i-a1a402b4a652cf18-1	Mr President, I would like to We are here to debate the Social Security Committee's report 21 on further alignment with the Dublin Regulation. I would like to begin by calling for the reservations contained in the report to be approved. Mr President, I would like to Contracts entered into should of course be respected, but the question is under which circumstances a party alone should continue to comply with agreements that the other parties do not comply with. The fact that the Dublin Regulation is not being complied with in the way it was intended is quite clear. The principle behind the Dublin Regulation – that anyone in need of protection should be able to seek it and get it as soon as they are in a safe place – we Swedish Democrats fully support it. After all, we are the party which, for the longest time and with the greatest clarity, has pointed this out: help should be given as early as possible to those in need. It is not worthy that people should continue to flee longer than necessary or that people should continue to migrate because they do not receive a dignified reception in countries that can offer them protection. Mr President, I would like to Nevertheless, the fact that we have had very high reception rates in our small country far up in northern Europe, far away from conflicts and crises in the world, suggests that this principle has certainly not been followed. This fact suggests that the ideas underlying the right of asylum, the Dublin Regulation and the principle of seeking asylum in the first country have completely lapsed. These thoughts no longer apply. They're being exploited by criminals. They are exploited by countries that do not want to take their responsibilities in a race to the bottom to induce people to move on. They are exploited by gangs who, in turn, exploit people who have no other choice. They are also exploited by those who, aware of the rules, choose countries to apply for asylum in and who move on from safe countries by not registering or contacting authorities, to finally – often – land in our small country. Mr President, I would like to It may seem reasonable – and it may seem a trivial technicality – that Swedish law should be adapted to the agreements we have entered into through membership of the European Union. But as long as the other countries do not comply with these agreements, it is not reasonable that we should tie ourselves in in an attempt to stand up alone for principles that no one else stands up for. The fact that the Dublin Regulation is no longer being complied with and is not sustainable is clear to the whole of Europe. At the moment, as we all know, extensive discussions are taking place on what will apply in the future. A solution is far away, and it will take time. I hardly believe that is possible, but quite apart from that it is a fact that what is on paper today is not being followed and is not working. The proposal which forms the basis of the report, which deals precisely with adaptation to the current Dublin regulation, is putting forward proposals which will further increase the incentives to move on to Sweden. These proposals will make it even more difficult for us to ensure that the Dublin Regulation – or at least the principle behind it – is complied with, by making it easier to appeal and easier to slow down the enforcement of so-called transfers. The proposals make it easier to slow down the enforcement of measures resulting from the fact that persons who have been in another EU country – persons who have applied for asylum or registered there and who are going to have their application examined in that country – have, after all, made their way to our country. These persons will be transferred back to the country where they will have their application examined, but with the proposal included in the bill this will be made more difficult. There are far too few transfers already today. Sweden is already carrying a burden that is not reasonable. Today, we are already following a regime that creates migration and does not benefit people on the run or the countries that are going to deal with it. Those who benefit are those who deliberately choose to reject existing regulations. That is why, Mr President, we are calling for the proposal to be rejected, although we might think it is a trifle to comply with the agreements that we have signed. Although we have signed them, the others who have signed them have already broken the agreements.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-15	Mr President, I would like to Today we are dealing with the issue of further alignment of Swedish law with the Dublin Regulation. The background to the issue is that the European Parliament and the Council adopted the revised Dublin Regulation in 2013. I would like to ask for approval of the proposal 2016/ 17:150 Further alignment of Swedish law with the Dublin Regulation. I would therefore also like to support the proposal in report 2016/ 17:SfU21. Before entering into the details of the new regulation in this proposal, I think it is reasonable for us to take a step backwards. What is this really about? Basically, this is about whether we believe that migration is an issue in which Europe's countries must cooperate or whether we believe that alone is strong. As a social democrat, I feel confident that alone is not strong on these issues and that we will manage migration better in Europe if we cooperate. That is also the starting point for this proposal. The purpose of the Dublin Regulation when it came into being was to determine in a clear and practicable way which Member State is responsible for examining an asylum application submitted. A key principle of the Regulation was that an asylum application should be examined by a single Member State. The revised Dublin Regulation has a wider scope and includes, inter alia, specific procedural safeguards for unaccompanied minors, provisions on detention and provisions on the exchange of information between Member States. This is good, although the impact on Swedish law is less than it is in many other European countries. Article 27 states, inter alia, that there shall be a right to review in court as regards transfer decisions. The Regulation provides for three options for Member States. The first is to allow the appeal to mean that the person has the right to remain in the country during the review. The second is that it provides for automatic suspension of the transfer – in such cases, a court must decide whether to grant the appeal. The third is to allow the person concerned to request, within a reasonable period of time, that a court suspend the enforcement of the transfer decision pending the outcome of the appeal. Since the third option leads to the fastest enforcement and, furthermore, it is most similar to the current system in Sweden, this is the most reasonable option. That is also the option proposed by the government. Some parties believe that it is consistent to pursue a serious policy of simply ignoring the EU regulation. Of course it is not. We are in the EU, and that is good for Sweden. As a serious party to EU cooperation, it is also natural to live up to the agreements we have signed. Since the refugee crisis in 2015, the Commission has presented a new proposal for a regulation. It is excellent and is well in line with what the Prime Minister, for example, has said, in short, that Europe's countries should share responsibility for migration. Despite the fact that the regulation is being revised, it is a wise policy to adopt this proposal, because the proposal advocates the solution which has the fastest enforcement and the most effective solution and which also gives the asylum seeker the fastest opportunity to have his case examined. I'm in favour of the bill.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-29	Mr President, I would like to I'm not gonna get bored. However, I noted when I read through the bill that the government has chosen the option closest to the current system, that is to say that a transfer is carried out as soon as there is evidence that it is another country that will handle the asylum application. The option that could be called the minimum level in the EU has been chosen. It is good that for once you follow what you have said and promised the Swedish population, to lie down at such a level that it should not be unnecessarily beneficial to get to Sweden. However, the fact that people choose to apply for asylum in Sweden itself proves that the Dublin Regulation has not been complied with. None of Sweden's neighbours are in a crisis situation. None of Sweden's neighbours is in such a situation that we will be the first country of asylum. There is talk of the possibility of taking the flight hi t. If you can get on a plane and get all the way up to us in an orderly way, you have been in some kind of security before, and that is also where you should have been helped. It is often said by the EU and by the other parties in this House about the refugee crisis and the refugee situation in the world that it is Europe that is going to solve the situation, such as Europe alone being responsible and being the only place on earth where security can be achieved. That is certainly not the case. I wonder how long one intends to keep alive a policy that ultimately affects people in urgent need by not providing assistance directly where it is needed to ensure that people reach safety.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-34	Mr President, I would like to As a starting point, I think we can see that we are approaching the issues of European cooperation and migration from different angles. As Paula Bieler knows, the Social Democrats are the party that has for a long time ensured that Sweden has world-class aid. The Swedish Democrats have been opposed for a long time, so trying to claim that it is Swedish democratic policy to stand up for a high level of aid is actually coming forward. Unlike most Swedish democrats, I believe in Sweden and in the values that Sweden is built up on. Sweden is a small, export-dependent country benefiting from trade. Our country benefits from exchanges, and our country benefits from cooperation. This, together with values such as freedom and equality, are keys to Swedish prosperity. In this context, Europe is important, because what this issue is actually about is whether we want more or less cooperation. Paula Bieler says that the Dublin Regulation does not apply. It is true that there are some countries in Europe, often governed by parties with similar ideological starting points as the Swedish Democrats, who do not comply with the Dublin Regulation. But most countries comply with the Dublin Regulation. Then the question is: What is the solution of the Swedish Democrats in the future? My view is that Sweden should continue along this path, which is about pursuing a serious migration policy that is in line with it in the rest of Europe, but we will also follow agreements that have been concluded. It's good for Sweden, and it's good for the Swedes.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-40	Mr President, I would like to That was a lot of talk but a little answer to the concrete question. The question I asked was why and how long you intend to keep alive a system that actually affects those in need. It was not long ago that there was a report from the UN that, among those landing on the Italian shores, who have crossed the Mediterranean, less than 3% have asylum grounds. It has been discovered that in refugee camps close by, where people can seek emergency protection for themselves and their immediate family, we cannot ensure that they are fed and that they have a life that may not be worthy in the way that we intend with dignity but sufficient to survive and then be able to pursue themselves through resettlement programmes. That is our way forward. It has been our way forward for a long time to invest in helping where aid is needed, to invest in ensuring the survival of people in emergency situations. Then allow migration to increase welfare to be organised and arranged through visa applications, through resettlement systems and through classic applications for residence permits in advance. Let us be honest: no one at Sweden's borders is fleeing for their lives. There is no one at Sweden's borders who will be killed right there and then. That's where you're safe. The policies of Sweden, the European Union and the Western world do not help those who flee for their lives. It is clear that we want to help those we see close to us, but the policies that have been pursued by some countries in order to calm their consciences have hit those most in need. It has made it profitable to take dangerous roads in search of a better life rather than guaranteeing lives for those who need it.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-44	Mr President, I would like to Yes, Paula Bieler, of course you can say that it's a lot of talk, but let's go back and think about what this issue is actually about. Well, it is about the extent to which we want to comply with EU law or not and to what extent we think it is good for Sweden to stand up for the agreements we have entered into. That is what the question is about. It is not about migration policy in general, but about which way Sweden should take when it comes to keeping agreements. We Social Democrats have been clear on migration policy. We will ensure that Sweden does not end up where we ended up in 2015 by having a regulatory framework that does not differ significantly from that in the rest of Europe. We Social Democrats have also, unlike the Swedish Democrats, worked on proposals linked to a quota system, which means that there are legal ways into Europe for people fleeing for their lives. Another difference is that you want to break agreements. Your policy would destroy Sweden's reputation. It is by no means reasonable to turn Sweden into some form of European outcast country, such as Poland, Hungary and other countries governed by politicians with similar ideological residences as the Swedish Democrats. Breaking agreements is bad for our trade, bad for our reputation and bad for our migration policy. In short, it is bad for Sweden and bad for the Swedes.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-49	Mr President, I would like to I shall begin by calling for the committee's proposal to be approved. Although I cannot formally do so on behalf of the other alliance parties, I know that if they had taken part in the debate, they would also have voted in favour of the proposal. This may not be the most exciting report in the world, but it concerns one of the most central parts of the EU's common migration policy. Let me first put this into a slightly broader perspective. According to UNHCR, 65 million people were on the run in 2016. To give a picture of the scale, Britain, France and Thailand each have 65 million inhabitants. So it is as if the entire population of France were on the run. In contrast, the EU received 1.3 million, which corresponds to the population of Estonia. In 2016, Sweden received 29,000 asylum seekers. These figures lead me to draw two conclusions. One is that when comparing the number of asylum seekers to Sweden in 2015 versus 2016, with 163 000 and 29 000 respectively, I can see that the measures that Sweden introduced with border control and transporter responsibility show that in the short term we can only trust ourselves. Pending the EU's proper shouldering of the migration role, I believe that the temporary best thing would be to return to 1 May 1958 and the Nordic Passport Union. The internal passport control within the Nordic countries ended, and a common Nordic border control was maintained at the external border of the Nordic countries. But in the longer term and when we see the refugee situation in the world, it is only the European Union that has the greatness to manage the refugee flows in the long term. Let us return more specifically to today's report after this digression. The Dublin Regulation has two main functions. The most obvious and most widely discussed is how we distribute asylum seekers between Member States, that is, which state is responsible for assessing the need for protection. It is the country that has taken most of the asylum seeker's entry or, more simply, the country that the asylum seeker first arrived in the EU. In this first country, the asylum seeker is to be registered, and that country is then responsible for the asylum investigation. The second function is the other side of the State's responsibility: to conduct an asylum investigation. It is the asylum seeker's right to have his or her case tried. An asylum seeker should not risk being sent back and forth between two countries pointing fingers at each other and saying: you are responsible. The Dublin Regulation, which is based, among other things, on registration in the first EU country, has not worked well. We in the Alliance have pushed for a redeployment mechanism, that is, a redistribution that will automatically enter into force without specific political decisions. This should be seen in the light of the political decision to reallocate 160 000 following the refugee crisis in 2015 and where until February this year only 12 000 of the 160 000 have been reallocated. An automatic mechanism is therefore preferable to individual policy decisions. An automatic mechanism shall be supplemented by the cost of failing to behave. If you do not comply with EU rules, it will have economic consequences. On this issue, we are shooting the government ahead of us. Now the government is slowly starting to pursue this line in the negotiations. It is this redistributive mechanism that has caused a complete halt in the negotiations on the Dublin Regulation. There are indications that the current regulation will soon change. Why, then, make minor adjustments to the present one, thus calling for rejection of the bill? The issue is relevant, but given that the negotiations on the Dublin Regulation have been stalled, I think it will take some time. The proposed change is about improving legal certainty but also about maintaining the effectiveness of the enforcement of the Dublin Regulation. The Member States had three options to choose from, and the report proposes what is most similar to the practice already in place in Sweden.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-65	Mr President, I would like to This bill is based on the migration policy agreement concluded between the government, the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats in autumn 2015. In short, it means that the number of parental benefit days is adjusted according to the child's age at the time of residence in Sweden. Children who come to Sweden with their parents are entitled to 480 days if the child becomes resident in Sweden before the first anniversary, 200 days if the child becomes resident before the second anniversary and 100 days if the child becomes resident after the second anniversary. The aim is to strengthen the driving forces for work and self-sufficiency so that more new arrivals can enter the labour market. At the same time, the Moderates have, following the agreement, put forward further proposals for restrictions on the possibility of collecting parental benefit for those who lack sickness benefit-based income. In view of this, we support the proposal, since it is part of the migration agreement, and we ask for our own reservation to be accepted with further proposals. Mr President, I would like to Foreign born have a weaker position in the labour market. The poverty trap that many foreign-born women find themselves in, in particular, cannot be accepted and must be combated by ensuring that more people get into work and their own livelihoods. Foreign born women currently have an employment rate of 23 percentage points lower than that of native women. Overall, one in ten people born abroad receive financial assistance while only one in one hundred natives receive it. For those who have not yet entered the labour market, it is crucial that it is easy to leave children in preschool and that the driving forces to look for work are clear. Long periods of absence from the labour market, for example by combining benefits and parental benefit at basic level, lead to higher job thresholds and an increased risk of long-term exclusion. In order to strengthen the work line for those with long-term dependency on benefits, a switch between parental benefit and increased preschools for those living on benefits is required. Therefore, we in the Moderates in the 2017 budget exercise have proposed that parental benefit at basic level, i.e. for those who do not have earned income, is limited to 365 days. At the same time, we have proposed extending the right to free preschools to 30 hours for children of parents living on subsistence support. With a more generous preschool and shorter time with parental allowance, the requirement to make themselves employable should increase for people with income support. This can be done, for example, through wider job seekers, participation in SFI teaching or other educational activities. Mr President, I would like to The Swedish labour market faces historically major challenges. Several thousand have in recent years come to Sweden and been granted a residence permit here. Many of them lack language skills, education, contacts and many times previous work experience. Jobs and self-sufficiency can protect them from the exclusion they risk ending up in as new residents of a country that they do not know, a country that is in many ways unfamiliar and alien to them. Jobs and self-sufficiency can lead them into society and protect them from exclusion. Job and self - support can provide them with an opportunity to control their own life, their own existence and their own future. It is therefore important that the work line be restored, that demands be made for employability and that it should always pay off from contributions to work.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-76	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Social Security Committee's report Restrictions on parental benefit for parents who come to Sweden with children. I believe, however, that we are debating something much larger, and I will come to that in due course. With the bill on which this report is based, the government wants to restrict access to parental insurance for people who are in Sweden for various reasons. At first glance, it makes sense, and against the present system it is an improvement. But an improvement from catastrophicly stupid and bad to just very strange and stupid is an improvement that at least I find difficult to applaud. Mr President, I would like to It's all connected. Parental allowance is also part of the major contemporary problem of Swedish welfare versus Swedish migration policy. That's why I'm going to go into the big picture for a while. There are many people in the current wave of migrants and earlier that have originally, previously, fled from war and great danger. There's no talk of it. However, it is a fact that very few migrants decide to cross the border and seek asylum in Sweden because there is war in the country where they are. There's no such thing. There's no one to do that. This is because it is not war in either Denmark, Poland, Germany, Norway or any other neighbouring country, nor in many other European countries that these migrants usually pass on their way to Sweden. Here we have a nut to crack for many in this House. If it is not war where you are, why do you choose not to make yourself known and seek asylum instead to travel through a number of safe countries and cross the border to Sweden? Why is the pressure of migrants particularly great on our country? Is it the weather– can it be rain, snow and, in relative terms, exceptional cold that attracts? Or is it something else? Of course, you have to believe what you want about that. I, for my part, believe that what attracts us is our generous and undemanding welfare system, at least to a very large extent. And at least part of the current parental allowance is part of this undemanding welfare system. I would like to make an addition, because experience tells me that I should be particularly clear to this House: no, it is not a question of pointing out any group as a snitch or villain. It is about an understanding of how people with scarce resources act on the basis of given conditions. It is not the migrants who come to Sweden and burden welfare in different ways that I point my finger to. These people act in full understanding and humaneness. I point to Sweden's system, to you and to your naive and on the verge of infantile views on migration and welfare. It is your fault that it looks like it does in Sweden today. None of the other parties in this House is blameless. Facit is right here in front of us. We've seen it. You've seen it. The voters have seen it. The common idea of mass immigration and multiculturalism of the other parties proved to be just as thorough as my party pointed out almost 30 years ago. Mr President, I would like to It is of course the right of every Swedish politician to be in favour of completely free migration, that is, to advocate that anyone who could raise their standard of living by moving to Sweden also has the right to do so. But then I think you should say it straight out and let the voters know what you think. Then I think you should stop pretending that what you're doing is helping people escape from war, because it's not. It's not true, it's actually the other way around. The government is even taking money from the aid to pay for the joint, fatal failure of the government and other parties with migration here at home in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to The migration chaos that we have experienced and experienced is due to the laxity and naivety of Sweden's governments. Instead of this sad situation, we would have been able to help many more fleeing people and at the same time avoid the sad consequences that your policy has had for Sweden if you had just listened. And it is not enough for the Prime Minister to state loudly that you have all been naive when he himself, his party and all the other parties continue to be so. The attitude of the Swedish democrats is clear. Swedish welfare is created by and exists for Swedish citizens and, where appropriate, people who are in Sweden and who work for their livelihood. Of course, no human being who has the right to reside in Sweden should be left to his fate. Everyone should be guaranteed roof over head, food on the table, medicine for the children and so on, to sum up briefly. To this end, the Swedish Democrats want to introduce means-tested support, but I will not go into that in detail now. When it comes to parental benefit, which is the subject of the day, the Swedish Democrats want the part based on previous sickness benefit-based income to be available also to those living in Sweden temporarily or who have not yet become Swedish citizens. It is reasonable that those who contribute to a system can also use the system, regardless of their nationality. When it comes to parental benefit at basic and minimum levels, i.e. compensation that is not based on previous work, we want it to be reserved for Swedish citizens. This brings several important advantages: Children who come to Sweden and are old enough to attend preschool do not get stuck in the home longer than necessary and will therefore absorb both language and culture much faster than otherwise. Adults who have come to Sweden with children who do not require care at home can start their studies more quickly in Swedish and social sciences or, where appropriate, their jobseekers. The authorities responsible for migrant studies and job seekers have a better overview, and people who need different measures do not have to be hidden in the statistics as parental leave. Another consequence of a more indirect nature is that, with our proposal, in cases where one parent has entered the labour market and the other does not have it, the parent who has a previous income can be on parental leave, while the person who most needs time on the school bench or working life will have the opportunity to do so. Mr President, I would like to Allow me to play the fortune teller. In the future, Sweden's entire social security system will be reformed so that it will cease to be a lure for economic migrants and become sustainable in the long term. In a theoretical world where the Swedish Democrats have no influence in the future, this reform will be carried out by the other parties, simply because it is the only reasonable thing if you want to maintain a stable welfare state. Having said that, I would like to endorse the S verige democrats' reservation 3 in the report and to thank the President and all those who have listened.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-95	Mr President, I would like to I will stick to the report, which is entitled Limitations on parental allowance for parents who come to Sweden with children, and I would like to start by asking for our reservation. I will be very brief. In substance, there is reason to think that the changes are possible or reasonable. On the other hand, I think it is deeply unfortunate that it will be a special solution for parents who come to Sweden with children, when there is a sitting inquiry – the "U" about modern parental insurance – who will present their final report in October this year. Unfortunately, it has taken so much time in terms of investigation that we will see how good the investigation as a whole will be, but it will take a grip on parental insurance to make it modern. We find it unfortunate that a special solution is chosen. A pitiful thing in this context is that parents who come to Sweden with children over two years of age receive an individualised, i.e. a two-part, parental insurance. We in the Left Party think that is very good and something that should apply to everyone. I would like to point out that this is not bad in itself, but we do not like this particular solution. This has also been recognised by the government in its proposal. When you look at the reasons why you have broken out and gave a partial report to the investigation, which has ended in this report, you see that these are rather cloudy reasons why you want to make this particular solution. This is also part of the Migration Agreement, which the Left Party does not support. Mr President, I would like to I shall confine myself to this and call for our reservation and rejection of the committee's proposal.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-101	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the Social Security Committee's SfU23 report, which deals with restrictions on parental benefit for parents who come to Sweden with children. The Christian Democrats, of course, support the current proposal to restrict the right to parental benefit for parents who settle in Sweden with children aged two or over. This limitation is part of the migration policy agreement concluded in October 2015 between the Christian Democrats, the other alliance parties and the government. We intend to implement what we have agreed. In short, the proposal means that parents of children who are older than two years old when the family settles in Sweden should not receive as many days with parental allowance as parents of children who are less than two years old. Parental insurance is primarily intended to be used during children's first years of life, and that is also how insurance is used today. During their first two years of life, parents spend on average 348 of the total 480 parental allowance days. On the basis of these facts, it is neither reasonable nor fair for parents who settle in Sweden with older children to receive as many days with parental allowance as parents with new-born children. It is therefore a good thing that this overcompensation is regulated with the present proposal. At the same time, the Christian Democrats are opposed to the proposal to limit parental allowance for parents who come to Sweden with children who are only one year old, in addition to what was included in the migration agreement. We believe that children who have not yet reached the age of two are to be regarded as very small and therefore in great need of their parents for care and association. Therefore, there should also be great flexibility so that parents can decide for themselves how much of the time they want to care for their children. In its referral to the bill, the Swedish Children's Association emphasises that parental insurance is primarily intended for children to be able to develop close and good contact with safe care workers. According to his referral, the Ombudsman for Children lacks a clearer focus on children and reasoning from a child perspective in the proposal. The Agency for Family Law and Parental Support points out in its referral that the proposed limitation rule provides less scope for adaptation to the needs of each individual child, as the number of days of parental benefit decreases. It cannot be surprising to anyone that the Christian Democrats believe that this is particularly important in the case of the smallest children. For this reason, I request the approval of reservation 4. So we do not think that any limitation should be made on the number of days for children older than one year but less than two years old. However, this does not mean that the Christian Democrats do not take seriously the difficult integration problems facing Sweden. First of all, we are doubtful that restrictions on parental benefit for parents who come to Sweden with children as young as one year could have a powerful effect on the rate of establishment of newly arrived women who are going into the Swedish labour market. The proposal shows, among other things, that the Public Employment Service believes that it is difficult to assess the extent to which a restriction on the right to paid parental leave will accelerate participation in the establishment and establishment of the labour market and in society for newly arrived parents. According to the bill, parents who come to Sweden with very young children seem to take out fewer parental benefit days than expected, as they do not apply for parental benefit at all. We therefore believe that limiting the number of parental benefit days for parents who settle in Sweden with children as young as one year old risks leading to the fact that it is mainly women who are at home with the children, but then without compensation and therefore outside the social security system. We believe that this is a worse situation. Mr President, I would like to I commend our reservation 4.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-117	Mr President, I would like to Swedish parental insurance is one of the finest parts of Swedish welfare – smart and future-oriented social engineering. It is not every day that one can stand in this Chamber and explain very clearly and simply what problem one sees and wants to solve and how one imagines it to be done concretely. Today, however, is the day when we are debating the report on restrictions on the right to parental benefit for parents who come to Sweden with children. The draft law means that parents who come to Sweden with children are entitled to 480 days with parental benefit if the child becomes resident in Sweden before the age of one year, to 200 days if the child becomes resident in Sweden during the second year of life and to 100 days if the child becomes resident in Sweden after his second year of life. Mr President, I would like to The proposal contained in the report is an important step in removing the overcompensation that parents who come to Sweden today receive for older children. At the same time, we know that the possibility of long-term parental benefit for an older child can help to delay the establishment of parents in the labour market. It counteracts the ambition of parents to participate in preparatory work that can bring them closer to the labour market, while it often means that the children who come here to Sweden have less opportunity to participate in preschool and the development that it entails linked to the preparatory school section, language development and the opportunity to have a daily life together with others. The law means that parents who come to Sweden will receive the corresponding number of parental benefit days that Swedes have on average. So there is a clear similarity. That's what the investigation investigated. It really becomes a simple model that means that if you come here to Sweden you get an equal number of days as the corresponding Swedish has if a child is newborn, if a child is one year old and if a child is two years old. I think that's wise. It is good for the children, and it is good for the parents, who also have a greater opportunity to establish themselves in the labour market. We know that one of the most important measures for children to have a good childhood is that parents have a job. At the same time, this allows parents to adapt to the child's needs and good opportunities to combine parenthood and working life. The law will apply to all parents who come to Sweden with children. EU citizens are already adapting and will not be subject to the same regulatory framework. For them, they are already adapting to the legislation they have in different EU countries. I support the proposal contained in the Social Security Committee's report 23.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-126	Mr President, I would like to Swedish parental insurance is really something to be proud of. It is an insurance policy that looks both at the child's best interests and at the child's need to have a close and strong relationship with his or her parents and that contributes to our having a high birth rate combined with a high labour market participation of women – that is, one of the world's most equal labour markets in this way. Parental insurance plays a role in people's willingness to move back to Sweden. People who have chosen to study abroad and found love elsewhere may choose to come back when they have children. It is known here that it is possible to combine a family life with a working life regardless of the gender of the parents. Mr President, I would like to Having said that, I would strongly reject the simplified rhetoric of the Swedish democrats that people on the run would choose to come to Sweden only because of parental insurance. Sweden is a country where anyone who has come here, on the run or for other reasons, can enter society and create a good life for themselves and their children. Of course, part of this is our well-thought-out social security systems, as well as working actively against discrimination and having a well-functioning labour market. Right now we have more people working than we have been measured in a very long time. I think this is important because people see Sweden as a country that is not only safe and free from war but also a place where you can build your future – just as people who have previously come here from Finland, former Yugoslavia, etc. have been able to do so. They come and build our country stronger. What the Swedish Democrats are talking about as a failure is not about us building such a good country that people are happy here and want to move back here after studying abroad. Instead, the failure consists of the inability of the international community to prevent war, drought, the consequences of climate change in the form of natural disasters, etc. But that is not what the Social Security Committee's report 23 is really about, Mr President, although it is part of the fundamental and major debate that is taking place in our society today about which Sweden we want. Mr President, I would like to I want a Sweden where anyone who comes here with children can feel safe and have the time needed, both for the parent and the child, when the child is small. I also want a Sweden where all women, regardless of when they came to Sweden, have the opportunity to establish themselves in the labour market. Having a job to do and having a self-sufficiency through work is still a cornerstone for equality and for women's independence for the rest of their lives. Mr President, I would like to I am pleased that Tina Ghasemi from the Moderates took a strong starting point in what one might call the work line, because something that has worried me during this term of office is that the Moderates have a little let go of the work line in relation to women with children. I am referring back to our debates on the custody allowance, in which the Moderates argued, on the contrary, that it is important for women to be given poor financial conditions and incentives to work through the custody allowance of SEK 3 000. I hope that the Moderates will let go of the outdated proposal, Mr President, and agree with the rhetoric that Tina Ghasemi made today. The proposal we are debating today, Mr President, is about adapting parental insurance so that parents who move to Sweden with children who are over one or two years old receive a number of parent's days corresponding to the average of a parent whose children lived here already at birth. This will lead to women entering the labour market earlier. At the same time, I think that the proposal is balanced also from the second perspective, that is, the child's ability to get a safe start with his parents. Unlike the Christian Democrats, I think it is a good suggestion that children follow the average even when they are over one year old, and I think that the reasoning is not really connected when the Christian Democrats are in favour of this when it comes to children who are over two years old but not when it comes to children who are over one year old. However, I would like to thank the Christian Democrats for highlighting in their reservation an adjacent and other important issue, namely the opportunity for women who are on parental leave – and who should and should be on parental leave – to learn Swedish through SFI education. This is an issue that the government has also highlighted and considers important. It is important that those on parental leave also have the opportunity to take advantage of the Swedish language as early as possible. With those words, Mr President, I am in favour of the proposal contained in the report.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-137	Mr President, I would like to I do not know how clear you have to be in a speech to get what you mean. My speech is available on Parliament's website and certainly also on Youtube in the future. I was very clear in my speech, and we are always careful to stick to the facts. This is a small part, as I also pointed out in my speech, of a Swedish welfare model which in many parts is undemanded, and that is a very bad thing. It's a bait. That then parental insurance is a small part, we can agree on. I also do not know what Annika Hirvonen Falk means by taking up returning Swedes who have been abroad for studies. As far as I am aware, it is very rare to give up citizenship in Sweden if you study abroad for a while and maybe meet someone and have children. Then you are a Swedish citizen, and nothing is affected by our proposal on this matter at all. When it comes to self-sufficiency and women's position in the labour market, that is exactly what we want to get at with the proposal we have, that is, that people who come to Sweden should get out into society – in studies and in the world of work – as quickly as possible. This is very much the case with women, because it is women who are more locked into the home than men in this case because of the welfare systems we have. I wonder how this is actually viewed. Is it a coincidence that people choose Sweden, even though they have to get through large parts of Europe in order to get here at all? Is it a coincidence, or could it be because of something else?
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-142	Mr President, I would like to The fact that I am talking about both Swedish citizens who come to Sweden with children and citizens from other countries who choose to move to Sweden is because our policy is about both of these groups. Our proposal does not distinguish whether the person in question is a Swedish citizen or not. We do not think that parental insurance should make a difference to whether the child is born of a person with a Swedish citizenship or another country's citizenship. I think that is a very clear and fundamental difference between the policy of the Swedish Democrats and the policy that I think all the other parties here have expressed – at least on this issue. It is a rather complex question what are the reasons why many people choose to settle in Sweden. First of all, when we talk about refugees, it is basically a question of many people being forced to flee. I am concerned about the developments we have in the world, not least that climate change – which has droughts and natural disasters as a result – is forcing more and more people to flee. However, as I also said in my speech, Sweden is a fantastic country where people can have a chance at a good life. They can enter society, contribute and have their own livelihood and a future for their children. There's nothing I want to change. I don't want to make Sweden worse just because nobody wants to live here.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-146	Mr President, I would like to You have to look at this with sober eyes. If there was endless money, every person would want to see that all people on earth had a lot more resources and so on, but that's not how it works. Our social security system is not infinite, and we cannot burden it in any way. Instead, the responsibility is to manage it in a way that is sustainable in the long term, and then it is not good enough to have free immigration and free access to welfare. It just doesn't work. When it comes to people fleeing war, it is about 2%, as Paula Bieler so well pointed out. Measurements of 3% have been made on the Italian coast, for example. But we don't have to hang on to that number. It is far from everyone who escapes from war, and when you run through Europe to Sweden you are definitely economic migrants, not refugees – that's what you stop being when you get to a safe place. We have to agree on this, because it is a fact. I wonder if the Green Party understands that the system we have will collapse if it is not managed. There won't be. Is it responsible? Do you understand the problem of having this view of migration versus welfare? I'd love to hear some kind of developing answer to that.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-149	Mr President, I would like to If we had so much wealth in the world that no man had to be poor, we would of course want everyone to have a good time," says Linus Bylund in his speech. Mr President, I would like to There are resources in the world for people to have food for the day, clean water and medical care. In fact, more people have had access to this in recent years. But there are also more people on the run than for a very long time. In this situation, the Swedish democrats want to build higher walls. They want to make a difference between those who settle in Sweden with small children and are Swedish citizens and those who settle in Sweden and receive a permanent residence permit but are not Swedish citizens. This clearly illustrates how the ideological fundamental view differs from one party to another. The Green Party wants a well-functioning welfare system. We see that this is possible – and historically it has gone – to combine with people going to Sweden to work here or come here on the run. Just look at how well the people who came to Sweden in the 90s from former Yugoslavia have succeeded! They've built our country stronger. We are doing this at the same time as we are one of the world's humanitarian powers, with generous aid and a climate responsibility that is necessary in the long term.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-153	Mr President, I would like to I took this opportunity to take a line when the Green Party discussed the custody allowance. It doesn't happen very often these days. The very idea of the custody allowance is that the parents and families themselves should be able to decide how to create the necessary contact between parents and children. I think the Green Party and I are quite in agreement on that picture. The proposal that has been put forward creates the problem that you as a family are not given the opportunity to create this contact in the way you wish. That is why we say no to limiting this from one year of age. We think that the migration agreement that exists is perfectly acceptable when it comes to the time from two years onwards. We think, like many referral bodies, such as the Swedish Medical Association and the Ombudsman for Children, that the child perspective is lacking in this proposal. The children's perspective is for me to be able to create opportunities for children to develop close and good contacts with the people who are close – parents or other people. This is also the way to create safe people. With this proposal, I believe that this possibility will be made more difficult for these children, and that is why we reject it. We do not think this is an outdated approach. We think this is in the same line as the custody allowance. We want to create opportunities for parents and families themselves to decide how to make children safe and good citizens in Sweden. It is not the Riksdag that should do so.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-157	Mr President, I would like to I think that this proposal very well takes into account the child's perspective – on the one hand the need for the child to have a close and good relationship with his parents or other caretakers during the first time in life, on the other hand the importance of the child growing up in a family where the parents have a job and not in a family characterised by poverty. Child poverty has increased in Sweden. It is a major problem, and the most important thing to get to grips with this is to ensure that parents have a job to go to. Gender equality is also an important issue, including from a children's perspective. Children in Sweden will grow up in equal families. What I do not understand about the Christian Democrats' objection is why it is right and reasonable for children who become resident in Sweden after their two-year anniversary to have parental days corresponding to the average, while children who settle in Sweden after their one-year anniversary should have as many days as a newborn child. I think this escalation is very wise. Mr President, I would like to What I'm thinking is whether it's perhaps the Christian Democrats' ambition is that parents should generally be at home much longer than other parties think. Perhaps that is also what is causing the Christian Democrats to continue to be in favour of the custody allowance, which, thankfully, a majority in this House has abolished.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-160	Mr President, I would like to It is quite interesting that this discussion is being raised. Either you work, or you're poor when you get here. I showed in my speech that those who come to Sweden with children who are one year old stay at home with the children, regardless of whether social security gives them money or not. In fact, many of them do not know at all how to apply for that money, and that is why they are not in the social security system. We want to enable them to have the means to choose to be at home, just as Swedish families can. We believe that freedom of choice is important for parents. We do not think that we as politicians should decide how these children become the safe citizens that we think they need to be in the future. We think that freedom of choice is so important for parents that they should be able to decide for themselves. Why, then, do we feel it is important to keep them from one year of age? This is because the statistics show that 348 out of 480 parental days are taken before the age of two. Then we think it's quite reasonable that you have the same opportunity if you come with a one-year-old-- precisely to create this security. We believe that the introduction can be much better if you give the security from the beginning and then can make sure that you move on in life. Perhaps it will also help in schooling in the future. The difference between the Green Party and us is that we see freedom of choice as an opportunity for parents and family to create good and safe children, while you want to achieve this differently. We think we have the best solution.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-163	Mr President, I would like to Surely Larry Söder must be able to understand the link between child poverty and lack of work? It is basically through work that people support themselves and their children. If you do not have a job to go to or live on very little income from just one parent or on a child care allowance of SEK 3 000, as the Christian Democrats want, the risk of poverty is greater. Harder than that, that's not the connection. Since most people take out most of the parental days before the child's two-year anniversary, Larry Söder thinks that if the child moves to Sweden until the day before the two-year anniversary, you should get the full number of days. This reasoning may sound good, but what Larry Söder really thinks is that a child who has come to Sweden the day before his two-year-old's birthday will have as many parent's days as a newborn child. It is not entirely according to how the system is supposed to work. The system is intended, above all, to provide insurance during the first year of life of the child. With 200 days for a child who comes to Sweden after his one-year anniversary, I think we achieve exactly what most of us think is the intention of parental insurance. We may have different views on how important it is for parents to have freedom of choice to stay at home with their children until the children are three years old and the importance of women coming to work and to provide for themselves.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-167	Mr President, I would like to Today we are debating the SoU22 report on the Government's proposal for private health insurance in publicly funded health care. In the bill, the Government proposes that a provision should be included in the Health Act to ensure that care to insurance patients in publicly funded care can only be provided if the principles of human dignity, needs and solidarity are not ignored, i.e. that no one should be able to buy themselves past someone who has a greater need for health care. The Government also proposes that when the county councils leave it to someone else to perform healthcare, the agreement should contain conditions on those particular requirements. The proposal also proposes that the National Board of Health and Welfare should be tasked with monitoring the consequences of the proposed regulations. It is important to stress in this context that the proposal is not about banning private health insurance and that the proposal aims to clarify that the principles of priorities previously decided by Parliament must continue to apply. Mr President, I would like to The background to the Government's proposal is that the number of private health insurance policies has increased more than sixfold between 2000 and 2015. The very point of taking out a health insurance policy is that you should be able to get care more quickly. The care you receive is provided by private health care providers who often also perform care for county councils through agreements. Mr President, I would like to There is a clear risk that insurance patients may take precedence over the gender of private carers, who are basically publicly funded and whose activities are made up of tax revenue. A major problem today is the lack of transparency in these activities. We cannot therefore know whether and, if so, how many insurance patients may be received before others with greater and more extensive needs. The starting point for Swedish healthcare is that it should be given as needed and on equal terms for the entire population. Swedish healthcare enjoys a high level of confidence among the population, and the vast majority are committed to the principle of public funding. You give according to your abilities and you get according to your needs. If these principles start to be called into question and if you cannot feel sure that the care is provided as needed, our entire system risks how the care is to be provided and financed to crumble. It is also about confidence in the whole welfare system and the willingness to pay taxes. In the long run, it affects our whole society. Mr President, I would like to Today, 650 000 Swedes have health insurance. Most are financed by an employer. International studies show that if private health care funding increases, differences in health among the population also tend to increase. This is not an acceptable development for our country. There are already unacceptable differences in health and access to health care in the population. For the Red-Green Government, it is a priority to balance these differences so that everyone's right to good health and healthcare of the highest quality can be guaranteed. Several studies also show that Swedish healthcare is not currently organised to provide people with chronic illnesses or people with high health and care needs with the care they need. We need to work towards a development that counteracts it and puts the patient and patients' needs at the centre. More private-funded care does not stimulate such development, rather the opposite. We need to regulate and clarify the legislation that guarantees equal and demand-driven health care. We should be able to trust that it is the needs that govern our access to care and not the size of our wallet. Mr President, I would like to One important point of the proposals is to strengthen the democratic transparency of the use of public funds and the care providers report to the authorities how to organise their activities so that there is no uncertainty that insurance patients do not take precedence over patients with greater needs and thus at the expense of the public. The fact that the principles of human dignity, need and solidarity must be upheld is supported by most, almost all, consultation bodies. At the same time, however, many of the bodies point out that it is not sufficiently clear whether regulation is really needed or whether there is a lack of compliance by healthcare providers with the principle that the greatest need goes first so that patients with large needs are squeezed out. It is also the case that the Law Council does not support the proposal on this particular point. We Social Democrats, like the government, are aware that it is uncertain whether insurance patients are actually given priority to care. However, like the government, we believe that regulation and clarification of the law are needed so that we do not risk the development of a parallel healthcare system. We do not want to see our solidarity-based system of health care as needed and payment according to ability replaced in the long term by a system where it is the ability to pay that determines which care measures you receive. Mr President, I would like to We also believe that regulation is essential for maintaining trust and confidence in health care in the population. We regret that the bourgeois parties, including the Swedish Democrats, perceive things differently. I support our reservation and reject the committee's proposal in the report.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-181	Mr President, I would like to We are here today debating a hypothetical problem. Yes, you all heard right: a hypothetical problem. We should, of course, discuss today the real problems of health care. We have Europe's longest healthcare queues. We need to send our most sick children to neighbouring countries because of the lack of care places. More than 30,000 patients in surgical queues have waited longer than the 90 days of the healthcare guarantee. More than 8,000 nurses have chosen to leave care because of a poor working environment. The list of government shortcomings in health care can be made as long as completely. Instead, you put all the power on a bill that is not needed. I'm not the only one who thinks so. Several heavy consultation bodies believe that there is no need for legislation in this area as proposed in this proposal. It is already clear that patients with private health insurance cannot bypass the publicly funded care queue. This is clear from the legislation already in force. That is why, of course, there is no reason to introduce the Government's proposal. We base it on the following. The principle of human dignity, need and solidarity set out in the second paragraph of Section 2 of the Health Act applies to all healthcare services both public and private. That provision therefore also applies to health care within the framework of private health insurance. Even the Law Council rejects the proposal and believes that nothing indicates that the legislation is needed. Statskontoret, Vårdanalys och Vårdförbundet also consider that the evidence is flawed when it comes to analysing the actual need for the Government's proposal. Even the government itself has not presented any information showing that there would be any displacement effect in public health care as a result of private health insurance. Mr President, I would like to We Swedish democrats, like many of these consultation bodies, believe that the government has not been able to show that there is a displacement effect as a result of private health insurance. There is therefore no reason to legislate on this. Instead, the government's proposal may mean that the publicly funded care would lose out on performers. This could happen if those who currently carry out both public and private-funded care choose instead to only carry out care within the framework of private health insurance, which would mean even longer care queues and less accessibility. This is something that health care analysis has put forward in its referral, and it is concerns that we share. We also believe that there is a lack of analysis of the impact of the proposal on patients and citizens. Mr President, I would like to The big problem today is that people have so little confidence in health care that they feel the need to obtain private health insurance. The Swedish Agency for Health Care Analysis produced a report a while ago comparing healthcare in Sweden with healthcare in ten comparable countries. The result was disappointing. Only one third of Swedes believe that healthcare works well. As a result, Sweden is second to last among comparable countries, which is of course a major rejection of Swedish health policy. Instead, the focus of the policy debate should be on ensuring that there is a high-quality healthcare system with good accessibility to reduce the need for private health insurance, rather than tackling the presence of private health insurance. Instead of trying to address problems that do not exist, the government should consider why confidence in Swedish healthcare is so low and why so many citizens choose to obtain private health insurance to feel confident of access to available healthcare. As politicians, we should always look at the interests of the citizens, in this case of patients, before trying to solve a hypothetical problem based only on ideological positions. Finally, I would like to endorse our reservation 2.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-191	Mr President, I would like to Per Ramhorn talks about the government's work to improve the situation in Swedish healthcare and has said that all the effort is being put on this bill, which everyone can say is not true. We have quite a lot of debates before us in this House on how the government is putting forward proposals to improve health care in Sweden, not least here at the end of the semester before the summer. One might wonder whether Per Ramhorn has not taken note of what we are working on in the Committee on Social Affairs. Next week, I think, there will be a debate on, for example, cooperation between county councils and municipalities to improve the situation for the old ones and which we can hope for a lot. Are you going to stand on it or not? Per Ramhorn also uses a large part of his speaking time to say that this is a hypothetical problem and that it is already clear that there is no crowding-out effect in health care because of insure patients in private care providers with publicly funded funds. Why, then, do the Swedish democrats put a lot of effort into proposing a motion for this matter to be investigated? That's my question.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-195	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson, for the question! We have major problems in Swedish health care, as I said in my speech. There are long care queues and accessibility is poor. It goes without saying that patients with private health insurance should not be able to bypass publicly funded care queues. Of course, those with the greatest need should go first. This is clear in the current legislation and, as I said, it is part of the principles of human dignity, needs and solidarity in the Health Act. We are not the only ones who are critical of presenting this proposal. Heavy consultation bodies have also pointed out that this bill is not good and that there is no need for it. That is why we have the view that it is simply not needed.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-198	Mr President, I would like to We are very aware that the Riksdag has already made decisions on how priorities should be taken in healthcare and that care should be needs-driven. However, this bill is about clarifying the principles and avoiding the risks of increasing private health insurance. It is a driving force in itself that private health insurance continues to increase. I have to ask Per Ramhorn: does it not concern you and the Swedish Democrats that we are in danger of having a parallel healthcare system because of this? Do we not need to clarify this legislation and also make demands for follow-up and indeed this is the way it is? Do the Swedish Democrats know anything that we do not know? Have you seen an investigation that the law is being followed out in Sweden and that the private carers do not accept insurance patients at the expense of the public and thus crowd out those who have greater care needs? If the Swedish Democrats have a survey that we have not seen, then let us see it!
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-201	Mr President, I would like to Of course, when proposing legislation, thoroughness, wisdom and facts are required, and not a lot of hypothetical reasoning. Legislation is not just to push from the hip, because it is known that legislation affects patients, activities and staff out there in reality. That is why we need to be more careful than the government has been in this case. As we see it, this is not the first time that the government has tabled legislative proposals that not only I can interpret as haste. We all remember, for example, the question of the choice of care in primary care. The Law Council also rejected this preparation and made it clear that the Government's proposal was not good enough to form the basis for legislation. It's the same with this. We see time and again that heavy consultation bodies reject the proposal because it is not good enough. In this case, it is often from an ideological point of view.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-204	Mr President, audiences, viewers and listeners! The red-green feminist government, as you now all know, is working long-term and determinedly to develop and strengthen welfare policy. Children's groups are declining in preschool and we have 20,000 more adults in school now than when we started. Science is clear: the fossil society has pointed out and the green sustainable is taking over. We're moving towards a society where people are more important than the gadgets. The business community is on our side, and more and more companies are abandoning the short-term profit maximization approach and investing in sustainable solutions. Citizens switch from the pursuit of gadgets to more of quality, culture, friendship and education. A crucial difference between the so-called security of neo-liberal society and the security system of the green welfare society is that in the green model everyone has an equal right to secure welfare. In the neo-liberal construction of the alliance parties, the need for individual security and welfare solutions has become increasingly evident over the years. After eight years of neoliberal disarmament of the common welfare structure, it is now extremely clear what the dividing lines of Swedish politics look like. Beneficiaries of the major tax cuts, which during the alliance period changed government finances from a surplus of 70 billion to a deficit of 70 billion, can now increasingly build up individual security systems with these resources. Unfortunately, the whole idea of a community of solidarity is frowned upon. The construction of society in the 20th century – some may think it is an experiment, the experiment The Sweden of solidarity – is threatened. In the area by area, the short-term and egotistical thinking of greed penetrates and undermines what we all know is a prerequisite for success and development. Science is clear here too. Everyone is a loser when society drifts apart. No one benefits from increased gaps. And the biggest losers are the children when segregation increases. Mr President, I would like to Any one of us in this House may suffer health problems at any time. That is why we are all keen to have well-functioning health systems. We can never know when needs arise. This report is really about the draft battle for our common resources for health care. Today, as we have heard, some 650 000 people pay for private health insurance, in addition to the part that they and employers pay for public health care. It pays for private health insurance in the hope that it will thus gain more favourable access to health care. In reality, it is only those with the absolutely most expensive solutions, which provide the opportunity for care in completely private clinics, who can have some clear benefit from the insurance policies. For everyone else, the principle is that the person with the greatest need for care goes first, regardless of whether the individual has private insurance or not. This principle applies not only to public health, but also to the care provided by private carers through insurance, at least to those who have some form of agreement to carry out care financed from public funds. The principle as such is considered by all actors to be a basic principle of care work, regardless of funding. At least that is the picture that both private carers and insurance companies give us politicians. It is very strongly argued that the system of insurance patients does not have an evasive effect but that the principle that it is most needed can be maintained first. This means, for example, that if a very severely traumatized patient enters an emergency room, it is the damage that determines that patient takes precedence, not if the patient has an insurance policy or what insurance the patient has. Then one might wonder why political resistance is so great against the government's proposal that county councils should not be allowed to hand over any of their responsibilities within health care to private providers, but that in these agreements they undertake not to deviate from the principle that the health seeker with the greatest need should go first. At the same time, it is argued that this principle is being respected. If one claims to be a defender of the principle of human dignity, of the principle of need and of solidarity, of those patients most in need of care taking precedence, and if one also believes that one can handle it today, then what are the politicians concerned about? Could it be that something quite different is behind the compact opposition of the opposition parties? Is it perhaps the way the opposition parties really want those who can pay to get ahead of themselves to care to do so? That would be interesting to hear. Is there a difference there? An entirely different reason may be what the OECD shows in a report presented in the Government's report, namely that private health insurance schemes tend to increase demand for care. Is it the way the opposition side wants to build systems that increase healthcare demand? The OECD shows that the indirect impact of an increase in demand will be higher costs for healthcare. Does the opposition want healthcare costs to increase? Is it a conscious objective to increase costs, especially in areas where there is a shortage of resources? You might wonder. Private health insurance generally drives up the costs of healthcare, as the OECD also points out, contributing to an increasingly unequal treatment. Is it a goal of the opposition that care should become more unequal? In order to deal with the problems that arise when insurance patients are provided with care in public funds co-financed care, the OECD points out that action is needed, not least if the country has a desire to maintain the principle of care on equal terms. We do, don't we? At least everyone in this Chamber says that. When the proposal to secure the principle of solidarity was in the process of being consulted, it received strong support. Karolinska Institutet, Lund University, the University of Gothenburg and Umeå University as well as Smer, the Disability Associations and TCO are just a few examples of all who supported the proposal. The most common argument among those who were hesitant or opposed the proposal was precisely that it was not considered that there was a need for agreements to ensure the principle that is already working. It's a strange way of thinking, in my opinion. We have legislation in many areas where municipalities and county councils write in that the rules that already apply should apply. It's nothing weird. Rather, it is the normal way of dealing with it. A number of those who were critical, including the Västra Götaland region, nevertheless pointed out that there is a need for some form of regulation, because it is not possible to ignore the risk of unequal distribution of care due to insurance policies. That's how they put it in their referrals. I think there is a basis for taking this into account. The Government's report, which contains some arguments for this, also sets out mandates given by the European Commission to find out and find out how private health insurance policies affect publicly funded healthcare and its principles. The studies report, among other things, that there is no evidence that health insurance would reduce the pressure on public health care, as the advocates of insurance solutions often claim. According to the studies, there is therefore no evidence that it would ease the pressure on health care, as is claimed. The researchers also argue that there is some evidence, and thus some uncertainty, that the effect of insurance is a form of subsidy with public funds to those who have insurance. The report clearly states that in the societies where it is held and studied, those who are more well-off get faster access to and a higher proportion of public health resources through these insurance policies than the principle of care as needed. So there is a difference. There's some evidence for that. It must be concluded that without a regulatory framework that ensures that carers are obliged to comply with the principle – they not only accept the principle but are obliged to comply with it – if care is provided as necessary, there is a risk that the principle will be eroded if such a guarantee is not inscribed. It is regrettable that there seems to have been trolls on this issue, or is it perhaps prestige? It is a pity that the representatives of the opposition cannot take in the facts and listen to what is said in research, nor to those who are ultimately responsible for health care. I ask you to accept reservation 1.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-226	Mr President, I would like to Priorities in healthcare should be based on three principles. I think I have to repeat them in this room. It is about the principle of human dignity, that all people have equal value and the same right regardless of personal characteristics and functions in society. It is about the principle of need and solidarity, that resources should be allocated according to needs. And it is about the principle of cost-effectiveness. In choosing between different activities or actions, a reasonable relationship between costs and impacts, measured in terms of improved health and improved quality of life, should be sought. That's what this rests on. Instead, this is about the view of health care, whether one sees the growing influence of business and insurance companies as problematic, or whether one sees it as a revival wave, the private one that saves health care and shareholders, or whether one sees the growing influence of Swedish business and insurance companies as increasing inequality. Here we stand on completely different sides. You to the right – and here I include the Swedish Democrats nowadays – always fight for companies, for capital, for the richest, for those who have the best. I don't think you're naive. It is clear that you are protecting the interests of the companies and those who go shrimping through health care. I remember when we were in the United States on a committee trip. I hope you remember that, too. Not one of the study visits we made paid tribute to the privatised American health care system, not anywhere. Instead, they praised the equal Swedish health care system where you cannot buy yourself before in the queue. Through their insurance policies, 650 000 people slip ahead of the rest of us. It's not their fault. Most people take this opportunity through their union, through their employer or get the insurance paid if you are considered absolutely priceless. Instead, it is a system error. But a little modest limitation might have been in its place, I think, but not. If you read the referee, 70 percent are positive. They support the proposal or do not have any comments. It's 12 county councils that support. In today's health care, there is a trend towards confusion between publicly funded care and the services provided by insurance companies. It may upset confidence in publicly funded care and affect the individual patient. It's not the Left Party that says it. It's Smer, the National Council for Medical Ethics. The bourgeois parties and their friend Sweden Democrats talk a lot about equal health – it's a bit time to talk about it. But when it becomes a real workshop, you call the business community, healthcare companies and insurance companies – your allies in wet and dry. As soon as this proposal was presented by an article in Aftonbladet in August 2016, long before the Law Council had written its opinion, you were on the offensive against this as a spinal reflex. This bill that you are about to bring down today is not about banning health insurance, but about living up to the Health Act. It is the individual's state of health that determines the care effort, never the individual's ability to pay. A person who has a greater need for care should always be prioritised before a person with a smaller need for care, that's how it should be. It is not consistent with the principle of care as needed on equal terms that health insurance can buy for better quality and availability. That's exactly what's happening. The Left and the Government state, like the Law Council, that there is currently no investigation that has analysed this, and that is a weakness. If you'd been on your toes in your eight years, you might have done an investigation into it. There is a lack of transparency. It's like a secret locker that nobody knows anything about. When you're waiting for Sophiahemmet, for example, and you don't have insurance, you can think about something else. Insurance companies guarantee a start of treatment within 14 days. The county council, the public, guarantees the same within 90 days. There's a difference, guys. Do the doctors have different lists or how? How many 14-day patients do you take in? You can think about that. Here we need to be a little preventive, and we have tried to be. Most private health care providers also receive publicly funded county council patients. The result is that those who have insurance go ahead, but you see no risk with that system that there will be a parallel healthcare system that puts patients whose care is publicly funded at a disadvantage in relation to patients with health insurance. Can it really be true that the public benefits from private health insurance? Why is this argument put forward by the Confederation of Swedish Enterprise? Well, that's a question. In each country there is a limited range of health care resources: health centres, hospitals, doctors, nurses, etc. By definition, if a doctor treats an insurance patient, it means that he does not treat a publicly funded patient, something that the doctor could have done at that moment. We are talking about the risk of displacement. Don't you see that risk? Apparently not. You think this is fair. The tax will is assumed to be reduced by the purchaser of private health insurance, and you can understand that. You pay every month for your health insurance and you also have to pay tax. It can feel a little heavy. The system of private health insurance is also very cost-driven. There is also a demand culture where patients or customers want to get the maximum out of their insurance. For example, you want a second opinion, so there can be a lot of visits. At the same time, private carers have an interest in selling as much healthcare as possible. It is impossible for the unemployed, the sick and the elderly to take out private health insurance, which is why public-funded care is taking care of an increasing proportion of those who are suffering the most badly. Publicly funded care must be so good that no one sees the need to take out a health insurance policy. That must be the goal, and how do we reach it? But we have to deal with the reality that we are facing. This isn't a giant thing we're gonna try to do, you can hardly say that. The argument that insurance would lead to shorter waiting times for everyone is very weak. Several studies point in the opposite direction. A report from the London School of Economics states that there is no evidence that private health insurance would relieve the pressure on publicly funded care. The conclusions of the same report show that when the boundary between public and private care is not clearly defined, there is a risk that public resources could rather go towards subsidising care for those with private insurance. A report from the OECD – which has been mentioned by the Green Party – also states that private health insurance policies generate more total consumption of care than a relief of public health care. Health care becomes more accessible to the insured, but not to others. For us, it is crucial that care is given as needed and not according to the size of the wallet. I still thought that was some kind of basic. The proposal means that, within the framework of private health insurance, in publicly funded health care may only be provided if the principles of Section 2 of the Health Act are not infringed. It was a modest little request, wasn't it? It provides that care should be provided with respect for the equal value of all people and for the dignity of the individual and that priority should be given to care for those who have the greatest need for health care. Well, that's fair enough, isn't it? I request the approval of the S, MP and V reservations.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-250	Mr President, I would like to My intention, of course, is to support the committee's proposal in the report. Swedish healthcare has very good results. We should be proud of what is done every day in the meeting between caregivers and patients. It is possible today to save lives and reduce suffering to a much greater extent than in the past and better than many other countries can deliver. At the same time, there are enormous challenges in Swedish health care. One of the biggest challenges is that confidence in health care is falling, and it is falling quite drastically. One effect of that is the reason why we are having this debate today. There are 650 000 people who themselves, through employers or through associations, have chosen to take out a health insurance policy because you do not trust that the care should be there the day you need it. It's a concern. We will have a jointly funded healthcare system in Sweden where everyone should receive care as needed. That is what our legislation says, and that is what we should live up to. As more and more people take out health insurance because they no longer trust health care, we should be worried about that. So are we in the Alliance. However, just as several consultation bodies say, the bill presented by the government is not a solution to the challenge that exists. Maybe it's even the other way around. It may be that the impact on the patients with the greatest needs will be negative if the ill-prepared, hasty and poorly substantiated proposal put forward by the government is implemented. For example, the Council of Law says that it has not been demonstrated that the legislation is needed. Nor has it been made clear that it would have consequences for the benefit of patients at risk of being disadvantaged by private health insurance. Furthermore, it is not clear how the proposed provisions could be evaluated. So you don't even know how it could be evaluated. In this context, the Legislative Council cannot support the implementation of the proposal, particularly as it is said to be merely a clarification of what is already in force. ..................................................... The government is therefore prepared to implement a legislative proposal that is merely a clarification, but it risks exacerbating a situation of concern with its clarification. This is not responsible. The whole committee visited Västernorrland yesterday and the day before yesterday. There we saw some of the problems that increase people's anxiety. In the publicly driven primary care, we were told, about half of all doctors are now relay doctors, because of the inability to have continuity. We know which patients have the greatest need for continuity in primary care. It's the most sick and the chronic. They're the ones who risk getting worse care. Yesterday morning we were in the emergency room and met with staff who were extremely proud of how they have gained influence on how their trauma rooms have been rebuilt. We also met staff inside the surgeon, where they have had to rebuild to be able to treat patients better in new fresh rooms. But I also talked to the person who was the spider in the net. She was responsible for ensuring that both her premises and her competent staff were used all day long in the best possible way. I asked: How will things go today? How many will get the surgery they need? She replied: Not everyone on my list today will have their surgery. I don't know who, because it's the doctor who makes the assessment. But I guess some of the patients waiting to get a pacemaker won't get it today. They will continue to feel ill with continued risks to their health. They cannot get their surgery and go home and then no longer be the same burden on the care. This is a Social Democratic-driven county council that can't handle its core task. And it is when publicly funded care is unable to carry out its core task that more people feel compelled to take out a private health insurance policy. This is a concern. We're concerned. However, the government's analysis – that private health insurances displace – has no basis. I think we all recognize the situation when you stand in the grocery store and the queue to the cashier is quite long. You sigh a little. But then you see that another cashier opens. Sometimes it gets a little hot. Some want to press ahead and run forward and stand first in the new cash register. Others are a little more solidarity and think that those in front of me have waited longer; let them go ahead to the new checkout. But no matter who goes to the new cashier, the consequence for all those in line is that if there is another cashier, it is quicker for everyone to arrive. This is also an effect of private health insurance and of the fact that more funds are coming in that will allow us to deliver more care in our country. More care is given. Overall, more care is provided. It is still a concern when more and more people turn to private health insurance, because, as many have said, it risks undermining confidence and the willingness to pay for our jointly funded health care. But we should not strangle the possibility of having several actors who deliver good care to all the patients in our country who deserve good care. Mr President, I would like to The product that the government has delivered is not only poorly substantiated, it has risks for those patients who have the greatest needs. That is why we are calling for it to be rejected and for it to be approved in the report.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-265	Mr President, I would like to I did not intend to hold a health policy debate but will concentrate on insurance. It feels easiest that way. Long before the Law Council said anything, this was presented in August in an article signed by Minister Gabriel Wikström and myself. It became a hell of a life right away. You didn't have to look at the article for more than three minutes before you started. You could say it was a spinal reflex. Private carers are paid more by insurance companies. Do you not think, Emma Henriksson, that this may ultimately mean that the private health care providers are becoming less and less interested in the publicly funded patients in the county councils? They may require more money to conclude a contract with the county council. It will be a kind of competitive situation. Don't you see that as a risk? My second question is that if you have a private insurance policy, the treatment should begin within 14 days. That's amazing. But in Stockholm County Council, which I do not intend to delve into, it is guaranteed that the treatment will be started within 90 days. Most private health care providers also receive publicly funded county council patients. The result, however, is that those who have insurance are ahead of the queue. I don't think medical care can be described as a grocery store. It's gonna be hard. In any case, a sour cream file is created. Is this not contrary to the Health Act? Or how do you think doctors and these healthcare companies keep track of this? It is clear that if someone has an insurance policy and is to receive treatment within 14 days, they will receive it within 14 days. Otherwise, there'll be a huge fight with the insurance company. But if you sit without insurance, my God! You have to wait 90 days. Don't you think this is an evasive manoeuvre?
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-271	Mr President, I would like to I want a care in Sweden that is so good that patients trust it so much that they feel that it is not worth them paying for insurance, but they have already paid for the care we should have through the tax. This care should be available to all as needed. It should be on equal terms, no matter who you are and no matter where you live in the country. That is not the case today. People get to stand in line. Queues are increasing because the government is focusing on things like these instead of focusing on the real problems in health care. You remove working instruments to shorten the queues, but the queues are growing. This is the consequence of this government's policy. Many of the healthcare providers who charge both insurance and county councils to provide care can testify that if they had not had the private patients, they would not have been able to provide any care at all – nor to the county council's patients. The fact that county councils do not deliver the necessary care is a huge concern. This is what pushes people out to private insurance. In a country where we are to have solidarity-funded care, insurance should not be necessary. We should have a care guarantee which is gradually improved and which shortens waiting times and lead times so that you get the care you need when you need it. Karin Rågsjö claims that there are displacement effects. But there's nothing about it in any evidence. Even in the government's own bill, there is nothing to prove that there are displacement effects. What basis Karin Rågsjö has I am wondering about. At present, private insurance care accounts for about 1%. It's not much, but it's still a concern. For the long term, the government's policy of legitimacy for Swedish healthcare undermines.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-277	Mr President, I would like to We have completely different entrances to this, Emma Henriksson. As far as health policy is concerned, I do not intend to discuss Stockholm County Council, but it looks bad despite all the insurance that people here in the county have. Don't you think this is strange anyway? It is because of your eight years of total privatisation that so much is being invested. You have also drifted to get this on a deeper plane. So you have made these health insurances possible through all privatisations, and this has increased during that period. Why didn't you do something if you saw this as a little concern? There are also investigations on this. For example, we can look at the OECD report. The OECD is not the Left Party. The OECD believes that private health insurance rather generates an increase in total healthcare consumption and makes healthcare more accessible to those who are insured but not to others. So there's a big survey on it, so it's nothing that anyone's been sitting around making up. This is ultimately about the view on health care and the view on who should rule and have power over Swedish health care. I do not think it is the insurance companies, which have an enormous capacity behind them and who would very much like to see it become like in the United States. Now we are absolutely not there, and in the United States it is definitely not good, but it is also about the private health professionals who are the big giants in this and they are somehow linked together. For me, this is gonna be weird. If you have private health insurance, you will receive treatment within 14 days, otherwise it will be within 90 days. Of course it creates an extreme injustice. How to get healthcare started is about investing in staff and in welfare. For example, you cannot propose tax reductions, as Emma Henriksson's friends to the right of her suggest.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-282	Madam President, I would like During the reign of the Alliance, more resources were invested in this area than ever before and not only more resources overall because we have become more, but also more resources per person in our country. We prioritised that care should be given in time to everyone as needed. We focused on the care queues that remove confidence in Swedish healthcare. When the current government supported by the Left Party came to power, they have gradually worked in a way that reduces confidence in Swedish health care. Queues are increasing. In the emergency room, those with the greatest needs will have to wait the longest, i.e. people over 80 years of age. There are county councils where you sit and control where you have to wait for more than ten hours in the emergency room if you are over 80 years old, although you have needs. In Västernorrland, which we visited the other day, public primary care cannot employ people in more than half of the medical services. You can't recruit anyone. You're not good enough as an employer, so you're dependent on a relay doctor. We also met a privately run primary care business. They say it's about 5-10 percent, because it's hard to recruit in the county. When we bring in other actors to run the jointly funded healthcare system, which we should each get as needed and not on any other premises, then we manage to deliver better care at a lower cost in many places. This is what we have seen in Stockholm County Council. It has become better health care at a lower cost.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-288	Madam President, I would like It has been a while since the 2014 elections, and I may think it is high time that the government and the responsible Minister Annika Strandhäll started to focus on the real challenges that we have in health care and that are about staff flight, quality and accessibility. In this regard, I would like to agree with what my fellow Alliance member, Emma Henriksson, said in her speech. In this bill, the government wants to impose restrictions on private health insurance in publicly funded health care. It is another government proposal that wants to restrict, regulate and ban. I think it would be nice if the government instead made proposals which looked positively at the diversity and freedom of choice that provides opportunities for health care. The bill with its legislative amendments, which is now on the table of the Riksdag and which we are debating, is based on false statements and analyses by the government, and that is why we here in Parliament will vote down this bill today. The majority of committees think that the Government's proposal is ill-founded and inadequately prepared. If we were to let the Government's proposals through, this would have negative consequences for the accessibility of public health services. There are many things that are worrying. I mentioned earlier staff flight, quality and availability. Another cause for concern is the increase in absenteeism. Inflows to health insurance are increasing, while long-term sick leave is increasing. The government has abolished incentives for rehabilitation and to get back to work in this area. We lack concrete measures to tackle unequal care, growing queues and inadequate rehabilitation. Instead of tackling these challenges, however, the government is proposing a tax burden that neither benefits the health care nor the patient. The government often says that employers should take responsibility. Here we have employers who take responsibility for keeping their staff healthy. There are employers who have chosen to take out private health insurance for their employees. The government will then come forward with a proposal that will give a tax penalty to these employees. Instead, I think it would be good if the government encouraged more companies to take responsibility for keeping their staff healthy, thus contributing to low health rates and sick leave. Another point that has been highlighted in this debate and which I would like to emphasise is that the availability of county-funded care is not impaired by the fact that there are private health insurance as a complement. This has also been stated by many consultation bodies. Do the government parties really think that the care queues and waiting times will be shorter if they get through their bill? One might wonder whether the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party really want to achieve a low and stable absence. It is clear to me that the government is saying one thing and acting in a completely different way. That doesn't make any sense. The proposal is not well thought out. As I said, there are more challenges to tackle than supplementary health insurance, as my colleague Emma Henriksson has also presented. It would be reasonable for the government to give priority to other ways instead of opposing those who take responsibility. Several consultation bodies have pointed out that there is no need for the legislation that the government is now proposing. The Legislative Council does not even endorse the proposal but criticises it and believes that the legislation is not needed. The government has also not been able to present facts and evidence showing that there are displacement effects due to private health insurance. The Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left themselves write in their reservation that, although it is unclear whether holders of private health insurance are really given priority over patients who receive publicly funded care. Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by saying that, unfortunately, this is another example of the fact that we do not have a government capable of government. Instead, in fine words, we are trying to allay the concerns about the challenges of health care. It is not possible to put forward proposals and pilot them through the Riksdag. As I said, the government is unable to pilot proposals through the Riksdag on one of the voters' most important issues. We Moderates expect the government to start prioritising the real challenges facing healthcare.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-303	Madam President, I would like Jenny Petersson concluded her speech by talking about the concern that health care should not exist when you need it. It's a fact in many places. One explanation for the concern is that you are concerned that you should not receive treatment on equal terms and as needed. A trend in which we see more and more people taking out health insurance via their employer supports the risk of this concern. A move towards increasingly privately funded care risks creating parallel structures and parallel healthcare systems with a clear sour cream file for those who can afford to pay an insurance policy. Jenny Petersson also claims that there are proposals in the bill to limit health insurance. There is no such explicit proposal for restrictions. It is a matter of clarifying what is already in the Health Act so that these systems do not arise and minimise the risk of displacement effects that make it the wallet that determines the health care efforts, not the need. It is about regulating, and it is about maintaining confidence in health care. The question has to be asked. Just as Karin Rågsjö said earlier, this is a modest request. It is difficult to understand why the bourgeois parties, including the Swedish Democrats, cannot agree to make a clarification in order to overcome the uncertainty. None of us today know what is really going on in this business, and we do not really know what the future holds. But we get an opportunity to evaluate with the help of a follow-up instrument if the county councils require in their agreements that there should be a report for the principals.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-307	Madam President, I would like The change in the law that the government is making is not about follow-up. I think Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson's speech on sour cream is to slip the truth. There's no need for the law. Several consultation bodies have described this. I base my position on the fact that I think there should be several actors in health care. There should be freedom of choice. There's a conflict with S. It is clear that if the law were introduced the queues would grow. It's not good for patients. There is a great dividing line in which to put first. I put the patient first. I will return to the reservation of the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party. It is unclear, however, whether holders are actually given priority over patients who receive publicly funded care. ..................................................... You're saying something. The rhetoric is on a high level, and you turn on the big drum. But in substance you are based on the same facts and position, and in your reservation we can read that you yourself do not see any displacement effects. It is strange that you are so fighting for something that is not needed. Madam President, I would like There is much to focus on in healthcare. Much works well, but there are still many things that need to be improved.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-313	Madam President, I would like That's exactly what the government does. You can have several things in your head at the same time and at the same time. There will be a series of proposals. The government has proposed an additional billions to develop primary care, and an investigator has been appointed to present his first report in June. There are many things happening in health care. There is a professional billion to eliminate the root cause of a not so good accessibility in today's situation. What we are talking about today is perhaps a little hard for our citizens to understand. When we say that it is unclear whether there are displacement effects today, it is because it is precisely unclear. Neither Jenny Petersson nor I know if there are displacement effects or not. We are now creating the conditions for gaining knowledge. According to the Government's proposal, the Landstingen must, in its agreements with private carers, require that the principle of need and solidarity be maintained. It is up to health care providers together with county councils to design follow-up instruments. I do not think that the state, the government or we in Parliament need to design this. The healthcare providers and county councils themselves can agree on how they can successfully create follow-up opportunities. It is different for the various private carers, who are so badly needed. All county councils have good use of them, and they have had it since time immemorial. But it is also possible to create good opportunities for county councils and citizens to gain democratic transparency in order to ensure that there are no displacement effects. It is thus possible to maintain trust and confidence in health care.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-317	Madam President, I would like I have three comments. AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson says that the government has rolled up many proposals. That is a false statement. Given that the red-greens spent a lot of time blacking out that something had broken in Sweden, especially in health care, I had expected a plethora of reforms in this area in 2014 when you took over. But that is not the case. Of course, several proposals will come, but much can be done much better than the proposals put on the table. AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson says it is unclear whether there are displacement effects. Then it is strange to introduce a law that involves growing care queues. That's exactly what the bill means. Then you go in the opposite direction. A number of investigations have been launched, and then you can spend money on another investigation – what I know – to check if there are evasive effects before a bill is tabled that will mean growing care queues. Growing care queues are already a problem. The position of the Moderates is partly ideological and partly based on the fact that several consultation bodies have pointed out that there is no need for this legislation that the government is proposing and that Anna-Anna-Lena Sörenson wants to defend. The main consultation body, the Law Council, does not even support the proposal but criticises it and believes that the legislation is not needed.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-321	Madam President, I would like It sounds like there are no studies whatsoever on the subject. I will return to the OECD study that has looked at private health insurance. That's what we're talking about today. The study shows that private health insurance generates an increase in total healthcare consumption and does not constitute a relief for public health care. Health care becomes more accessible to the insured but not to the others. For us in the Left Party, this is absolutely crucial. It's about equal care. The whole discussion is about equal care. I have to ask Jenny Petersson a question. An insurance policy means that you will receive your treatment within 14 days. That sounds amazing. The public guarantees treatment within 90 days. Only private care providers accept insurance patients. Most of the private health care providers also receive publicly funded county council patients. However, the result must be the creation of cream files that run counter to the Swedish Health Care Act, which says that those who have the greatest need for health care should be given priority to healthcare. Don't you mind? As soon as the motion came out mediated, you were on your toes right away. That was before the Law Council had even seen a letter. This is an ideological question: who should be in health care? Are there going to be more private health care providers, more insurance companies? They have a mission, and that's making money for their shareholders. I don't suppose there's any talk about it. After all, they are not there just to create prosperity. If this were about high and low and health policy, it would look unparalleledly good in Stockholm, where there is a concentrate of private health insurance. Oh, my God, 15 percent empty care places! It should look amazing here, but it doesn't.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-326	Madam President, I would like I would like to start with the assertion that this is an ideological issue. Certainly we have an ideological difference here. This proposal is, of course, about further restrictions, regulations and prohibitions. That line goes the Left Party often on. As a moderate, however, I put the patient and patient safety first. I would like to see more proposals that develop the Swedish health care system. I welcome freedom of choice and diversity, which the Left Party and Karin Rågsjö unfortunately often do not. Karin Rågsjö once again points out that it is about a sour cream file. In spite of this, you yourself write in your reservation that such things cannot be strengthened. I almost sound like a parrot here, but several consultation bodies have pointed this out. There is no need for this legislation. The council doesn't even approve it. I've mentioned that before. But I'm gonna give you a chance, Karin Rågsjö. You talk a lot about the OECD report. How much is it linked to Sweden and what we are debating here today? I'm giving you the opportunity to answer that, Karin.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-329	Madam President, I would like No one is talking about banning private health insurance. This is about respect for the Swedish Health Act and for the principle of solidarity that those who have the greatest needs should take precedence. That is what this debate is about. It is not a question of banning these insurance policies – quite the contrary. On the other hand, you have to keep an eye on them. I think it is a bit tragic that we do not have more studies of what the increased number of private health insurances in Sweden has led to. Now we're gonna start one, but we can't do that. It would have been insanely good if you had at least hung on there and said: Yes, we have to look at this. But you don't seem to be interested in that. You want to continue. If you continue along this path, it will look for greater inequality. We have great health inequalities. If you're going to get past it, go ahead and get an equal health care under the Health Act, you have to make some changes that might, perhaps, allow the big health companies and the big insurance companies to back off a little. This could be the case, for the benefit of people in Sweden. As far as the OECD is concerned, I think it is rather like we can only look at Swedish studies. It sounds a bit banal, when measurements have been made in Europe of what this has led to. We were also in the United States. Oh, my God, it's a thoroughly privatised country, where we can really see what happens if you give free leeway to both insurance companies and health care providers. What happens then? Yes, you get a health care that is completely undermined but that costs the shirt! I would like to do an extreme survey in Stockholm County Council and look at the displacement effects that this might have created in that county council. That would have been super interesting. It would have been a step towards more equal health.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-334	Madam President, I would like I did not understand any concrete questions for myself in this line, but it was clear that Karin Rågsjö and the Left Party could not present this report or link it to Sweden. We all know that the structure of our health systems is very different. I'm very proud of our publicly funded healthcare system. That's how it should be, and those principles should apply. I am also very proud that we have several complementary actors and free choice of care within the systems in Sweden.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-336	Madam President, I would like It is quite tragic that we in this House should have this debate at all. It is a clear sign of a weak, social democratic government that does not address the major problems we have in health care but instead makes up problems and also chooses confrontation with the Alliance instead of seeking broad consensus. We have enough major concerns in Swedish healthcare. The committee was in Västernorrland on Monday and Tuesday. There we heard about the closure of the maternity ward and the delivery ward in Sollefteå. Here we see a split of Sweden: People living in the sparsely populated parts of the country are receiving increasingly poor health care, unlike those living in the larger cities. We were told about the problems in primary care, where 50% of medical services are not possessed. At the private health centres it is thankfully better – there it is between 5 and 10%. We also heard about the big problems you have with queues. All of this is clear, major problems in Swedish healthcare, but the government does not come up with any proposals at all. I am concerned that, due to the poor availability of Swedish healthcare, more and more employers and also private individuals are choosing to obtain private health insurance. This is a development that I do not applaud in any way. But it is clear that this is the consequence of the lack of accessibility when the Social Democratic Government has completely lost control of the queues. It is clear that an employer does not want an employee to sit at home and wait three, four or five months for a new hip, but then chooses to pay it one more time through a private health insurance. It is certainly not a development that I applaud, because I want public health services to be available. That's where you should be able to get quick help. You shouldn't have to pay twice for the same health care, which is actually the consequence when 600 000 – 700 000 Swedes – there will surely be more so that we get up to 800 000 – somehow buy a private health insurance. There is the big problem, but we solve it by doing something about the queues and increasing accessibility. Instead, the Social Democrats choose to suggest that it might be a problem for these patients to take precedence over gender. There is no evidence whatsoever of that, Madam President. That's what the Law Council says. Swedish health care is 80 percent funded by public funds, and it is the Health Act's priority order that applies. But 20 percent is financed differently. It is, for example, that we who need licences or other things have to pay for them ourselves. This does not mean that we take priority in the queue at the health centre. For example, we have all the major university hospitals that have large units that provide medical care for Saudi princes and wealthy people from other countries. That doesn't mean you're pushing other patients away. The same is true of private health insurance. There is no evidence whatsoever that those patients are going ahead. So how does this relate to each other? Let me take a concrete example. Bollnäs Hospital at home in my county Gävleborg, which is governed by the Social Democrats and the Center Party, has been outsourced for a number of years. It's Aleris, a Wallenberg company, who runs it. It is one of Sweden's absolute best small hospitals. Say that they have the capacity to operate 300 hips but the county council in Gävleborg only buys 200 surgeries. Then there's an excess capacity of 100 operations. Tell them that someone from one of the Social Democratically controlled county councils with gigantic queues then chooses to take their private health insurance, go to Bollnäs and get hip surgery. Does it lead to this someone getting ahead of the line? No, for the 200 patients that the county council in Gävleborg has paid for are operated on first, and then the others come. Does this mean that the poor man who comes from Västernorrland, for example, has gone before anyone else in Västernorrland? No, it works so that if I in Västernorrland stand in place 112 and wait for my poor hip to have surgery and those who have the seats 111 and 110 suddenly go off to Bollnäs to operate on the hip, it means that I come further up in the queue. That's how this is connected. I do not applaud private health insurance, but it is definitely not that they lead to someone taking precedence over the queue. We must remedy this by ensuring that the queues in public health care are removed, but not by creating these problems. Furthermore, if the Social Democrats, the Left and the Green Party were to pass this legislation so that Bollnäs Hospital could not sell its overcapacity to private health insurance, what would be the consequence? Yes, probably the county council in Gävleborg paid 50 percent more for the 200 operations they actually do. This is obvious to almost all the consultative bodies, and then one might ask why the Social Democrats choose to put this forward. They do so because they do not dare to address the major problems we have in health care. But they know that the Swedish population thinks that healthcare is one of the most important issues and therefore, like the 2002, 2006 and 2010 elections, want to be able to conduct a debate in the streets and squares and say that it has now become the thickness of the wallet that determines who should receive healthcare. We want that society gone! Now the Social Democrats will be able to wave the bill and say: Here was the proposal we had to make sure that the thickness of the wallet does not determine what care you receive. But it stopped the terrible Alliance with the help of the Swedish Democrats. This is a lie! It's fiction – fake news, as you have in the United States. This is not a problem in Swedish healthcare. But I know that's how it's gonna sound. It did so in the run-up to the 2010 elections. Then Mona Sahlin talked about how terrible it was down at the South Hospital. There is a private unit that can operate on hearts, and there they have two waiting rooms: one for the rich with private health insurance and one for the poor who are financed through the county council. I thought this sounded fascinating, so I went there and looked. It was very interesting, because a number of years ago there was quite a big investment in a device that can operate atrial fibrillation with the help of radiation. Of course, that device was very expensive, and there was a lot of capacity. The treatments bought by the county councils did not fill up the capacity, and then they took patients with private insurance and a number of foreign patients. When I was there, they had also had a patient who had actually paid out of his own pocket. This is the kind of example that the Social Democrats want to use to run an election campaign and talk about health care, instead of talking about how health care is deteriorating in Swedish rural areas, about the problems in primary care, where 50 percent are staffet physicians in some social democratic-led county councils, and about the queues in health care, which are getting longer and longer every day the Social Democrats remain in Rosenbad. That is why I find this discussion so tragic. We have major challenges in Swedish healthcare. We would need a strong government that could reach out across the block and initiate radical reforms that could actually improve the situation in Swedish healthcare. Instead, we are dedicated to this: making windmills that you think it can be fun to pull waltzes about in the election movement we have ahead of us, in order to be able to say that it is the thickness of the wallet that determines who gets healthcare in Sweden – a direct lie. I support the committee's proposal and therefore reject the so-called proposal.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-355	Madam President, I would like Yes, Anders, this is turning into a huge health debate, isn't it? You mentioned births. I just have to say that you have not put in any funds; you said no to our redemption money. Do you remember that? That's all I'm going to say about that. Then you can think a little about this. It's a pretty modest change, I think. It is a question of taking into account the principles governing the Health Act. It's about equality. But you don't even think so. You sound like these health insurances are going to go all the way around the world, but that's not the case. We want to prioritise equal health and do not want anyone to be able to take priority in gender. It's as simple as that. I also thought you'd like to look into this a little more. Wouldn't it be interesting to look at what it looks like in every county council with the displacement effects? There are investigations, Anders, in Europe and elsewhere, where you can see that health insurance generates more for those who have the biggest wallet – those who have health insurance, quite simply. I find it tragic that you did not even want to propose such an analysis of the system. You didn't do that in your eight years. You say it's only about a very small part of healthcare, but I think it's a really serious tendency when private insurance companies and giant healthcare companies – not small owners of health centres but Attendo, Aleris, Capio – have such a large part of healthcare. You have somehow benefited them extra during your eight years. It is clear that when these private health institutions have grown that much, it is even easier for those who have health insurance to take precedence over the gender.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-360	Madam President, I would like I am also very concerned that developments in Sweden are going in the wrong direction in terms of queues and increasingly unequal health care. But an analysis must also be carried out: What is the reason why health care is becoming more and more unequal today? Yes, it's mainly the queues. If we get queues in health care or bread queues in Venezuela, it affects the weakest in the first place. Those who are rich or have contacts always make their way. Then you have to do something about the queues, and there are no proposals at all. The Left Party and Karin Rågsjö, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have no problem with the queues increasing, as long as everyone stands still in the queue and does not try to find their own solution. That is where the measures must be put in place. I find it exciting to hear that Karin Rågsjö, and certainly also the Social Democrats and the Green Party, must go to the OECD, Spain and the United States to find arguments that this particular legislation is probably necessary in Sweden. I can understand the need to look so far away in a situation where the Law Council says that this is already regulated in the Health Act and that there is no evidence at all that changes are needed. I would like to explain again to Karin Rågsjö how the queue situation works. Bollnäs Hospital has the capacity to operate 300 knees, but the county council in Gävleborg buys only 200 knee operations. If the excess capacity of 100 is then used so that some poor patient from some sosse-controlled county council in Sweden with very long queues can go to Bollnäs and get his knee operated on it does not mean that the people at home in his own county council will get worse. On the contrary, it means that they come later in line. I do not want more people to get private health insurance, but I want to do that by ensuring that we get rid of the queues in Swedish health care.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-365	Madam President, I would like Then we also need more money for welfare, don't we, Anders? But we are not going to turn this into a budget debate. I will return to Stockholm County. You talk about your county and I about mine and Stockholm County Council. You'll have to do a sightseeing here soon. Here it is teeming with private health care providers and with people who have insurance. And of course you get a little wondering. If you and I have an insurance policy and we have a kneeache, we're gonna get treatment in 14 days-- that sounds perfect, doesn't it? But if you don't have the insurance, it takes 90 days before you get the treatment. There's a difference, Anders. And you still don't think that there are people who push ahead in the queue without a doctor who has made a kind of great system on the computer to make sure that those with the greatest need go ahead. Do you think so, Anders? I don't think so. It would have been so wonderful to do this analysis of how it looks in the county councils. The small change we are going to make is about protecting Swedish legislation. That's what we're doing. We're not taking away the private health insurance. We want to ensure that Swedish legislation is consistent. It sounds like everyone, the whole gang, thought this was bad business, but that's not the case; 70 percent were in favour of this. One would also have to carry out an in-depth analysis, but you are taking that opportunity away by putting a negative vote on this proposal. Everyone talks about equal care, but there is also a need to make some efforts to get there. In order to remove queues and what we have in, for example, Stockholm County Council, where a whole hospital is closed down because there is a lack of care places and staff fleeing, I think there is a need for more money for welfare. We must ensure that those who work in health care receive better salaries, shorter working hours, you name it, so that they remain.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-370	Madam President, I would like It is interesting that Karin Rågsjö takes Stockholm County Council as an example. It is one of the county councils where you have the shortest queues and can thus contribute to the most equal health. The major problems are in the county councils that the Left Party and the Social Democrats run. There's a long line. I am also genuinely concerned that we have an increasing inequality – that Sweden is being torn apart, not least in terms of health care. But if we're going to fix this, we're going to have to get rid of the queues. This involves ensuring that public health services can also deliver hip surgery within 14 days. A bad hip doesn't get better if the patient waits three, four or five months. A poor hip should be operated on as quickly as possible, so that the patient can come back to work. It is when we have this as a target that we can get at the increase in private health insurance. When public health services function worse and worse under the control of S, MP and to some extent V, it is clear that those who can choose to find other ways. The solution is not that we are trying to close the other roads, but the solution is to fix the problems we have in Swedish healthcare, so that we get as good accessibility as in other countries. You shouldn't have to stand in line and wait for your hip to have surgery. That is how we address the structural problems in Swedish healthcare. I absolutely do not agree with Karin Rågsjö's analysis, that the big shortcoming would be the lack of money in Swedish healthcare. It is certainly good to have additional resources, but here it is about finding more effective ways to organise Swedish healthcare. There we have role models not least in the privately operated hospitals, such as Aleri Hospital in Bollnäs and Capio St Göran here in the city.
i-CoVVnKPoGm6QsCR2FbVr6V	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the proposal and the reservations. Like Anders W Jonsson, I would like to say that the solidarity-based financing of health care with the financing of both public and private care of high quality on equal terms is the basis. But now we have private health insurance. It is primarily the employers who represent them. They account for 72%. Then there are group insurances that make up a little over 20%. It is a very small proportion of individual insurance. Then why do we have this? To understand this, it is necessary to analyse what needs the general health law-based healthcare system does not meet. Then I'll do what I usually do and open the history book. Until the 1970s, companies offered health care to their employees and their families. This worked pragmatically and practically. A lot of people were happy. But then the health services for companies would be reorganised. The health care part was removed from the companies, and what remained became health care and thus had a completely different focus. It was assumed that the employees would receive all the help they needed at the health centre. This, however, did not work. On the one hand, health centres did not have the resources to receive all patients, and on the other hand, health centres were geographically wrong in relation to workplaces. Then this insurance system began to develop. The companies were keen that employees could quickly get easier tonsillitis and other things fixed. One important part was rehabilitation, so that you could get back to work as soon as possible. This is one of the breeding grounds for the insurance system that has developed in Sweden. It looks different from the private insurance policies that have developed in other countries. It is therefore a question of needs that cannot be met, which causes queues in the ordinary healthcare system, and of the problems we have had with the construction of primary care. I think that this should be included in the discussion. It is therefore needs-driven, and it has become good for the employees too. There's talk here about what we're going to investigate. Perhaps we should investigate occupational health care and occupational medicine and see how we can get a more effective order there. In this way, we can relieve health centres and healthcare from a patient pressure that they currently cannot cope with and perhaps also make it more convenient for patients, as in the past, to go to nurse, doctor or physiotherapist within the workplace walls. Not everyone wanted to go there – some did not want to be seen in the healthcare system but chose primary care. But I think it is this type of investigation that we should consider. We have a health care system with major problems. We have talked about this earlier in this debate, which now becomes a bit of a public health debate. Yesterday, some of us were at the Medical Council. There a big prize was awarded to the head of St Göran's hospital, the privately managed hospital, for the efficiency and leadership shown there. What is it that you do there and obviously also in Bollnäs but that you can't handle elsewhere? Should we not learn from this successful health care? The same applies to health centres. In the Social Affairs Committee we have been on study visits and have been able to see differences between public and private-run outpatient care, and we can put a positive sign for the private-run. There is a wealth of ideas and also a greater flexibility in developing new ideas. We have been in this area in the past and have just made comparisons between health centres – between those who need many relay doctors and those who have no relay doctors at all. We have had a hearing on this in the Committee on Social Affairs. There it became clear that when those working at the health centre have responsibility for the economy and patients and can also organise the spring in a way that suits them, staff turnover and sick leave are reduced. Sick leave is when you're too infected to meet your patients. Several have raised the issue of priorities. There is nothing to suggest that this is overlooked by the existence of private insurance. No one has been able to prove that. I think there is a much more important priority to address, namely the displacement of patients with rare diagnoses and severe diseases that cost a lot to treat for the benefit of patients who are many and who have simpler health problems. The many with mild diseases are confronted with patients with severe diseases that require large resources. I think that this is a very big ethical problem in health care that we need to address.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-384	Madam President, I would like This debate can ultimately be about everything in the healthcare sector – then we are floating out. I'll try to focus on the insurance. It is about making the modest change, so that no one who has less need than anyone else should get ahead of themselves in the queue. It is a question of complying with the principle of need and solidarity. Resources should be allocated as necessary. But then I have to go back to what you said. Of course, it would be very good if there was a labour market where you could do something like we can do in Parliament. We still have a doctor we can see here. It's a very priority. I have never been there; I go to the health centre. But this is not the case in the rest of Sweden. I think the Alliance broke that system during the eight years of government. There would have been a need for more focus on that. We're talking about different health centers, who's good and who's not good. The absolute best health centre in all of Sweden, I believe, is Gustavsberg's health centre. It is large enough to have the capacity to receive all those who, for example, have mental ill health of various kinds. You have rehab. Children and young people are accepted. It's a great health center. You're on a little dangerous ground when you always say that the best health centers are the private ones. However, in one country there is a limited supply of medical resources, health centers, hospitals, doctors, nurses, and more. A doctor who treats a person who has an insurance policy might also have been able to treat a person who does not have that insurance. So there is a risk of displacement. You can see it in other countries, but you are ignoring that research. I am thinking, for example, of what is in the OECD.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-390	Madam President, I would like It compares health care centres. I think that the Söderhamn medical centre, which we have received a report from in this House and which I have visited, is incredibly well run by eight doctors. We can highlight these cases. Then there is occupational health care. The change, that you should not have healthcare in occupational health care, came far earlier. In fact, it came under the Social Democratic government. The Alliance worked within the framework of the occupational health care system that was established long before. Then there is the matter of taking the lead. I maintain what I said in the speaker's chair when it comes to comparing with other countries' systems. It's not comparable. With us it is very concentrated in companies. It assures its own people of what was previously offered within the company's framework. So you're willing to pay double. It is then partly a question of solidarity-funded care. I still think that should be the basis. We must ensure that it is so good that insurance is not needed. Then I think of the few people who have insured themselves privately, individually. They are very few, compared to what we see in the companies. In the next post, I can come back to the question: How do you measure that you go ahead?
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-394	Madam President, I would like If you have insurance, you're guaranteed treatment within 14 days, and then we're talking about treatment. In the usual care queue, it is 90 days waiting time. Don't you think there'll be some kind of displacement for the people who have insurance? Only private health care providers accept insurance patients. Most private health care providers also receive publicly funded county council patients. The result is a kind of sour cream for those who have insurance. It would have been fantastic if we had got through this very modest bill. We want to get county councils to analyse what happens to health insurance. That would have been very good. You've objected to that. You're saying it's okay. You cannot compare Sweden with other countries. We are on a very dangerous journey in Sweden, I think, with the increased influence of insurance companies and the large healthcare companies. It's a dangerous journey. You could say, "Oh, my God, there's so little problem here. It's never gonna be like in America. It will never be like in other countries, where there is an incredible class difference in terms of health care. But we are on that path, and that is what this debate is about. It's about equal health. How are we going to increase opportunities for equal health, so that those who have the greatest needs get help first and not Director Svensson, who can pay for himself, so to speak? That's the journey you have to start doing sometime. I'm thinking of the United States, where the committee made a trip. Every visit we made told about its situation and highlighted Sweden as an equal country. I don't think any of us had the heart to say what it really was like. They would have started crying, I think, because they were also waiting for the presidential election. But we're on that journey.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-400	Madam President, I would like First of all, private insurance does not cover emergency care. It's an important thing to remember. Then there is the issue of setting up an administrative apparatus. I am thinking of Anders W Jonsson's example of Västerbotten and Bollnäs and hip replacement surgery. Shall we then sit and collect individual data and weigh it? Then we'll use the resources wrong. I believe that those resources should be used to finance more people who work in the care itself. What we are going to do is carry out what is said in Göran Stiernstedt's study on effective care. We will work to get rid of the queues, so that the need for these insurance policies is reduced. I think that is what we should focus on and not on what Karin Rågsjö says: that we should say no to those within a company. It is not just a CEO, but all employees can take advantage of the insurance. It's good for them. But it is also the case that the pressure is reduced. As many have said, the queues can actually be shortened a little if these people receive care through this system. But as I said, we're going to get rid of the queues, and we're going to get effective care. There's money in the system, but it's used incorrectly. I wonder: Is it really money we need? Perhaps it is a money press that can push forward the efficiency improvements proposed by Göran Stiernstedt.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-405	Madam President, I would like We in the Moderates have for quite some time in our draft budgets had proposals similar to the start-up aid, which we are going to discuss today. It's a government bill. The previous alliance government already saw the importance of more unemployed people entering education and training systems. In 2011, we made sure that an increased student allowance could be provided to some unemployed young people aged 20 to 24. That is why, of course, we are in favour of this Government proposal. We have some important issues and objections regarding details and implementation. Our great concern is perhaps above all about this: we see this proposal as a very small part of our overall policy of getting people to work, whereas this seems to be the great and perhaps only proposal of the government to solve this gigantic problem. Of course, we support all our reservations and proposals, but I would like to ask for the approval of Amendment No 4. If you want to read all our suggestions, you can do it. Then why are we doing this? What problem solves the start-up support? The shortest answer is unemployment. The start-up aid, of course, does not solve the whole problem of unemployment. A large proportion of those who are currently unemployed are enrolled in the Employment Service and lack basic education. The single largest group of new arrivals enrolled in the Employment Service lacks primary education. Looking generally at the unemployed who have been out of the labour market for a long time, you can see that almost all of these have gaps in their education intake. Today, if you are registered with Arbetsförmedlingen, you primarily attend courses at Arbetsförmedlingen. These courses are usually short, so if you have large gaps and major shortcomings, it is very difficult to get this need met through Arbetsförmedlingen. The Employment Service must also not compete with the ordinary education system. For example, you cannot take a welding training course and get all the licenses required to then work as a welder if you do this within Arbetsförmedlingen. Even the Public Employment Service itself says that its educations do not work and that, unfortunately, they often do more harm than good. Of course, this has been tried many times to do something about, but it has not succeeded. In fact, there are other courses that work. There are vocational training courses in adult education that work. There are many upper secondary education courses that work. Our proposal is that people should be more involved in these more accurate training courses, which work better. Of course, one can naively ask why people don't do this. The simple answer is that there are no clear and proper incentives to do so. If you are enrolled in Arbetsförmedlingen you will receive a grant and unemployment benefit from there. This amount is larger than the amount you get from the student loan and the student funds that you get if you are going to read on komvux. Why should those who have children and who today have secure income from the Employment Service give up these and instead build up a student loan? Why would someone do that – especially if you have previous experience of having difficulty getting a job and having problems with passing training courses? Why take that risk? People don't. This is an incentive and a way of making this transition much more economically justified. It is not primarily a question of increasing study motivation with this means, which is the objection we have to the proposal. We do not believe that money increases the motivation for study itself. We do not believe that this money can even make it economically possible to study. The motivation you need to have yourself. That is why we think that we could open the way for individuals to take the initiative themselves to take part in this support. Of course, someone has to make a test of whether the person needs the support, but we believe that such a system would make it more legally secure than if – as in the bill – it is only the municipality's responsibility to have outreach activities and to select those whom you think should have access to this. We want a combination of these. One can also object to this proposal by saying that a lot of people will study the same courses but receive different types of compensation and different amounts of compensation, which is unfair. That is already the case today. Some people have study funds. Some have more study funding than others. Some work at the same time. Some receive housing allowance – others do not receive housing allowance. Some receive additional supply aid. Some of them receive a start-up allowance. People can receive different types of grants even though they are reading almost the same education. I'm not saying it's simple or unproblematic. Of course it can create a sense of injustice. But it would be worse not to make sure that people get a job-- that's basically the big problem. If this can make it possible for more people to take part in larger and better training measures, which lead to jobs, then I think we should implement it. Another unclear criterion that has been set out in the bill is that in order to be able to take part of the study aid, you must not have completed upper secondary school education. Then I wonder: what if you have completed an extra-European upper secondary education? Is this equivalent to having completed upper secondary education? Anyone who has studied upper secondary education in, say, Iran 30 to 40 years ago can nevertheless be extremely far from the labour market in Sweden today. Can those who have studied much of upper secondary education but may not have completed it be allowed to study vocational training in Komvux and receive this support? This is something that the Public Employment Service also raises as a question in its referrals. We know from the past that it is much more difficult today to get the right to study vocational adult education than a pre-graduate education. For those who are farthest from the labour market, the most important thing is to just get a job, rather than to take courses that allow you to continue studying at college later. These are some of the issues we raise in our reservations. In general, however, we thank you for this proposal.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-429	Madam President, I would like We are in favour of reservation 1, with our special opinion. The Government's proposal means that students with high educational needs will receive grants instead of student loans for one year, regarding lower studies. A group of people receive grants, while other students are allowed to borrow money. Previously, the group with high educational needs has been able to borrow money and have the opportunity to write off student debts during further higher studies. We may find that a reasonable carrot. The idea behind the proposal can well be said to be good. The support is aimed at all those with high training needs, as long as the money is sufficient. So not everyone in the said group will benefit, at least not if there are enough people in question. In other words, this is not a rights-based reform. However, it is doubtful what the long-term outcome of this support will be. We already have a flora of subsidies to re-establish weak groups in the labour market, and most of these measures have produced very poor results. Of course, we should continue to try to reduce unemployment by different methods, but it is doubtful whether the motivation is sufficient for those who start to study with the current proposal but have still not started to study with the current rules. Above all, we cannot have separate rules for a group of people in society. I agree here with Per Albin Hansson's words about the fact that society should have neither cheesies nor stepchildren. We have a system of study funds that can be said to be one of the world's most generous and which, moreover, has served us well for a long time. This is a system that can be enjoyed by all people and which allows people to get an education. Let's stick to it and treat everyone equally and fairly – no piglets and no stepchildren. Today we have a benefit for those with great educational needs. Students who continue their studies at university level are given the opportunity to write off their previous loans. We think this is a reasonable and sensible order. Those who make an effort and study from a difficult starting point get a small extra carrot. I think even Per Albin would have accepted that. With today's problems, however, we too can think of a slight thumbing of Per Albin's motto about pet pigs and stepchildren. Today, there are limitations on how long you can take out student loans at primary and secondary level, and we can imagine a reduction in the limits precisely for the group with high educational needs. Finally, Madam President, the bill says that the proposal should increase social justice. We do not object to increasing social justice. In reality, however, a balance must be struck between social justice and unconditional justice, and we believe that the proposal misses this balance.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-440	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by calling for the approval of reservation No 1. Today we are discussing the start of the study's support, which is aimed at people with a short educational background so that they will have better conditions in the labour market. The major challenge in Sweden today is the strong split between the people who have faith in the future and those who do not have it and between the people who are close to the labour market and have a job and the people who are constantly excluded. I understand that this is the government's proposal to solve the challenge with those with a short educational background. But in order to bring people far away from the labour market closer, reforms are needed, and above all people need to feel that education and work pay off, that education also gives them access to a job that allows them to gain freedom, self-sufficiency and all that that entails. The most important incentive for people to educate themselves must then be that it pays to work. But it takes even more to reach this group. There is a need for stronger study and career guidance, for training links to the labour market to be even better, for labour market matching to be improved, but also for more jobs requiring lower educational backgrounds or shorter education, so-called simple jobs. This is the most important thing in order to break the division and exclusion that we see, but in these parts, unfortunately, the government's proposal shines with its absence. Sweden has one of the most generous education systems in the world with free educations from primary school up to college. We already have a very generous study aid system today. We, the Center Party, naturally want to develop this by creating more flexible systems, so that we can meet the challenges that exist. People who need further education in the middle of life and career change and people who, for example, need to study at a slower pace due to sick leave or because they have attended a special school should have the opportunity to finish their studies better. It is also important for people of higher ages to be better educated, and it requires reforms for a more flexible study system. Madam President, I would like With regard to the proposal that we are debating today on starting studies, it is clear that it is a costly reform, but also that it is difficult to demonstrate the impact of the previous recruitment grant for adult students on which the start-up grant is based. This shows, among other things, the Swedish National Audit Office's report on the contributions that existed before. The proposal also risks leading to both unfair and unnecessary bureaucracy. Giving a certain group special benefits means that students who are in the same classroom and study the same course receive different benefits. But it will also mean that people with similar conditions, but depending on where in the country they live, will have different opportunities given that it is up to the municipalities themselves to decide whether to use the support or not and also to set up the local guidelines. It creates an injustice and risks leading to unnecessary bureaucracy to use the grant. Why should some students receive special benefits when others do not? And why should some individuals who live in a particular location have access to the grant while others do not have access to it on the basis of local guidelines? I think there are important issues to consider when we are debating this today. The idea of study start-up support is also to strengthen people who often have concerns about having loans, partly because of the future prospects of the labour market, says the bill. But then the important thing must be to make sure that people feel that it pays to work, to move from exclusion to inside, that education leads to jobs and that you get guidance to find a job that is well placed to strengthen the conditions for self-sufficiency with the freedom that it entails. This is the driving force that we think is the most important one, and it is also the one that we think should be the clearest incentive for people to move from exclusion to inside.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-449	Madam President, I would like Every person needs knowledge of himself and of his surroundings. The more they understand, the greater their ability to handle their world around them. Freedom and influence are increasing. The opportunities to influence one's own life and society are thus also greater. The Left Party sees knowledge as a democratic right, and breaking social inversion to higher education is one of the greatest challenges of our time. The Left Party therefore welcomes the proposal for study start-up support but would like to point out a number of shortcomings. The Government proposes in the bill that the same rules apply in the case of illness as for those who have student funding, i.e. that it should not be possible to be part-time sick and study at half-time with study start-up support. This has been criticised by the Left Party in the past with regard to the means of study, and we are making the same criticism today. Although it is in theory possible to be on part-time sick leave, this is an economically difficult situation, in which the means of study or start-up aid is reduced, while there is no possibility of reimbursement from health insurance. Sickness benefit is paid only to students who are on full-time sick leave. As a result, students have to choose either to continue studying full-time, despite the need for part-time sick leave, or to have to finish their studies. This can cause major problems for people with long-term or chronic illnesses or functional variations to complete their studies. It also excludes many from taking part in study start-up support in order to start studying. Therefore, the Left Party believes that the Government should prepare the question of the possibility of part-time sick leave for students with student funding and student start-up support, in line with the Social Insurance Committee's proposal. Another issue that the Left Party wants to raise is the right to live. The proposal proposes that the corresponding rules for housing allowance apply both if you have study start-up support and if you have study grant. The housing allowance plays an important role in providing the security that you can manage a higher rent during your studies. However, it is important to point out that the proposed legal text means that it will be very different opportunities for students with start-up support to receive housing allowance compared to students who receive student funding. This is because, according to the proposal, students with start-up support will receive a significantly higher basic income than students with student funds. The Left Party therefore believes that students with student start-up support should have the same right to a secure housing situation as students with student funds. Therefore, it should be investigated how the right to housing allowance with start-up support can be regulated, so that it is equivalent to the right for students with student funding. The last point, Madam President, which I intend to raise is the amount of the release. We believe that those who study full-time and want to work should have it as an opportunity but not that it should be a necessity. The beneficiaries of the start-up grant are those most in need of education. Then society should send a signal about the importance of focusing on the studies. The students have different conditions to work alongside their studies. Too high a free amount will also change the view of studies as full-time employment, which they should be. This means either extending studies and postponing entry into the labour market or reducing the quality of studies. On the other hand, it should be possible for students to work during the vacations without prejudice to the start-up grant. In view of this, we propose that the release amount be set at a level that encourages students to focus on their studies. I call for the Left Party's reservation to be approved.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-461	Madam President, I would like In this bill, the government writes something that I find very interesting to consider, and that is that many people are worried about taking out loans to invest in studies. We have this debate on the same day as Finansinspektionen warns that many people are taking extremely high loans to finance their real estate business. One can think about what tax systems and incentives we have in Sweden when people hesitate to invest money in studies but are fully prepared to borrow large sums to buy a property. The motivation to invest in knowledge and education depends of course on the outcome. Everyone knows that primary education is not enough to enter the labour market, but it usually requires upper secondary school. When it comes to higher education, it is natural that you take larger loans and more responsibility to finance your education. But, as I said, many are concerned about taking out loans for further study. The government should think about how to make more people think it is reasonable to invest in education because it provides an income, just as you can get a income if you invest money in a property. But the government does exactly the opposite. It makes it harder for people to enter the labour market. We have high thresholds into the Swedish labour market. For those who come to Sweden and lack Swedish education, it is particularly difficult to get in. That's because we have high entry wages and few simple jobs, that is, jobs that you can take when you don't have a longer education. As long as nothing is done about this basic problem, that it is difficult to enter the labour market, people are looking for other opportunities. In addition, the social partners make it even more difficult to enter the labour market by constantly raising the minimum wages, and the government's high taxes help to make work pay. It is reasonable that the state and the public are generous when it comes to primary school studies. That is why the Liberals have also come to the conclusion that we should have start-up support, and we ask for approval for the part dealing with studies at primary school level. But the higher you get in the system, the more reasonable it is that you are responsible for part of the effort yourself. The Government's proposal has some shortcomings. Fredrik Christensson was previously on the subject. It can be different in different municipalities. The municipalities that want to introduce this can do it the way they want it while others can ignore it. There will be different conditions for those who study in the same classroom. We've had that situation before. Some were then given loans to study at Komvux, while others were supported or even paid to do the same. It is also difficult to see the effects of this. It is difficult to demonstrate that this type of aid, which may be introduced by some municipalities, is recruiting among those who already find it difficult to enter the labour market – at least if you look at what it has looked like in the past. There is another problem, and that is that the incentive to move quickly to high school can reduce this. It is better to wait a while and see if you can get better conditions later. Madam President, I would like Start-up support is good when it is aimed at primary school studies. Therefore, the Liberals will support the bill in that part. But in other parts this type of support is not needed. Other support is needed, and we already have it through the study aid system. Madam President, I would like The basic problem is that it is so difficult to get into the labour market. The important thing for many people is lower thresholds into the labour market and start-up jobs with a little lower pay so that they can easily enter the labour market. They will then have a great opportunity to move forward in the system. No one should get stuck in exclusion, no one should get stuck in a job that is too simple and no one should get stuck in the study system. There should be ways forward, and here is the start-up support part. But more is needed. I request the approval of reservation 3.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-475	Madam President, I would like The report is about a new study aid that the government wants to introduce, a study start-up aid. The support is aimed at people with short education and high educational needs who would otherwise not have chosen to study. It is aimed at people who turn 25 during the calendar year and up to the calendar year they turn 56. The person should be unemployed, and the studies should be at the basic level. The start-up grant can be paid out for a maximum of 50 weeks of full-time studies. It is also possible to study part-time, at least 50%, and then the studies can be conducted up to 100 weeks. The Swedish study support system is one of the world's most generous. However, there are shortcomings that the government wants to do something about. For those under the age of 25 there are different parts of the student grant. You can study with the means of study the usual way, i.e. go from upper secondary school directly to higher education. This group usually has study motivation, and thanks to upper secondary school studies they have a better situation in the labour market. They're doing fine. Other young people can study under youth contracts, which can also be combined with a traineeship or a job. The Swedish student support is part of the education policy and aims to get a high level of study participation among both men and women, but will also equalise differences between individuals and groups in society. It will also contribute to greater social justice and have a good impact on the national economy. The possibility of education is crucial for the personal development of the individual, for self-determination and for participation in society. Therefore, the study funding system needs to be developed to stimulate those people who would otherwise not have taken part in education and who have a difficult situation in the labour market. There is a group of low-skilled people who are unemployed but who are still not taking the step towards education. Perhaps they dare or do not want to go into debt because they do not know whether they will be able to repay the loans. Above all, a little older people who need to learn at basic level are reluctant to take out loans. This proposal is a very good opportunity for them. The idea of the start-up grant is to reach those people who today do not take the step to study. The fact that the start-up grant contains only one grant component and no loan gives people the chance to try out studies without having to take out a loan. The support should be targeted at those most in need of education, those with a short education and those who are unemployed. These people are often more vulnerable than those who have a job. All people are different and need different opportunities and support. Some need a lot of support, others less. It's just like during school. At school, we do not question the fact that some children in need of special support receive it. It is the same with adults: Some need more support than others to get started with studies. The proposal has a key role to play in enabling them, in cooperation with the Public Employment Service, to use the start-up grant as a tool to promote the transition to studies for those in need of basic education. It is about active work to find and motivate individuals. The Public Employment Service, for its part, has a good knowledge of the target group that the start-up grant aims to recruit. This is also the big difference between study start-up support and other forms of study funding. The study start-up system is not rights-driven but a support that municipalities can use to recruit adults for studies that they would not otherwise have chosen. It must be voluntary for municipalities to participate in recruitment activities and use start-up support. The reason for this is that the circumstances vary greatly between different municipalities. Therefore, the Government has chosen to keep the proposal somewhat open and to allow the municipalities to develop guidelines, either individually or in collaboration with other municipalities. In the work on the guidelines, the municipalities must seek the views of the Social Insurance Agency, public education and the social partners. The municipalities have very different needs and conditions, and the government has chosen to take this into account. Madam President, I would like Step by step, we have built up the Swedish study support system to reach as many people as possible. Those groups that otherwise end up a little outside society because of low education and unemployment will now have a chance to develop themselves further. Because with education comes insight, self-confidence and self-esteem. To get a job that you are trained for, through vocational training, and to have a profession – this if something strengthens the individual, who can proudly say: I can, and I want! I therefore support the proposal in report 2016/17.UbU20 and reject the motions.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-492	Madam President, I would like It was interesting to hear Lena Emilsson's speech. Equivalence and justice are two words that have characterized social democracy throughout history and which are often given great importance. When I read the proposal and heard Lena Emilsson's speech, I reacted to the two very words: equivalence and justice. As I raised in my own speech, it becomes problematic when students in the same class will have different conditions– that is one part. The second part is that the aid is directed at the municipalities and that they can choose to participate or not. They can choose to have local guidelines, which then become different around the country. In what way does Lena Emilsson think that it is an equal and fair system for the people who get the opportunity to take part in it?
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-496	Madam President, I would like Equality and justice can also mean that all people are given the chance and opportunity to which they are entitled. It's just like at school: Some students have greater needs, and then they get this support. The same is true here: Adults who need support in the study aid system should also be able to get it. It is important to encourage people to move forward in many ways, and this proposal does. Here you give many an opportunity to study that they otherwise would not have dared or wanted to try. Justice does not always have to be the same for everyone, because we do not have such a society today.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-498	Madam President, I would like Lena Emilsson pointed out that all people should have the same chance and that adults who need support should get it. But my question was about municipal inequality and that it is up to the municipalities themselves to decide whether or not to introduce the aid, what guidelines the aid should have and to what target group the aid should be distributed to. This question was not answered in the first reply. I hope that Lena Emilsson can develop her answer and tell us what kind of justice and equivalence there is when there is a great difference between the people – the individuals who consider themselves in need of this support to get motivation to study further – who can get the opportunity for support, depending on which side of the municipal border they live on.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-500	Madam President, I would like The target group has been established by the government. It is clear from the proposal that the aid is intended for adults over 25 years of age, or from the calendar year in which they reach 25 years of age. It should be people who have been unemployed, who have a low educational background and who have a great need for education and training when it comes to getting involved in the labour market. The target group is therefore established. All municipalities have different conditions, and the people who live there have completely different conditions. This is what the government has taken heights for. There should be room for municipalities when they write their guidelines to take height for these differences. That is an important issue.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-502	Madam President, I would like The Education Committee is today debating the Government's proposal for study start-up support. How much difference can a start-up grant make in an individual's life? To dare take the step to the school bench can for some be like climbing Mount Everest. When I visit different places, I meet many people, all with different life stories. A while ago, I met a young woman who told me how hard it was for her to have not finished her high school studies. She was 28 years old, and time ran away from her. She dropped out of high school because she was mentally ill, and she became one of those home - sitting students. The years have rolled on, and she has had an internship and been on sick leave and a job seeker. But much has fallen on poor self-confidence, bad timing, and so the thing she is most ashamed to say: that she has not finished high school. She finds that more embarrassing and embarrassing every year. I asked her why she didn't just finish it. Well, she said, of course I should, but I don't have any money, and everyone around me says it's totally dangerous to borrow money and go into debt. They say: You don't even know if you get a job just because you finished high school, and then you're there with a loan of many thousands. Maybe you won't even finish. So I don't think I'll ever dare take a student loan, she said. Probably I will never see Kristina again, but I hope she will get the opportunity to take part in the start-up support and get on with life, fix her upper secondary school degree and eventually get into the labour market. Perhaps she even dares to believe so much in herself that she takes study funds and reads on. It's not utopian. Madam President, I would like What difference can study start-up support make for society? One thing we all agree on is that having completed comprehensive school and obtained a high school degree is for the vast majority of young people the door to the labour market or higher education. It is therefore important for young people to be given the opportunity to complete their studies. It is also the prerequisite for us to have the labour force that society needs. To get there, the years in school and preschool must be of the high quality that we want, a school that gives all students a good start in life and the opportunity to develop as a person and have confidence in their ability. A great responsibility rests, of course, on primary school, where students should get the knowledge that leads them to the qualifications required to get to upper secondary school. But even when the investments in primary school are large and well-targeted, the reality is that some do not come all the way. Some of these people are therefore quite far from being able to get a job or to get on with their education. Giving people a new chance to acquire their upper secondary skills, so that they have a chance to enter the labour market, is extremely valuable, not only for the individual but also for society. Madam President, I would like A concept that is central to the Green Party is new life chances. Not all people get right in life right. Mental ill-health, addiction, long sick leave or other circumstances may, for example, mean that upper secondary school education will never be completed. We want a policy that gives people an opportunity to continue rebooting in life. It has so much to gain from both society and the individual. I support the proposal in the report and reject the motions.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-512	Madam President, I would like So it was time for Parliament to take a position on the annual evaluation of monetary policy by the Committee on Finance, and I shall begin by calling for the proposal in the report to be approved. The Riksbank's presentation of monetary policy 2016, which is the first of two written reports that the Riksbank is required to report annually to the Committee on Finance under the Riksbank's Act, is a basis for our position. We have also taken note of external assessors' views on the conduct of monetary policy. It is about KI, the OECD and the IMF. We have also held open hearings with the Governor of the Riksbank and on each occasion one of the five Deputy Governors of the Riksbank. In addition, we have now carried out external and independent reviews of monetary policy on three different occasions, every four years. The last, by Mervyn King and Marvin Goodfriend, was discussed by the Riksdag last June. In connection with this, the Riksdag urged the Government to set up a parliamentary inquiry into the monetary policy framework and the Riksbank Act. Such a decision was taken by the government last December. Madam President, I would like In connection with last year's evaluation, the Committee on Finance called for a discussion on the effects of the extreme monetary policy of recent years with negative interest rates and comprehensive bond purchases. We therefore now welcome the fact that the Riksbank has satisfied the committee in this year's evaluation and presents such an analysis for the period 2015–2016. It indicates that monetary policy has had the intended effect – interest rates on lending and deposits to households and businesses have fallen, and the krona has weakened more than it would otherwise have done. The negative effects have been relatively few – cash withdrawals have not increased, banks' profitability remains high, confidence in economic development is high among households as well as companies and liquidity in the bond market has only been affected to a limited extent by bond purchases. On the other hand, it is well known that increased asset prices especially for housing and thus households' increased indebtedness increase the risks of the financial system in the Swedish economy. Madam President, I would like The analysis we have now received is important. But there is another aspect that the committee would like to see the Riksbank highlight in future in its evaluations. It is about the distributional effects of the monetary policy conducted. The Riksbank, like other central banks, has used large-scale government bond purchases in addition to large interest rate reductions to raise interest rates. As a result, the link between monetary policy and rising asset prices, such as housing, has become more visible. The question of how household wealth and income are distributed in society affects monetary policy's opportunities in general, and the conduct of monetary policy is likely to also affect the distribution of income and wealth. The committee believes that this is worth analysing further. Madam President, I would like In 2016, the Riksbank, like other central banks, continued an extremely expansionary monetary policy. Inflation and inflation expectations continued to rise in 2016, partly as a result of rising energy prices. However, over the whole period 2014 – 2016, inflation has been well below the two per cent target. The forecast for when interest rate increases can come has now been moved to mid-2018. Nevertheless, the committee sees that the expansionary monetary policy has contributed to high growth rates in the Swedish economy and that unemployment has fallen. The committee notes that, during the period, there has been broad agreement in the Board of Governors on the conduct of monetary policy, but that in fact in 2016 there has been some disagreement about how expansionary the policy should be. We have seen this disagreement continue into 2017. The committee also notes that the Riksbank has either worked on or analysed and commented on the recommendations made by Goodfriend and King in connection with the latest external evaluation. These include the work on the interest rate forecasts and forecasting methods and, as has been noted in the spring, the work on possibly changing target variables. The Riksbank has now sent out a proposal for a referral which means that, on the basis of the assessment, inflation will vary around 2 per cent, they are considering changing target variable from KPI to CPIF, i.e. the consumer price index with fixed interest rates, and a variation band of ± 1 per cent. If there is a change, it can be applied in connection with the monetary policy meeting held by the Executive Board in September of this year. Madam President, I would like The Committee on Finance also welcomes the fact that the Government has set up a parliamentary inquiry, the so-called Riksbank Committee, in order to review the monetary policy framework and the Sveriges Riksbank Act. However, it is important that the committee states in this context that the starting point of this study is that the objective of price stability and the legal framework of an independent Riksbank have been successful.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-521	Madam President, I would like In just a few months we celebrate three years since we had a repo rate higher than zero. At the same time, we have lived with negative interest rates for more than two years. It is a historically unique situation. It becomes no less unique when we can see that this is a fact despite high growth, large and rising resource utilisation and significantly decreasing unemployment. At the same time, inflation has been very low – over the period it has been well below 2 per cent, and it remains well below 2 per cent. Our task is to evaluate monetary policy, in this case the period 2014- 2016, where 2014 – 2015 has already been dealt with before. Then what are we going to evaluate? Before trying to discuss that definition, I would like to emphasise that the most important and essential thing from my perspective is, firstly, to affirm the independence of the Riksbank, that is, its independence from political governance. Secondly, we shall safeguard the Riksbank's institutional credibility. So what are we going to evaluate? It is the Riksbank's monetary policy, but from what perspectives? If you listen to the general debate and the discussion about the Riksbank and the conduct of monetary policy, you will soon get the impression that the Riksbank's credibility stands and falls with how inflation develops, i.e. that a tenth of a person up or down is crucial to how confidence in the Riksbank is weakened or strengthened. In this context, it should also be said that the Riksbank itself has designed a target of 2 per cent inflation – based on the Riksbank Act, which expresses the same as maintaining a fixed monetary value. A quiet wonder is that neither the legislator nor the Riksbank in their interpretation could imagine minus interest at all as much as 20 years after the interpretation of the Sveriges Riksbank Act. The question you can ask yourself is what is really the purpose of a fixed monetary value, that is, with what you then knew about with a history of high inflation and, at the same time, a certainty of the harmfulness of deflation. What is meant by a fixed monetary value, and why has the inflation target been defined as it has been? Yes, the purpose of monetary policy leads us to the definition that it should support the objectives of general economic policy in order to achieve sustainable growth with high employment. In addition to stabilising inflation around the inflation target, it will aim to stabilise production and employment around long-term and sustainable development pathways. In this way, the definition should rather be a flexible inflation target policy. Therefore, it would be a highly simplified assessment if the evaluation were to be made on the basis of whether the Riksbank had reached the inflation target or not. In addition, of course, it cannot be isolated without taking into account other factors, such as the fiscal policy pursued during the period, how identified imbalances have been managed, how identified necessary reforms have been dealt with alternatively, the importance of the outside world and so on. Monetary policy needs to be put in context, and it would be desirable to focus more on and have a greater discussion on how monetary policy and fiscal policy could – and should – complement each other. In addition, of course, the Riksbank will also protect an efficient and secure payment system, which is interpreted as taking into account developments in and possible risks that can be built up within the financial markets. So, how's it going? Yes, we note that the Riksbank has not reached the inflation target and has also received criticism for this. However, if you criticise this, you must also define what you think the Riksbank should have done instead. What would be the alternative for a better achievement of goals? We have had repo rates of zero or less for almost three years – minus interest for more than two years. At the same time, the purchase of bonds has been announced to accumulate 275 billion. What else should have been done? It is perhaps relevant to raise the question of focusing on the inflation target and maintaining its credibility rather than risk undermining its credibility in order to take insufficient account of other objectives or responsibilities. In other words, an all-inclusive target of achieving an inflation target of 2% could risk building financial imbalances through highly expansionary monetary policy, especially if no or too little consideration is given to what happens with, for example, asset values – and especially if the analysis of why this happens fails. I believe that an evaluation of monetary policy cannot only be carried out in isolation to achieve inflation targets. Fortunately, there are now parallel discussions on these other considerations and effects, and although the debate is sometimes one-sided and simplified, there is awareness. It is therefore positive that the Riksbank's report contains in-depth sections on the impact of monetary policy, which provides further important information for the evaluation. Of course, it would be even better to broaden and deepen the general discussion on these issues. Has monetary policy been successful? Yes, what we can see is that the inflation target has not been reached, while a very expansionary policy has been pursued. We continue to have −0.5 per cent repo rate, reduced interest rate path and massive bond purchases. In addition, there is also preparedness for currency intervention. The message is clear: the inflation target should be reached! Hopefully, however, it will not happen at any price. If a deeper objective of the 2% inflation target is to contribute to economic growth, this effect has been achieved more than well – even if this has taken place without the desired level of inflation. If so, is this good or bad? Yes, the question is whether inflation has its own purpose and, if so, whether too much focus is placed on this without evaluating the objectives achieved for what we really want to achieve with the inflation target from the outset. Of course, it is positive that monetary policy has so strongly contributed to growth, which in 2016 amounted to 3.3 per cent, and that resource utilisation is high and rising and unemployment is coming down. At the same time, there are more reforms that need to be implemented in order for us to have a better functioning economy, and with them we can assume that we will have an even better impact on monetary policy. Fiscal and monetary policy must go hand in hand and work together. Identified imbalances must be taken into account. Dysfunctions and rigid labour and housing markets need to be reformed. These are important factors to take into account in an evaluation of monetary policy, i.e. the conditions under which monetary policy has been given. Of course, the possible imbalances that are being built up and at risk of financial stability are worrying, and I assume that the Riksbank is following developments with rapidly rising asset values carefully. But the Riksbank cannot solve these problems alone. Monetary policy is a blunt tool for many of these issues, but it may become more sharp – provided that the policy otherwise contributes its share. Madam President, I would like I believe that the Riksbank has done what it has been able to do under the conditions it has had. In addition, there are other factors that have changed the Riksbank's possibilities. For example, the effects of globalisation on production and capital flows should be mentioned, just as the importance of exchange rate changes must be taken into account. Having said that, and with an understanding of the difficulties and complexity of the Riksbank's mission, I believe, however, that the Riksbank's policy has largely benefited the Swedish economy. At the same time, I would like to highlight some concern about unsound rising asset values, which few would be considered sustainable in the long run. This cannot be completely ignored from the perspective of the Riksbank, I believe. However, after this little passus and my personal small reflections, I would like to urge the Riksdag to approve the Committee on Finance's report on monetary policy for the period 2014-2016.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-537	Madam President, I would like Although the Riksbank's policy rate remains stable at minus, it is moving in the monetary policy debate. For a long time, there has been a debate on the measurement of the inflation target. In practice, the Riksbank has in fact already abandoned the target of 2 per cent of the consumer price index, the CPI, in favour of 2 per cent of the CPIF, i.e. the consumer price index with fixed interest rates, where the Riksbank's own interest rate changes are not included. Now the Riksbank has proposed to switch to the new target. I think that is basically good. But it is a rather strange order that we have, that it is the technocrats at the Riksbank who determine the objective of monetary policy, not the elected parliament, that the Riksbank is actually subject to. If this is to be the case, the parliamentary committee that is to look at a new Sveriges Riksbank Act is now investigating. That the Riksdag should decide on the objective and that the Riksbank should take the decisions was something that King and Goodfriend recommended last year in their evaluation report to the Committee on Finance on monetary policy. It is also a demand that the Left Party has been pushing for over a decade. Based on these objectives, the Riksbank will then independently design the ongoing monetary policy. This will create a clear division of responsibilities. The elected representatives in the Riksdag decide on the policy, and the Riksbank implements it. Although it is the case that the Riksbank currently has the power to decide on the target, one can consider the process that has now been initiated. Dialogue with the Riksdag has been minimal. Instead, it has sent its proposal for a new case for referral to 50 referral bodies. The Riksdag should of course not be a consultation body, but one can expect more dialogue and anchoring between the Riksdag and the Riksbank, I think. The second thing the Riksbank proposes is to introduce a variation band of ± 1 per cent from the target of 2 per cent. To point out that monetary policy is not an exact science where you can exactly do the goal, I think, can be good. But it is important that the variation band is not used as an argument to consistently miss the goal for a long time. We can see from a historical perspective that, above all, it has been below the 2% target. It has also led to a failure to stimulate the economy to the extent needed, which has had the cost of losing more jobs. The risk with the variation band is that the Riksdag's accountability towards the Riksbank becomes even more unclear and that the Riksbank can achieve its goals regardless of how it acts. It is therefore important that the Parliamentary Committee should also review how new governors are appointed so that it can be made more transparent and transparent compared to today. We also see a dawning discussion in Sweden about whether the target should be higher than 2 percent. More and more economists argue that the height of fall should be higher so that the economy can be stimulated more easily with expansionary monetary policy when needed. For example, the Riksbank has been conducting an extremely expansionary monetary policy for a long time, and the interest rate has finally been raised to 1.9 per cent. At the same time, it has been signalled that even more expansionary measures, such as currency intervention, could be envisaged. The problem is that when you use the really strong weapons in the arsenal, there is also a risk – in addition to inflation rising – that it will lead to negative effects that will lead to a deterioration in financial stability. We therefore need to strengthen the discussions in Sweden, I think, about raising the inflation target to 3 pr ocent so that the height of fall is greater at the next crisis. Such a debate is taking place elsewhere in the world. Furthermore, I hope that the parliamentary inquiry into the Riksbank Act will raise its eyes and look at the possibility of having, alongside the inflation target, a complementary objective for the development of the economy. I think it would be good if monetary policy also had a target of employment and productivity against which the inflation target could be weighed. In some situations, the Riksbank may need to see the economy as a whole, rather than just staring blindly at the inflation target, in order for Sweden to have a positive economic development that leads to prosperity and financial stability in the long term. I support the proposal in the report.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-546	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants Sweden to be a country that consistently stands up for democracy, human rights, peace and disarmament. Sweden has every opportunity to be such a voice. Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström's criticism of Saudi Arabia, the recognition of Palestine and feminist foreign policy are good examples of how Sweden can lead and make a difference. However, if Sweden wants to become a credible voice for democracy and human rights in the world, we cannot continue to arm countries that are in war and states that commit gross and extensive human rights violations – countries where people cannot organise and express themselves freely, countries where oppositionists and human rights defenders risk being imprisoned, tortured and even executed, countries where women lack fundamental rights and are subjected to abuse. If Sweden really wants to stand up for democracy, we cannot at the same time strengthen dictatorships and authoritarian regimes with weapons. These weapons help legitimise repression and authoritarian systems. Weapon purchases also draw resources away from other important areas, such as education, maternity care and infrastructure, and thus contribute to increased poverty. The double standards of Swedish arms exports are not least evident in North Africa and the Middle East. While the government pursues a feminist foreign policy and talks about women's rights, Sweden armes belligerent dictatorships that systematically violate women's rights. In Saudi Arabia, for example, women are treated almost as serfs. Women do not have the right to work, study at a higher level or travel abroad without permission from their husband. To this country we export weapons. It is difficult to understand how this goes with a feminist foreign policy. Sweden is one of the world's leading arms exporters. Buyers include a wide range of dictatorships, belligerent states and countries that commit gross and widespread violations of human rights. In 2016, Sweden has exported weapons to Saudi Arabia, Qatar, Pakistan, Oman, United Arab Emirates, Singapore, Malaysia, Mexico, Thailand and Jordan. All these states are classified as dictatorships or have major democratic shortcomings, according to Freedom House. The need for stronger legislation to prevent the export of arms to dictatorships is clear. Sweden's regulations for the export of armaments need to be fundamentally changed. The goals of the Left Party are clear. We want to see a world in peace, without weapons. Therefore, we believe that Sweden's arms exports will be completely phased out in the long term. There is today a large majority in Parliament and in the Swedish people who want to ban arms exports to dictatorships. In an opinion poll conducted by Amnesty International in 2014, four out of five Swedes replied that Sweden should introduce a ban on arms exports to dictatorships. On 19 May 2011, the Parliament decided to strengthen the rules on arms exports to non-democratic states. But we are still waiting for more stringent legislation. At the same time, there are increasing signals that a clear ban on arms exports to dictatorships will not be introduced. This is deeply worrying. The Left Party believes that the government should return to the Riksdag with strong proposals for new regulations regarding Swedish arms exports as soon as possible and at the latest by the turn of the year 2017/18. It is high time for a new strict armaments legislation that puts respect for human rights first. Mr President, I would like to On 25 February 2016, the European Parliament adopted a resolution calling for an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia in connection with the country's warfare against Yemen, which in several cases is considered a war crime by Amnesty International, among others, when schools, hospitals, markets and mosques have been attacked. Thousands of civilians have been killed and forced to flee. A former poor country is in a humanitarian disaster. The European Parliament believes that the export of arms to Saudi Arabia is contrary to the EU's own rules. Parliament's decision instructs the High Representative of the European Union for Foreign and Security Affairs to produce a proposal for an arms embargo against Saudi Arabia. The decision is also a clear signal to Member States to stop exporting arms to Saudi Arabia. The Left Party supports the call in the European Parliament's resolution and believes that the government should work within the EU to introduce an arms embargo against Saudi Arabia. In March 2016, as a consequence of the decision of the European Parliament, the Netherlands decided to impose a national arms embargo on Saudi Arabia with reference to both Saudi Arabia's massive bombings of Yemen and Saudi Arabia's mass executions. The Left Party believes that Sweden should follow the Dutch example. Sweden needs to introduce a clear ban on arms exports to dictatorships, belligerent states and regimes that commit gross and extensive violations of human rights. An arms embargo on Saudi Arabia can be an important first step.
i-Y3Pe2JtDYiKRMgCbNdtDqn	Mr President, I would like to Today, the report of the Committee on Foreign Affairs is being debated in response to the government's letter on strategic export control in 2016 concerning war and dual-use items. It is an annual debate. When we stood here last year, many of us expressed great disappointment that the government was unable to present a new bill to Parliament with a new legislation that would make arms exports to dictatorships impossible. The representatives of the government parties claimed that such a proposal would come in the spring of 2017. It never did, and now we're standing here again. To express what? Possibly acquiescence. However, the Government's bill list for the Parliamentary Session 2016/ 17 states that a proposal for enhanced export control of war material will be submitted to the Riksdag next month. If it does, it remains to be seen, but it certainly looks quite dark. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs a strong defence industry. Through participation in international cooperation in the field of defence equipment, Sweden secures long-term security and defence policy interests. The Christian Democrats believe that trade in defence equipment with certain countries is important and defensible. Exporting and importing war material is part of Swedish defence policy. However, this presupposes that there are clear rules for who is allowed to be the buyer of the equipment we sell. This is absolutely necessary. Otherwise, trade will clash with the values that are the cornerstones of our democracy. Sweden describes itself as a humanitarian power and a country that works to save lives. Sweden also stands for human rights, freedom and democracy. But you cannot call yourself a feminist voice in the world with credibility if, at the same time, you arm women's oppressive regimes. You cannot export weapons to dictatorships and at the same time claim to protect human rights and freedoms. It is not good enough to export war material with economic arguments to some of the world's worst dictatorships. Especially negligent is it when the government seems to ignore the fact that at least in the investigation there was a consensus between the parliamentary parties that export control had to be tightened up. The Parliament has thus ordered a tightening up of the law and is clear that respect for human rights and the democratic status of the recipient country should be central to the licensing process. If there are serious deficiencies or serious and widespread violations, this constitutes an obstacle to exports. Since 2001, the Christian Democrats have a clear position in the Party's programme of principles for a democracy criterion. For us, three questions were the focus of the investigation. It was a clear democracy criterion and a ban on exporting arms to non-democrats. We want the ban also to apply to consequential supplies, as today the concept seems to have the consequence that exports can last year after year even if the country is moving in the wrong direction. At the same time, the transparency of the Export Control Council must be increased. Without accountability towards parties, both the Council and new legislation are in danger of being toothless. Mr President, I would like to We know that in the world we live, weapons must be used to store innocent civilians or when violence is used for oppressive purposes. The balance we have to face all the time and what we have to balance is that the more weapons there are in circulation, the more insecure our world becomes. Many of the deadly conflicts we are now seeing in the world are not happening with the most advanced and sophisticated weapons, but because of the uncontrolled proliferation of light weapons. Martin Luther King caught in a speech the doubleness in which we humans suffer and operate. He said: We speak devotedly of peace, but at the same time we are working tirelessly to prepare the war. Mr President, I would like to We need new armaments legislation. With a new enhanced export control, Sweden would take a clear step away from belonging to the countries that talk about peace but are preparing the war. I am in favour of reservation 2 in paragraph 1 of new armaments legislation.
i-BzF3UJMF5CPbbj9FXMytcz	Mr President, I would like to This debate is about the government's letter on strategic export control. In this letter, the Government describes the Swedish export control policy on war material and dual-use items in 2016. The letter also contains an account of the exports that have occurred during the year. In addition, cooperation within the EU and in other international fora is described on issues related to strategic export control of both military and dual-use items. Mr President, I would like to The control of exports of armaments is necessary to meet both our national objectives and our international commitments by ensuring that the products taken out of Sweden go to us acceptable recipient countries according to established guidelines. Armaments may only be exported if there are security or defence policy reasons for it and this is not contrary to Sweden's foreign policy. The licensing process is carried out in accordance with the Swedish Guidelines on Armaments Exports, the EU Common Position on Arms Exports and the United Nations Arms Trade Treaty. Mr President, I would like to The multilateral agreements and instruments on disarmament and non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction are important expressions of the international community's efforts to prevent the proliferation of such weapons. By controlling the trade in dual-use items, which are mainly technologies that can be used for the production of weapons of mass destruction, proliferation can be prevented. It is a work whose objectives Sweden fully shares. For this reason, strict and effective national export controls are required. Export control is a key instrument enabling individual states to fulfil their international commitments in the field of non-proliferation. Mr President, I would like to This is the 33rd time that the government describes its export control policy in a letter to Parliament. The first letter on strategic export control was sent in 1985. At the time, Sweden was one of the first countries in Europe to begin to account in a transparent manner for the past year's activities in this area. The letter has since evolved from a brief compilation of Swedish arms exports to a comprehensive account of Swedish export control policy in its entirety. More statistical data can now be provided thanks to better information processing systems and more transparent policies. In parallel with the Swedish accounts, the EU Member States have since 2000 gradually developed a common and detailed report. The government is constantly seeking greater transparency in the area of export control, which we, as parliamentarians, naturally welcome. Mr President, I would like to In addition to contributing to parliamentary transparency in Sweden's export control policy, the letter aims to provide a basis for a broader discussion on issues related to export control of war and dual-use items, as this debate in this House expresses. Mr President, I would like to I would like to conclude by providing the following information for preventive purposes, because I believe that the issue will come. I asked the minister responsible yesterday and was told that there will be a bill on the war material export investigation before 21 June, which will be three weeks from today. With this, Mr President, I would like to support the committee's proposal and reject the reservations.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-574	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for our reservation to be approved, which I forgot during my speech. I was pleased to hear that the bill is coming, Krister Örnfjänder, because that is exactly what I was going to ask about. We have waited a long time now for this bill that has been delayed already before, so this feels positive. Nevertheless, I would like to ask you how you view the export of war material to dictatorships, whether it should be stopped altogether. I would also like to ask how you view the European Parliament's decision to impose sanctions on Saudi Arabia. Saudi Arabia's warfare in Yemen has led to the deaths of 6,000 people this year, and half of them are civilians and children. The battles with the massive bombings have left the country in ruins, and 80 percent of the country's population is dependent on humanitarian aid. This is a major humanitarian disaster. Several of the attacks are described as war crimes. Do you not think, Krister Eagle feather, that it is time to impose an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia?
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-578	Mr President, I would like to I do not think that we should be involved in the export of dual-use war material to countries that use it against their own people or their neighbours. That is my basic principle. I assume that we will address these points when we, together, all eight parties, are not going to draw up the proposal itself, but the decision in Parliament regarding the new rules. Then we will discuss the points together. I assume, then, that we will go much further than we are doing today with regard to the regulation itself.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-580	Mr President, I would like to That sounds good, and I very much hope that we will have this strict legislation that puts a total ban on arms exports to dictatorships, belligerent states and countries that violate human rights. We look forward to that debate and discussion. You did not answer the question of how you view an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia at this time, Krister Örnfjäder. On 25 February 2016, the EU adopted the resolution calling for an arms embargo on Saudi Arabia in response to the country's warfare in Yemen. In this connection, the Socialist Members also voted in favour of this embargo, and I find it a little strange that you are not doing this in Parliament. Why do you vote differently in Brussels and Stockholm?
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-582	Mr President, I would like to In fact, I answered the question about Saudi Arabia, but I did so without saying the name of any individual country. I want all countries to be treated equally. The prerequisite for having these guidelines and a regulatory system is that it should be applicable to all countries in the situations that arise when an application comes in regardless of whether they are called Saudi Arabia or something else. So I think I answered that question. I believe that action should be taken regardless of the name of the country. You had another question, Lotta Johnsson Fornarve, but now the speaking time is up. I'm sorry, and I hope you're still happy with the answer.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-584	Mr President, I would like to Two weeks ago we debated human rights in this House. At that time, four Social Democratic representatives debated, and the bench line here was full. I would therefore like to begin by congratulating Krister Örnfjäder, who, although the bench line is gaping empty here, is again trying to defend the colours of the government this year as to why arms export legislation is delaying. We've been waiting a long time. Last year, you, Krister Örnfjäder, replied to me when I asked why it takes so long: I don't know, but I'd rather wait six months or a year to get a good product than get something that doesn't win the Parliament's approval. Like I said, we've waited longer than that. It has been two years since the Committee submitted its proposal for enhanced export control. The proposal has a majority in this House, but it does not seem that the proposal of the KEX investigation has won the approval of the government. Or does the proposal have it?
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-587	Mr President, I would like to I also think it should be exciting to hear if it has won the government's approval. I assume that the government is so wise that it will present a proposal that will have a broad majority behind it, as the KEX investigation had. I also assume that the time has been used well since we last spoke to deliver a good product. Something else wouldn't be so nice. If I may defend my comrades, now that I have some time left, I would like to say that they are currently training other party comrades in foreign policy, and it happened to coincide with this point of debate. I think that's acceptable.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-589	Mr President, I would like to I understand that the information on this between the government and the members of the committee has been somewhat inadequate. Expectations are sky-high now that we have waited this long, and it will be interesting to follow which product is coming. When we do not have new legislation in place, uncertainty about the government's ambitions continues. You wonder what the government really wants. I mentioned earlier that there were many of us in the debate on human rights who said fine words, and here we are being put to the test – are we standing up for them or not? Let me take the example of the Philippines. There Duterte does not shun any means whatsoever in the war on drugs. In this context, Sweden recently opened an embassy in Manila, and at the same time also opened a Swedish defence group office there with the hope of being able to sell its products to the country in the upcoming rearmament. What does Krister Eagle feather think? How should we deal with arms exports to a country like the Philippines where the President behaves in the disgusting way he does?
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-592	Mr President, I would like to Now there will be some general foreign policy here, but it does well in itself nothing because you still have two minutes in a line like this. There are a number of Heads of Government who have taken office in recent years and have not contributed to positive developments, including in the Philippines. When it was planned for this embassy, it was a much better democratic situation in the Philippines, in my opinion, than it was after the presidential elections. The fact that the government then chose to pursue the very establishment of the embassy has several different reasons. Among other things, there are voices in the Philippines which say that they want our presence there because they feel that it is a security, an opportunity to go on running an opposition policy. It is a way that we have used in other countries too on other occasions where the regime itself may not have been the most positive in that country. I hope that something good will happen in the Philippines that will allow you to go back to the situation that prevailed earlier with a different attitude to people's value. Then I am talking about the value of the citizens of their own country.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-595	Mr President, I would like to The context of this debate reminds many of Nobel Laureate Beckett's play in anticipation of Godot. Although I now see in the Chamber that we are waiting for the last reported speaker, it was not him I intended but the long-awaited bill that now Krister Örnfjäder has cracked the news that it is on its way and is closer than it has been before. Having said that, I would like to stay on the literary trail and go to another Nobel laureate. I want to mention a quote from Kipling that was written on one of the dining room walls of our old district regiments. Now there's not a quote from the Jungle Book. On the dining room wall it said: Gud and the soldier we venerate when in times of danger they stand by us. But when the danger is gone and the casks are filled, then we forget Gud and despise the soldier. I want to put it in context. Many of us remember a rather bitter debate here in this House in 2007 about signal intelligence. It was a debate that was held in a partly different situation than today. Perhaps not many people remember the divisive debate. Now we look forward to the bill on arms exports. It is based on a thorough and broad parliamentary investigation with the benefits of this instrument that parliamentarians have long had to bear various difficult issues against each other. Then, according to good Swedish tradition, they have had this out for a broad referral. We are now looking forward with excitement to the government's combined analysis and results of the initial values. When the Committee on Foreign Affairs discusses it is a bit of a competition about who is the best. But arms exports have no intrinsic value. It is the Swedish security interests that are the basis. Well, that's a problem in the investigation, isn't it? Today, as I said, this is a bit like waiting for Godot, although Carl Schlyter has now arrived. We will return to the heavy debate on the difficult issues when the bill on arms exports has arrived.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-602	Mr President, I would like to The Committee on Foreign Affairs has examined the Government's letter on strategic export control. In this letter, the Government describes the Swedish export control policy regarding war material and dual-use items in 2016. Exports increased by around 45 per cent in 2016 compared with the previous year, which mainly explains that deliveries of larger systems increased. It is, of course, positive that exports have increased. Our starting point is that this defence industry must be able to operate under conditions that are as far as possible economically beneficial to Swedish taxpayers. This means that the defence industry must inevitably also engage in exports in order to contribute through sales to bear development costs. The Swedish defence industry affects about 30 000 jobs, and indirectly the defence industry employs about 100 000. Therefore, even if the security policy reasons are enough, there are also labour market reasons for protecting our defence industry. Mr President, I would like to Sweden today has very restrictive rules and guidelines for exports. We are already at the forefront of this. We have an authority, the Inspection of Strategic Products, which carries out export controls in accordance with the regulations and international commitments it has to deal with. To this we have a parliamentary advisory body, the Export Control Council, with which the ISP can consult. According to the Swedish export control framework, security and defence policy reasons for exports must be weighed against foreign policy barriers to exports. Sweden's international commitments in the field of export control are primarily the EU's common position and the UN Arms Trade Treaty, ATT. So Sweden has one of the world's strictest export control systems, Mr President. I would like to stress that regulation of arms exports is obviously desirable. We believe that the principles of Sweden's arms exports represent a constant balance between Sweden's defence industry and security policy interests on the one hand and, for example, consideration of Swedish foreign policy objectives, the human rights situation and the risk of weapons being used against its own population in a prospective buyer country on the other. It would of course also be counterproductive for Sweden to sell weapons to an enemy-minded power or to any grouping that might turn the weapons against us or some hypothetical ally. In our opinion, the assessment of arms exports must also in future be based on a balance between these factors. The world is not black and white. Sweden's position should also be characterised in the future by realism and willingness to compromise. The Government decided on 1 June 2012 that a parliamentary committee, the so-called KEX investigation, would undertake a review of the export control of armaments. The task was to investigate the future Swedish export control and the framework for it. In the final report, the Committee proposed introducing a democracy criterion in the guidelines for the export of armaments and that the PGU, the policy of global development, should be taken into account in the licensing process. The final report has now been consulted, and we have been able to see referrals from various bodies. The major debate on the Swedish rules is to be tightened up further or not when the Government's proposal is to be discussed here in the Riksdag. Mr President, I would like to I understand that there is concern in the defence industry in Sweden. The steps we choose to take are extremely important. This can have a major impact on the defence industry. I want to raise the finger of warning here. The main challenge in export control policy is not primarily to impose additional conditions on defence equipment exports, but to apply and comply in practice with the existing regulations established in broad political agreement at both national and international level. Only the discussion on arms exports and the KEX investigation have adversely affected the Swedish defence industry. Presuming buyer countries feel uncertain about whether Swedish exports can be trusted in the future. The defence industry can testify to this. We need to get out of our navel boxing and the naive belief that if Sweden only tightens up the rules even more, conflicts and wars in the world will stop and everything will be peace and wool. Of course, that is not the case. It is completely naive to think that if Sweden puts a stop to itself and stops exporting, exports in the world will stop. Of course, it is someone else who sells, someone who does not live up to the already high standards that Sweden has. It would be better for Sweden to work to ensure that other countries catch up with Sweden and the high standards we already have, instead of continuing to make ourselves more difficult and impossible to deal with. Similarly, we cannot sit and judge from PGU whether countries should buy defence equipment from Sweden or not. Assessing one's security policy situation is a matter for the individual country. Mr President, I would like to We will be able to return to debates and discussions on this once the Government proposal lands on the board of the Riksdag. But let me conclude by being very clear. Of course we should have regulated exports, but we Swedish democrats will not accept the introduction of austerity measures that strangle our own defence industry and distort competition. Instead, let us focus on catching up with other countries, which today have weak regulations or fail to meet their commitments, with Sweden. This would benefit both the Swedish defence industry and global export control.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-619	Mr President, I would like to It is not by rearmament in the world that we win peace. I am thinking of the six-year-old girl in Gaza who has already experienced three wars. It's not through more weapons that we help her. We do this through diplomacy, conflict resolution and peace talks. We also help her through the development cooperation we have, where we help the children in Gaza to go to school and get food for the day. I am therefore pleased that Sweden's flagship, the Ministry for Foreign Affairs, is investing heavily in diplomacy, with special efforts in peace diplomacy. For example, we have been able to appoint a special envoy for Israel – the Palestine conflict. In 2013, the world provided USD 12 billion. Only a fraction of it could eradicate poverty. Another fraction could remove malaria, HIV, and AIDS. It has actually increased since then. Previously, 1.2 per cent of global arms exports went from Sweden. The proportion has now fallen by 35%, so it is moving in the right direction. But we have to go much further than that. Mr President, I would like to Guns get feet. The shootings in Sweden are increasing, especially in the Malmö area. These are contraband weapons that come into the hands of criminals. In the United States, most people feel that they need to have their own weapon in their pocket in order to feel safe. For me, it's a reverse world. We see school shootings that wouldn't have happened if there hadn't been a lot of weapons in circulation in the world. That is why it is so incredibly important, Mr President, that there has been a parliamentary inquiry looking at how Swedish arms exports can be tightened up. The investigation has been working for several years and supported so and wet between parties. It has negotiated, entered into the legislative text, discussed and presented a parliamentary proposal. We are now writing a bill on that. I would like to point out that the Green Party would have liked to have gone much further than the KEX investigation, the war material export investigation, came. We would have liked to have seen all arms exports to all dictatorships removed, no arms being exported at all to countries that violate human rights and oppress women. But we have a parliamentary majority for something else. We do not have a parliamentary majority in the Swedish Parliament to strangle arms exports in the way that the Green Party would have liked to see. But let us remember that the bill will still be a success. We in Sweden are now based on the 1997 law when we export weapons to other countries. It does not contain a democracy criterion and no criterion for taking human rights into account in the world. We will now have such a criterion. The KEX investigation has concluded that the Swedish Parliament wants one. We will be at the forefront of the rest of the countries of Europe. There are also countries, such as the Netherlands, who are looking forward to Sweden's proposals and who are willing to follow suit. Sweden is doing a great deal internationally when it comes to disarmament in the world. Much of this is happening through the hub of peace in the UN. Among other things, Sweden signed the humanitarian initiative at the UN last autumn. The world has shown that it wants to disarm nuclear weapons. It is extremely important that we express this will. Mr President, I would like to In these words, I would like to support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-630	Mr President, I would like to Pernilla Stålhammar appoints the Ministry for Foreign Affairs as Sweden's flagship. What, then, is the reason for this period of time and why has the bill delayed so? If the State Department is the flagship, has the flagship not been equipped with enough heavy weapons?
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-631	Mr President, I would like to We don't use weapons at the State Department. Member of Parliament Pettersson! The reason is that it's complicated matter. For my part, it has been more important that we have gone through this properly and that it has taken the time necessary for us to be able to present a good proposal in this area. This is not something that we have wanted to rush forward, but it has been more important to push and wet these issues properly before the bill is put on the board of Parliament. However, as has been said here before by my colleagues, it will shortly be available to Parliament.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-634	Mr President, I would like to I used the term heavy arming as a metaphor for political courage and intellectual sharpness.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-635	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-636	Mr President, I would like to I know that the Green Party is one of the parties here in the Swedish Parliament who would like the Swedish defence industry to stop its activities. In any case, it is the consequences of proposing to make an already strict regulatory framework an even more restrictive regulatory framework for spring exports. Exports are an important prerequisite for our own defence industry to operate. In her speech, Pernilla Stålhammar raised the problems of the illegal weapons that exist in Sweden and also in other countries. Is it Swedish defence equipment that is the problem? Is that the material that is in the streets and squares? If we stop exporting our own defence equipment to other countries, does Pernilla Stålhammar believe that the illegal weapons on the streets of Malmö or Gothenburg will stop? Sweden has very strict rules. Perhaps it is the country that has the most strict export rules in the world. We also have very effective control. It welcomes the defence industry because it thinks it is effective. You will receive a reply to an application for export within a very short time. Is it not better that we work to ensure that other countries come up to the same level as Sweden? Out in the world it is much less control, and we can see the consequence of that in wars and conflicts. Is it not better to work to ensure that other countries catch up with Sweden when it comes to international commitments and domestic regulations that may not be complied with? It has also created a better competitive position for the Swedish defence industry, to be able to compete on equal terms. Wouldn't that be better?
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-640	Mr President, I would like to I think it is perhaps a bit of an outdated picture of the Green Party, that we do not want a defence force at all. The Green Party has agreed to that. It is clear that we should have a defence, and that includes, to some extent, a military defence. Then what should be within this framework is a matter of civil defence, cyber defence, etc. As far as other countries are concerned, I do not see any contradiction. At the same time as we want stronger export control and reduced arms exports from Sweden, we also want other countries to follow suit. We're working on both fronts at the same time, so I don't see any contradiction at all there.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-642	Mr President, I would like to I know that the Green Party has changed its defence policy and departed from the previous one which meant facing the enemy with flowers, or whatever it was formulated. But it is not the defence and the Armed Forces that I was talking about, but I was talking about the defence industry, that is, the industry that provides Swedish defence with materials and that, in cooperation with other actors in the international market, produces materials that can be exported. Exports are a prerequisite for us to be able to bear our own development costs. I feel that the Green Party is not particularly interested in protecting it. The defence industry directly employs 30 000 people and indirectly 100 000 people. What will the Green Party and Pernilla Stålhammar say to these people who, as a result of an even more strict – perhaps even cessation – export may leave their jobs and become unemployed? Is it not better that we work with other countries coming up at the same level as Sweden, so that in a global perspective you can get better control of exports?
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-646	Mr President, I would like to I still see no contradiction between these issues. At least we do not want to shut down the defence industry completely. The Green Party also realises that a certain amount is needed. We want to strengthen export control. We should not export weapons to dictatorships or to countries that violate human rights and that do not stand up for women's rights, which are, of course, also a human right. This is what we want to do, and it is important in this context. But we also want to go further, which we may not be able to do in today's parliamentary composition. The KEX investigation and the proposal that is now coming is a step on the way.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-648	Mr President, I would like to As has been pointed out, this is a small front line fight, as you may well call it, for what is to come when it comes to Swedish arms exports. It is interesting to note some of the things that tend to stir up a lot of discussion, namely whether our arms exports are increasing or decreasing. Looking at the figures, we are now seeing a 45% increase from 4.9 billion in 2015 to 61.9 billion in 2016. I have been involved in debates such as this, when representatives of the current government side have loudly criticised the increase in exports. This is linked to individual issues and matters. In this case, for example, it is about JAS to Brazil. It is a long-term commitment that will be visible in our export declarations for a long time to come. It is important to see what h is and not only gets stuck in the numbers but can see the long lines in this part. Mr President, I would like to I have just heard Pernilla Stålhammar say that we have reduced our share of world exports by 35%. When we talk about numbers, it is interesting to see the whole thing from another horizon. Maybe we bought more? This is not clear, as imports are not accounted for. We may have contributed to the increase that has taken place for the United States, Russia, China or France. This is the other side of the coin. Of course, it is interesting to include such things when we discuss these issues. Exports are basically prohibited by Swedish legislation. For exports to be allowed, there must be a defence policy reason. It should not conflict with our foreign policy line. This is the basis for the entire control activity. However, these are complex issues, not least in view of the fact that everything that is being examined in the report is not military material. Some may be fabrics used for uniforms or for other purposes. It can also be about Scania trucks that are bought by someone. Plates are on the list. In many paragraphs, it involves other things than what most people think of, such as JAS, cannons and powerful weapons. This is good to consider when discussing future legislation. As the Government's report shows, it is also a matter of security policy for Sweden. If we were to be completely dependent on imports, our security policy would be affected. We may not have access to everything. We become dependent on the big players. If Sweden is part of this, we also have the opportunity to influence regulations because we are an exporting state. We also have opportunities to access good technology and equipment for our own defence. This is therefore ultimately a matter of security policy and defence policy. That is why it is obvious for the Center Party to see exports as important. Today, unlike in the past, there are some texts at the back of the report that say that we are a neutral state. This is because it is an old regulation and an old history, as these assessments reveal. To get a somewhat more comprehensive picture, you have to read this along with what has happened at EU level and with some of the new agreements that have been made. Mr President, I would like to The government is ultimately responsible for exports. Since we have a system of delegation, the government delegates to the ISP Director-General. The Director-General has a council, including me. However, it is the Director-General who makes decisions on behalf of the delegation. I suspect that this is one of the issues that will be included in the debate on the new legislation and how this will be clarified and made visible. I very much hope, Mr President, that we will now see a tightening up, because the Center Party wants to see legislation tightened up. We are united behind the compromise that we agreed on in the KEX investigation. There was some reservation from the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats, but otherwise we had a consensus. This is, of course, good and important. When we handed over the investigation in 2015, we thought it would be a quick bill. That was not the case. We were able to note in the bill list that it was due to be submitted in spring 2017. Now spring has soon passed and we will go tomorrow to summer. We have not yet seen a bill. Many of us thought it was connected to the Congress of the Green Party, and possibly so. For before the Congress of the Green Party, when we discussed the report in committee, it sounded like there was going to be a legislative referral and a bill this autumn. Today we are told that there will be a proposal before 21 June and obviously no Council of Law referral. So, Mr President, there have been a few different offers in the course of the journey. I very much hope that we will get a clear message, because many parties need clarity about the legislation. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-661	Mr President, I would like to As Kerstin Lundgren has just pointed out here in the speaker's chair, it is only a front line fight that is taking place in this House today. We are all waiting very hard for the bill that will come from the government. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has chosen to have an armed military defence. Liberals believe that if we can take that right, other democracies too can take that right. That is why we are not generally or in principle opposed to the export of armaments. In 2011, an announcement was made to the government in this Chamber. The Parliament then called for a more restrictive regulatory framework for exports to non-democratic countries. The war material export investigation worked for several years and over the 2014 elections, and it submitted its final report in early summer 2015. I had the privilege of participating in this investigation. Mr President, I would like to It is my view that the investigation in a rather broad political consensus, involving six different parties represented in this House, achieved important progress in tightening the regulatory framework. It is about increased transparency for our affairs in the field of defence equipment. It is a question of testing subsequent deliveries continuously and not routinely just allowing one delivery to be followed by more. It is about better monitoring of the so-called end-user certificates, which means that we make sure, through physical inventory on the spot, that the weapons we have sent in a certain direction have also stayed there. It also proposed resource increases for ISP, the Strategic Product Inspection. Not least, the investigation was finally fairly agreed on the criterion of democracy and how this should be formulated. As I know, Mr President, how many weeks, not to say months, went to formulate this criterion, it is my strong hope that the government, as it prepares the proposal, will take care of the political consensus that arose. I think you have everything to gain from that. Göran Pettersson spoke about how easy it is to forget the soldier's merits and efforts in times of peace. One could say on the same theme that we also tend in this country to sometimes forget unpleasant things that have precipitates, for example in the field of exports. It is not so many years since a Minister of Defence was perhaps forced to resign because of what was called the Saudi affair. But our memory is sometimes short, and therefore, Mr President, I choose to take this opportunity to remind you that there are aspects of arms exports that I do not think anyone in this House wants to experience.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-667	Mr President, I would like to For understandable reasons, many have stayed in the KEX investigation, but I would also like to tell you what it really is about, namely the report on last year's activities. It is then clear that last year, in excess of 10 billion, the biggest deal went to the United Arab Emirates, a country that is actively contributing to Saudi bombing campaigns in Yemen. The Security Council has concluded that eight out of ten attacks have been against non-legitimate targets. This shows the problem of arms exports in a clear way and that the current regulations do not work. We are actively contributing to the death of people today in Yemen. Previous export transactions we now see the result of. There are plenty of photos on the internet on al-Shabab-milis and Da i sh and from Burma. They are standing there with Swedish weapons that have come off the wrong path. They make it easy when exports are not restricted to democratic states with effective controls. It is therefore of the utmost importance that we stop sales to non-democratic states. These weapons will certainly maintain the power of these dictatorships over their population – patriarchal oppression in Saudi Arabia, torture in other countries. There is no compromise here. It is already stated in today's legislation that arms exports should not undermine foreign policy. But Swedish foreign policy is absolutely clear! It's feminist, so it's supposed to be against oppression of women. It is democratic, and it is against torture. It is therefore out of the question to sell arms to countries involved in such things. The more dictators in the world get less and less access to weapons, the better it gets. Björn Söder is right that someone else is selling, but you have to go ahead! I do not think that anyone in this House is selling drugs because someone else is selling drugs, but we are making the moral choice not to sell drugs to children and young people. I know that someone else does, but the more people there will be who will not, the more difficult it will be for the rest to maintain illegal activity. 40% of the world's corruption can be attributed to the arms industry, and it weakens our democratic state. We shall also take into account security policy reasons for arms exports, but those reasons are weakened when it leads to mass exodus and repression in other countries. Defence policy reasons are also weaker today than before. In principle, all weapons systems are totally dependent on cooperation and licensing from other countries, so we have no independent defence industry of our own. In addition, large parts of it are owned by foreign companies. The reasons for this are therefore being weakened and the reasons against are being reinforced. We need an absolute ban on exports to non-democratic countries. Nor can there be a cross-safe distinction between active weapons that kill directly and, for example, surveillance equipment or combat control equipment. We don't want to help countries monitor women's movements and freedom heroes, do we? We're not supposed to contribute to that either. Every little loophole is death crawling through! Now, Mr President, my time has come to an end, but I would like to say one more thing. The employees in the defence industry are incredibly good and competent people. One-third of them are engineers. They are perfect for aerodynamics, material engineering, control and computer technology! The whole of Sweden is screaming for them! If some of them are involved in other things than arms exports, they can contribute a great deal to Sweden's development.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-678	Mr President, I would like to We are now going to debate the Environment and Agriculture Committee's report 22 horizontal environmental issues. The report contains some 20 requests for exercise from the general period of exercise last autumn, which mainly concerns the environmental code. These include, for example, the authorisation process, processing times and rights issues. The provisions of this Code aim to promote sustainable development that ensures a healthy and good environment for present and future generations. Such a development is based on the realization that nature has a protection value and that man's right to change and use nature is associated with a responsibility for managing nature well. ..................................................... So, Mr President, the environmental code begins. It is an extremely important law which expresses these fundamental values and principles and which came into being in order to take a comprehensive legal approach to environmental rules. This means that the law spans a wide range of areas and deals with both regulations for nature reserves as well as permits for and supervision of different types of commercial activities. There are also criminal law elements in the law. The testing of activities that in different ways have an impact on the environment is essential for us to be able to follow developments in the environment and work towards the goals we set ourselves. But we can also note that these processes are sometimes unnecessarily lumpy and take too long. The report describes a series of initiatives taken by the government to work on the issue of simplifying permit granting processes so that they do not delay time. For example, the new industrialisation strategy developed by the government shows that it works with various measures and proposals to make the trial more effective. There are a number of objectives. 19 authorities have been assigned to work on simplification issues. The Swedish Agency for Growth has a central role in this work and is the authority that reports on the progress of the work each year. The latest report from April 2017 shows that the work is progressing and producing results, although there is still much to be done. Nevertheless, Mr President, the report contains an announcement from the bourgeois parties and the Swedish Democrats. It is a bit difficult to see what they think this announcement will result in, because, as I said, there is quite a lot of work going on at several different levels, especially in the light of the fact that an almost identical announcement in a report from the Committee on Economic Affairs was made here in Parliament as late as the end of March and is now being prepared in the Government Office. It will be, Mr President, almost a little ridiculous, as if the top priority is to arrange another stick in the statistics on announcements. Mr President, I would like to Some of the report deals with the rights of environmental organisations. It is an issue that has also caused public debate in a lot of places around the country. Today we are dealing with proposals to restrict this right. Discussions often refer to the Aarhus Convention. According to it, we are committed to ensuring that the public is given the right to information, to participate in decision-making processes and to appeal against certain decisions that affect the environment. But it is not just a matter of living up to the Convention. It should also be a reasonable order for us to provide the public with transparency and influence over what is also public interest. This is often painted as a threat to property rights. But it is important to remember that ownership is not absolute. A balance must be struck between the interests of the public – as is also stated in the Constitution, for example for sustainable ecological development in the long term. Legal and judicial trials are a fundamental tool for balancing and resolving conflicts. Nor do I understand that there is anyone here who fundamentally questions that order, even if it can sometimes sound like that on the breast tones of the debate. Then, of course, there is always room to discuss boundaries. Questions about the scope of the right of appeal are also under investigation right now. It should be waited. Mr President, I would like to The report also contains a proposal from the Center Party for closer collaboration between research and industry on the substitution of dangerous substances. It is a very important issue that needs to work better. It is therefore gratifying that the government has made it clear that it intends to set up a substitution centre precisely to achieve synergy and dissemination of knowledge. Substitution, i.e. that the existing regulations should act as a driving force for the substitution of dangerous substances by less dangerous substances, is an important principle of chemicals policy. Despite the fact that the principle is established, we believe that more needs to be done. There, of course, increased collaboration between research and the industry is crucial. It is especially difficult for smaller companies to sit in the room themselves with the expertise needed to get involved in and keep up to date with research and best practice, not least because all of this also happens in a global context. This is precisely what a substitution centre should be able to help with. It also has the potential to strengthen the competitiveness of Swedish companies by enabling them to be at the forefront. On behalf of the Government, an investigation has looked at how such a centre can be designed. The report was presented in March this year. It is now being prepared within the Government Office. But the government has made it clear that a centre for substitution will be established. That's good. That is why there is no reason for the committee to put forward proposals put forward by the Center Party, although this is both good and important. It is simply already on the way. Mr President, I would like to With this, I would like to support the proposal in the report. But I also want to end with a little anger, frustration and gratitude. A moment before I was going up the speaker's chair, there was a flash about what we have feared, namely that President Donald Trump is going to pull the United States out of the global climate agreement. It makes me angry, frustrated, and worried. International climate action does not stand and fall with the United States, but it would be dishonest to say that it does not matter. On the contrary, it is important what one of the world's great superpowers does. At the same time, it also makes me grateful for the situation in this country and in this House. Of course, we disagree about a lot. It would be weird if I didn't. But together we are taking responsibility for this very serious issue. There is really only one party in this House that does not, namely the Swedish Democrats. To the rest of you, thank you for your cooperation and for the constructive conflicts that challenge and enrich the debate!
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-695	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by agreeing with what Sara Karlsson concluded with. The Flash also made me worried. So far, it's unconfirmed data. Let us hope that the leaders of the outside world and the American people can put pressure on President Trump to change and stand by the American decision to be a party to the crucial and so important global climate agreement. Mr President, I would like to Back to the debate on MJU22 Horizontal environmental issues. Like Sara Karlsson, it is a sprawling report. It contains about 20 requests and proposals, ranging from environmental assessments to collaboration between research and industry, peat and wind power issues. However, the majority of the proposals deal with permit issues and review issues such as how environmental assessments are carried out, action times and rights of appeal. One of the most important and key tools of environmental policy is environmental testing. In this speech, I will therefore focus on these and, in particular, on the need to simplify and shorten the licensing processes. Today's environmental code is far from perfect legislation, but it lays the foundations for a comprehensive and integrated environmental test that highlights all the different environmental impacts an operation might have. This, in turn, creates the conditions for a good protection of the environment and human health. Having said that, it is only to be noted that today's environmental testing is suffering from major problems and shortcomings. Particularly remarkable are the long duration of proceedings, but there are also serious shortcomings in terms of legal certainty, uniformity and, therefore, competition neutrality in the granting of permits. However, the Alliance government carried out several important reforms to create a better order and took a wide range of initiatives to improve and streamline environmental testing. Let me take a few examples, Mr President. The creation of the five Land and Environment Courts, as well as a Land and Environment Court, replaced the former Environmental Courts, Real Estate Courts and the Environmental Court of Appeal. In this way, the treatment of environmental objectives, as well as cases under the Planning and Construction Act and property cases were concentrated in the new courts. It created the conditions for a better use of skills and other available resources and thus for more efficient case management of higher quality. The examination of permits for less environmentally hazardous activities, so-called ‘B' activities, was also concentrated from 21 county boards to 12 – this also in order to create a more efficient regime, not least in order to create the conditions for a more uniform review across the country. In addition, the roles of environmental review missions and county boards were clarified, and several assignments were given to the Innovation Council to develop and implement concrete measures to, among other things, shorten processing times. Mr President, I would like to The important reforms of the Alliance government created the conditions for a more effective environmental test of higher quality. At the same time, much still needs to be done, but the current government has so far proved incapable of dealing with the long processing times. Many companies testify that environmental testing differs depending on where you are in the country. That's, to use the Prime Minister's expression, not okay. Environmental testing must be thorough, effective and legally secure. It should not matter to which court or county administrative board you turn to have your application examined. Nor is it reasonable for it to take several years to obtain an environmental permit. Today, therefore, it is often completely unacceptablely long processing times for environmental permits. It is a serious problem from both an economic as well as an environmental and climate perspective. Long processing times slow down business development and slow growth and job creation. Long processing times delay and jeopardise investments and measures that deliver environmental benefits. Mr President, I would like to In view of this, I am pleased that a majority in the Parliament's Committee on the Environment and Agriculture in this report would like to send an announcement to the government to take further steps to simplify and shorten permit granting processes so that, among other things, incentives are created for companies that want to take measures to improve the environment to do so. This announcement involves the approval of two moderate motions that are about testing the possibility of introducing a so-called green sour cream – simply a fast track in the permit process for companies that want to take environmental improvements and need environmental permits to do so. For us Moderates, it is important that we have taxes, laws and systems that provide incentives for environmental and climate improvements. The fact that the government parties and the Left Party do not share this view and have reserved themselves makes me concerned. Mr President, I would like to Let me now touch briefly on two other issues and two other moderate motions which are dealt with in this report. The first question concerns the right of appeal, i.e. the right to review a decision. It is a general principle of administrative law that an individual has the right to a judicial review of an administrative authority's decision if the individual is concerned and the decision has contradicted him or her. According to the Aarhus Convention, not only individuals but also environmental organisations, for example, have the right to appeal against a permit decision. The provisions of the Convention are in Swedish law equivalent to those of the Environmental Code, which contains, among other things, provisions on the requirements that a non-profit association or other legal organisation must fulfil in order to have a right of appeal. The first requirement is that the organisation should have as its main purpose the exploitation of nature conservation or environmental protection interests. The second requirement is that the organisation should not be profit-making. The third requirement is that the organisation must have been active in Sweden for at least three years, and the fourth and last requirement is that the organisation must have at least 100 members or otherwise be able to demonstrate that the organisation has public support. We Moderates are behind the Aarhus Convention and think it is good that the public has the right to speak also through associations and organisations. At the same time, we see problems with how the Århus Convention's requirements have been implemented in Swedish law and what this has led to in practice when it comes to, for example, protection and licensing hunting on wolves. We strongly question whether it is reasonable for an organisation with only 100 members to be given a right of redress, especially when this right is used to almost sabotage democratically made decisions and prevent the necessary and well-functioning predatory management. That is why we want to review the organisational requirements for environmental organisations' right to use the right to speak. I therefore support Amendment No 6, which deals with this very subject. Mr President, I would like to The second issue concerns the supervision fees for mining activities. We Moderates find it unreasonable that these charges should be levied equally regardless of the size of the operation and the plant. Instead, we want differentiated supervisory fees. This is highlighted in reservation No 9, to which I, however, refrain from calling for approval for time-winning. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to stress the importance of the government now following the will of the parliamentary majority and making sure that it really simplifies and shortens the licensing processes for environmental permits. The government must look at the possibility of introducing a green sour cream or otherwise create incentives for companies that want to take environmental improvements. Environmental assessments are aimed at protecting the environment, but today, paradoxically, the trials often become environmental problems in practice. This must be taken seriously by the government and addressed.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-714	Mr President, I would like to In report MJU22 on environmental issues, I would like to support our reservation 7 on matters of justice. But, of course, I support all our reservations. I would also like to make it clear that during the vote later this afternoon we will first vote in favour of our reservation. In the event of it falling, SD may consider voting in favour of M's, C's and KD's reservation on rights of speech. The reason for this procedure is, first and foremost, that we are critical of the application of the Aarhus Convention and believe that environmental organisations should not be given the right to judicial review of decisions regarding normal forestry measures at all. Secondly, we believe that the possibility of stopping and preventing government decisions on the basis of the Aarhus Convention is sometimes interpreted incorrectly. We therefore want the organisational requirements for environmental organisations' rights of appeal to be reviewed. Mr President, I would like to Sweden has acceded to the United Nations Aarhus Convention, which contains rules on public access to environmental information, the right to participate in major decision-making processes and access to justice in environmental matters. According to the Convention, environmental organisations can be classified as the general public. The Supreme Administrative Court has also ruled that environmental organisations such as the Swedish Environmental Protection Association have the right to appeal against a permit for felling in mountain forest. This was done in the so-called Änok case in 2014, with reference to the Aarhus Convention. The Government decided in November 2015 to carry out a legal review of forestry legislation and to review, among other things, the possibility for environmental organisations to gain access to justice in environmental matters. The introduction of new provisions with access to appeal procedures in the Forest Protection Act opens up the possibility that normal forestry measures may be the subject of legal proceedings. This in itself would open up legal activism from environmental organisations with the result that the right to farm forests could be restricted. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that environmental organisations should not be able to use legal means to try normal forestry measures. Both farmed and uncultivated forests have their place in forestry. Furthermore, one of the fundamental principles of society's prosperity is respect for the individual's property. The well-functioning Swedish forestry model with two overall and equal forest policy objectives, the environmental objective and the production target, has so far served us well and should be further developed in consultation with the forest industry. In addition, half of Sweden's forests are owned by about 330 000 family forest farmers, which gives a natural diversity. The Swedish Democrats believe in the right to own, use and control their own forest. We believe that this is what best motivates and stimulates forest owners to best nurture, cultivate and develop their forests. The Swedish Democrats therefore believe that the most successful forestry policy is achieved through voluntary and knowledge rather than through too detailed laws and regulations. Mr President, I would like to Associations which have about a hundred members, represent the public or represent their particular interests? More like the latter, I'd say. It is strange, to say the least, that special interests in society, which are usually not directly affected by the decisions, are nevertheless given the opportunity to stop government decisions by means of appeals. A distinction must be made between special interest and the general interest. This needs to be reviewed. In this respect, the courts must be guided by clear instructions and regulations in relation to those who have the right of appeal in the proper sense. The Parliament and the Government have here to review the right of speech and distinguish between the public interest and the special interest.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-727	Mr President, I would like to We are here today to debate the report on general environmental issues. As several speakers have said, it is a rather sprawling report that addresses many important issues – from changes in the environmental code to permit procedures and redress, wind power and justice issues. I would like to start by focusing on what is mentioned at the outset and on the environmental code and perhaps also to add a little more to the text with reference to what I have already said: just before we entered the Chamber today, we got the news – in itself unconfirmed – that the United States seems to want to withdraw from the Paris Agreement. This is devastating. In the report, there are motions to raise the climate more clearly in the environmental code. It is gratifying that we in Sweden have that type of exercise. Even more gratifying is that we do far more than that: We will get a climate law. In two weeks' time, this House will debate the bill on a climate policy framework for Sweden and hopefully adopt it in broad agreement on the same day. This is something that all parties here, except the Swedish Democrats, are behind. This is a great victory for Sweden. And it is a milestone, both because it has been developed together by all parties in Parliament except the Swedish Democrats and because of the content. The Act contains basic provisions for the Government's climate policy work and provides long-term rules of play for future governments, regardless of colour. It is an important victory for the climate. The bill contains many important elements when it comes to how to become the world's first fossil-free country. I will not go into any tiring details; as I said, there will be a longer debate on this in a few weeks' time. But to have the goal that Sweden by 2045 should have no net greenhouse gas emissions is large. This gives us a chance to at least show how we, from the Swedish side, want to achieve the Paris Agreement's goal that earth's warming must not exceed two degrees and should be as far below as possible. If we had not had the sea as buffers for the warming we already have, we would have already had six degrees warmer today. We see that the heat that the sea has taken up makes us around the equator begin to get deserts – we are talking about species poverty and heat. We see that fast-swimming fish like tuna choose other routes. This is going on right now. That is why it is so incredibly important that we in this House agree to achieve what we have agreed in the climate policy framework. This also gives echoes out in the world. Now that the United States is sending these negative signals, we are giving positive signals and can take climate leadership. Our own sister party, the Greens in New Zealand, has gone to elections on the slogan....................................................................................................................................................................... That's what they want to do. Isabella Lövin, Deputy Prime Minister, Minister for Climate Change and Minister for International Development, and of course also the spokesperson of the Green Party, was in Washington a few weeks ago at the World Bank Spring Summit. There was a side event, a small council with special invitations to talk about how we can give more momentum to the transition to a fossil-free society. In the room were all the big ones from the UN and also bankers and companies. Isabella Lövin was placed in this room between Al Gore and John Kerry. She explained what we are doing in Sweden, that we see it as economically smart to change and that strict climate legislation creates innovation and pushes companies to become smarter. Then the head of the World Bank told the others that the countries that do not follow will be hopelessly behind. The Swedes are gonna eat you for lunch! So we're making a difference, and I'm very happy that we're doing it together. There are many other exciting issues in this report. One that I was going to mention a little more is the one about a substitution center. It was mentioned earlier that there has been an investigation into setting up a centre for developing and researching how to replace dangerous chemicals with less hazardous ones and do so in a safe and innovative way. According to the proposal for a substitution centre, we want cooperation between industry and research, and I think that is a very good way forward. The proposal came in March and is now being prepared within the Government Office, and I hope it will come forward. This way of working, removing bad products and replacing them with something better and doing it together and as innovations, I think is a very good way forward. We also received information from Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog this weekend that more money is being invested in developing other materials for sustainable plastics or replacement plastics. We can see that plastic is one of the biggest villains when it comes to littering. The advantages – that they are light and long-lasting – are also the main drawbacks. We need to find ways to replace plastics in a way that makes it work for industry, industry and us and that there are no other problems. I believe that many of the ideas from substitution centres can also apply to how to replace plastics. The report also talks about permit procedures and processing times, and we receive an announcement from the alliance parties. We have a reservation, but for time winning, I will not claim approval for it. We see that the government has taken a strong stand here. There is a new industrialisation strategy, Smart Industry, which proposes several different commitments in terms of how to obtain a more effective environmental permit testing. We're going to have statistics on trial permits, and it's about how the processes are going to work. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency will establish statistics for industries and various matters and efforts so that we can follow the case management process and see how it can be improved. There is a mandate to come up with proposals for faster trials, and there is a reference group for continuous dialogue on how to make these improvements. I see that the government has already taken a strong stance on this issue and is fulfilling what it wants to do. I therefore find no reason for this announcement to be made.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-742	Mr President, I would like to Emma Nohrén invited a little to a general political debate on environmental and climate policy. Of course, I very much agree with the description that it was extremely valuable that we seven parties in the Swedish Parliament could agree on a strengthened climate policy framework with ambitious goals for Sweden and a clarification of how the parliament and government should work and the establishment of a climate policy council, which should impartially and critically review and follow up the work of the government. I think that the Financial Policy Council has served Sweden well and is an important nail in the eye of the current government. Just recently, the Council of Finance Ministers presented stinging and much-needed criticisms of the current government's fiscal policy. But, Mr President, in order for the description of the agreement we made in the Environment Targets Committee to be correct, I would nevertheless like to impress on you that climate law is indeed the small part of the proposal and agreement. The real big thing was the handshake that we seven parties did when we agreed on the long-term and ambitious objectives. I know that the law is something that has great symbolic political value, not least for the Green Party, but I think it is important not to exaggerate the importance of legislation. Then, Mr President, Emma Nohrén mentioned that New Zealand's environmentalists wanted to go to elections on Let 中's beat Sweden. Right now it is quite simple, given that the climate emissions are rising with this government. It is important for an effective climate policy to seriously reduce emissions.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-747	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Hultberg! It was difficult not to publish the text on the climate today in view of what happened just before. I hope you will forgive this. I think, of course, that the process itself, when we have discussed the climate, has been a very important part. When it comes to your question about permit processes and processing times, of course, we want as clear and good guidelines as possible. But we also see that the work initiated by the government and the action plan that exists must be given time to operate. I think it is something of an unwieldy announcement when there is actually work going on and that is precisely what is being asked for. We have not yet seen the effect of this work.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-750	Mr President, I would like to What we in the Alliance and the parliamentary majority are asking for are sharp, concrete measures that lead to a simplified process and shorter processing times. What Emma Nohrén and the government are referring to is the new industrialisation strategy, which is primarily about much more than just environmental testing. It's about permit issues and government contacts in general. The measures presented there are the introduction of targets and the production of statistics, and proposals are being made for proposals to be made on how to shorten processing times. It is not good enough to have just suggestions to make proposals. What is needed are concrete measures to shorten processing times and to try to create a regime that pays particular attention to those companies applying for permits to reduce the negative climate and environmental impact of their activities. It is about investing in an existing plant, renovating it, investing to reduce energy consumption and emissions or investing in completely new production of renewable electricity, for example. This is prevented by today's very tough environmental testing. I know that view is shared by the government: it is deeply problematic that it takes so long. But I do not really see the concrete measures. I really think that the government should take advantage of the good idea that has now been put forward by the Moderates and the Alliance to try to establish a special green fast track to ensure that environmental testing is actually an engine of environmental work and not, as it unfortunately is today in many cases, a brake block.
i-SiWp93C5V16w7ywtEFF7YY	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Johan Hultberg, for this discussion! Upstairs in the speaker's chair, you put forward a lot of measures that you, the Alliance, had taken to prevent this. Despite all these measures, however, we stand here with lengthy processes. This government has tried to understand this and see how we can move forward and ensure that the processes become short, efficient and modern. They are a work that has been started. There's work going on. The Council has just issued an opinion on the referral on environmental assessments, following the announcement made last year. All this is going on. I cannot quite understand what else Johan Hultberg is asking for, because that is precisely what we are doing.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-755	Mr President, I would like to We are now debating horizontal environmental issues, a number of proposals from the general period of exercise. Several of the proposals in this case concern the environmental code and the possibility for organisations to engage in environmental issues. The so-called right of appeal, which gives organisations the opportunity to be involved and, for example, to appeal against decisions on wolf hunting, logging or other restrictions on the environment, is laid down in the environmental code. I think that Sara Karlsson, who spoke here earlier, said something important about ownership: Ownership is important, but it does not give the owner an unlimited power to do what he wants with what he owns. This could be a forest, for example, which you can own privately. There may be a lot of people who use that forest. They pick blueberries or mushrooms there. They may hunt, fish in the lake or orient. That is why I think it is essential in a democracy to strike a balance between what the owner, the forest company, wants to do and what those who represent the environment and those who live in the area think they should do instead. In their reservation, the Swedish Democrats mention the so-called Änok case. It is a wonderful area in northern Sweden, in the valley of Luleälven, where the Swedish Forest Board first granted permission for large-scale felling. But after Sweden's largest environmental organisation, the Swedish Environmental Protection Association, with reference to the environmental code could engage in the case, felling was stopped. I would like to ask Runar Filer, the Center Party and the Moderates: Do you really mean that environmental organisations should not be able to get involved in these issues? Do you not think it is essential in a democracy that a balance must always be struck between production and the environment? I would say that many of the nature reserves and protected areas that we have today would not have existed if it had not been because people stood up for the environment – people who stay in these areas every day, far more often than forest companies, who may have their headquarters here in Stockholm. These people often know much better about the great values that exist in those areas. Therefore, I think it is incredibly important that we safeguard the right of public and environmental organisations to be involved in environmental matters. I therefore call for the reservations in this area to be rejected. Mr President, I would like to I would also like to speak on behalf of the Left Party's reservation No 5 on the so-called municipal veto against wind power installations. The municipal veto, i.e. the right for a municipality to at any time, on any basis and by a decision that cannot be appealed, reject the establishment of wind turbines. This was introduced by the bourgeois government in 2009. The purpose stated when the municipal veto was introduced was that permit processes should go faster, but now we see that it has become quite the opposite. According to the industry itself, only in recent years more than 300 wind turbines have been stopped in some twenty municipalities precisely because of the municipal veto. I find it strange that we have a municipal veto against clean, renewable wind energy but not against the establishment of mines or against fossil energy sources such as fossil gas, oil or coal. It won't hold. We cannot treat renewable energy so rigidly. That is why I am in favour of the Left Party's reservation 5, in which we want to tear up the completely legal and unpredictable municipal veto against wind power establishment. Mr President, I would like to In this report, there is an announcement that stems from movements by the bourgeois parties to simplify and shorten permit processes in environmental matters. It's not a new thing. The bourgeois have said so before. Actually, no one is against us having fast and good condition processes. However, I think that it is a little bit of an open door when such work is already under way and much has already been done. I am a little afraid that too much pressure is being put on and that we are instead getting a legally insecure state that weighs more heavily on the investments and the establishment of companies than on the protection of the environment. We should remember that we have the Environmental Code, the Planning and Construction Act and other legislation precisely so that we can strike a balance between exploitation and environmental and natural considerations. Then it is important that there is also a good balance and that it is a process that has to take its time. No process should take an unreasonable amount of time, but I think this is breaking open doors. Finally, Mr President. I listened to Emma Nohrén. She talked about everything the Swedish government does on climate issues and not least says on climate issues. Emma told me about Isabella Lövin, who has been out travelling again. This time it was Washington. Next time she's going to New York. When Isabella was in Washington she had been sitting next to John Kerry, I thought Emma said, who had said some nice words about Sweden. It's flattering when you hear fine words from the big country across the Atlantic. But to be honest: Is this the best that the Green Party has to come up with on climate issues – how much the responsible climate minister travels around the world and boasts about Sweden? I would like to have a Minister for Climate Change who is here in Sweden doing more work, because there is a lot that remains to be done. We have great goals – that thing is clear. That's good. But we need more political action for the climate. Emma is welcome to ask for a reply to my speech, and we can talk about it more. We need cheaper public transport. We need an action plan for reducing meat consumption. We need to expand the bicycle infrastructure on a large scale. We need a stop to fossil energy. Yes, I can line up any number of concrete examples where I do not think the government is acting. You talk a lot, but you act far too little.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-767	Mr President, I would like to I rarely miss the opportunity to ask for a reply to Jens Holm's speech, not least when he specifically asks for it. But I think Jens Holm came a little late to this debate, or he listened very carelessly. For I was very clear, Mr President, in my speech that we Moderates stand up for the right of speech and that we stand behind the Aarhus Convention, but at the same time we think that it is completely unreasonable how it has been implemented in Sweden. This is particularly true of the consequences of the Århus Convention's implementation in Sweden. I do not think it is reasonable that an organisation with only 100 members should have the opportunity to actually sabotage and shoot the predators' administration in mind, as we have seen happening. It is not a good order, and it is not something that benefits our democracy. For me, it is therefore a bit strange that Jens Holm strongly questions that municipal politicians who have been elected in local elections should have the opportunity to influence the expansion of wind power but on the other hand thinks that any small association that so wishes should have the opportunity to actually stop or postpone important decisions on, for example, sheltering on wolf. As far as the environmental tests are concerned, I say again: this government, Jens Holm, has not presented any sharp proposals on how to shorten the processing times. It is about proposals to produce statistics and data. That is a good thing, but we have not seen the concrete measures. I would like to ask Jens Holm the same question I put to Emma Nohrén. Why do you not want to try the possibility of creating a specific green cream, a fast track for companies and activities that want to make environmental improvement measures? Does Jens Holm really think it is reasonable that the environmental tests become a brake block instead of the engine to develop the environmental work that the environmental assessments and the environmental code were supposed to be?
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-771	Mr President, I would like to How good that Johan Hultberg requests a reply! Then, in this debate, I can get some clarity as to what the Moderates really want and perhaps do not want. For example, the moderate and center party reservation on rights of speech refers to the hunting of wolves. Does that mean it's just the wolf hunt that's the problem? Or is it just as the Swedish Democrats mention in their reservation: that one should not be allowed to appeal the fellings of forests? The Swedish Democrats are addressing the case of Änokdeltat, which I think is quite clear. The forestry board was primarily wrong. It was a good thing that we had an environmental organization that stood up for the forest. Is it only in the case of wolf, or is it in all natural matters that you want to change the system of things? You think an organization of 100 people is too small an organization. But where is the limit to be drawn? It may be that 100 people who live in a village are the very people who are out in this forest every day. For them, the forest is absolutely vital. They have an organization, an association. They want to be involved in the process and speak out on the matter. Shouldn't they be able to do that, Johan Hultberg? The fast track I really think is a pretty good idea. But I think all the tracks should be fast track. It's not okay what it looks like in some operations, where it drags out far too far in time. I can certainly agree with that. But why just pick out certain processes and tell them to go extra fast? We want all tracks to be fast track.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-774	Mr President, I would like to It was a well-loved ambition that Jens Holm expressed at the end of his line. However, it is very far from reality. Jens Holm expressed in his speech that he was afraid that too much pressure on simplification work and work to speed up the processes would make the trial too careless. I think that Jens Holm's different news rhymes a bit badly and does not really form a whole. We therefore have a system in which it takes four years on average to implement a measure requiring environmental permits. It doesn't make any sense. It's about the whole period, including the development of the MKB and so on. But it is unreasonable that it should take so long. Then we in the Alliance believe that it is particularly important to ensure that those who want to take measures that improve the environment, reduce emissions and reduce the negative impact on the environment are quick to take action. It's a matter of priority. But it is excellent if Jens Holm and I can agree that it must go faster to get permission and that there must be a business climate and an investment climate in Sweden that makes companies want to establish themselves here. Unfortunately, we can see that investments in Sweden are lower than in comparable countries and that they have actually fallen since the introduction of the environmental code. That does not mean that we should abolish the environmental code. This does not mean that we should abolish the environmental tests. But we must see that it is a serious problem with today's order. Mr President, I would like to I'm going back to the court of law. I am not prepared to say here and now an exact figure as to where I think the limit should go. But 100 members think I'm not enough. I think, as we express in our reservation, that there must be a review. As far as forests are concerned, it is my firm opinion that ordinary honest forestry, if I say so, and ongoing land use should not be subject to permit testing. It should be like today: to report to the Swedish Forest Board and that the Swedish Forest Board has an opportunity to lift it. But I do not think it makes sense that we should have the right to a permit and a right to speak on every piece of property.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-779	Mr President, I would like to Then we can see that with the policy of the Moderates, the Änok delta had been destroyed today. Contrary to the Moderates, I think that there is a very important knowledge and commitment of environmental organisations, regardless of their size, that we should take on board. That is what democracy is all about. One must be able to weigh interests against one another. But maybe it's a little more difficult for a party that has a history of resisting the introduction of universal suffrage--I don't know. We agree that all tracks should be fast track – that's good. But how can you get faster permit processes if you dismiss any additional additions that we actually add to the responsible authorities – the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, the Swedish Forest Agency, the county administrative boards and our municipalities, which are all involved in these issues in different ways? The Moderates constantly respond with cuts, cuts and cuts. Does anyone seriously believe that the processes will go faster? At least I don't.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-781	Mr President, I would like to It could have been an interesting discussion on universal suffrage, but perhaps we can leave it at that today. I would like to begin by expressing a great deal of concern about the unconfirmed news that President Trump intends to take the United States out of the Paris Agreement. Even if it's unconfirmed, it's worrying. It might actually be true. We'll see what the consequences are. It has a lot to do with what the rest of the world takes for leadership. If so, Europe will play a crucial role in this. Next week we have the Great Maritime Conference, the UN Maritime Conference, in New York. It is worrying when the United States gives these signals. What action will be taken at such a conference? The sea is another of the really big global challenges that we have. It is in a way perhaps the new climate issue. We have had a discussion on the climate policy framework, but I will not go into it now. We will certainly have a proper mangling about this in about three weeks' time. Mr President, I would like to I can also at first sight think that the report is a bit sprawling, but if one tries to find a common thread in the whole: it is about different regulations governing different types of permit processes. The fact that permit processes are carried out effectively and legally is, of course, an incredibly important issue. I support the proposal contained in the report, apart from paragraph 7, in which the Liberals have supported a motion for a resolution by the Center Party on the possibility of increasing collaboration between research and industry and increasing the exchange of dangerous substances in various products in a proactive way rather than waiting for the EU list and the REACH legislation. This means that we Liberals support the proposal to address an announcement to the government regarding different types of licensing processes. These processes must be designed in such a way that they do not in themselves constitute an unnecessary obstacle to job creation, growth and environmental measures. The problem of equal treatment throughout the country is also a central part of this. The measures taken by the Alliance Government by centralising the judiciary and the environmental objectives delegation were a step in seeking to increase equality across the country. This is definitely not about reducing requirements. The focus is on the appropriate permit processes and on having a user perspective. It is very easy that in this type of permit process the authority's way of working is used, while the user will be happy when it is finished after maybe four years, as mentioned earlier. As far as certain issues are concerned, this is an unreasonable period of time. I can see a clear parallel to the discussion we have had about more flexible permit processes in relation to water activities. In this area there is an announcement that the government is hopefully working on. It is about being able to adapt the process to the size of the business and the assessed environmental impact. In the area of water, too, it is a question of being able to set clear and relevant environmental requirements within the framework of the environmental code. However, the focus should be on the measures– one should not get caught up in lengthy, unnecessarily complicated permit granting processes. I think we are fairly agreed that the permit process does not have any intrinsic value in the process, but the important thing is the result and that the right things are assessed. Mr President, I would like to As has been mentioned earlier from government representatives, intensive work is under way, which hopefully aims to make permit processes shorter and simpler. One can discuss whether an announcement is unnecessary or not, but the announcement still gives a very clear signal to the government about what the Riksdag thinks this work should lead to. A question was asked about what else we are asking for. What we are asking for is the result, and if the result meets this announcement, I do not really see a problem with it. The announcement from the Riksdag is a clear signal to the government about what result we want in the end. Mr President, I would like to I would like to say a few words about the municipal veto, which has come to be called. It is true that the legislation does not say municipal veto, but it says municipal power, which has a slightly different ring. Jens Holm mentioned that it would make it easier but that it has become more difficult. It has definitely not become more difficult! What happened was that the double trial was removed. Previously, wind power was tested both according to the Environmental Code and according to the Planning and Construction Act. It is now being tested according to the Environmental Code, and then the municipality will give its strength. As a rule, the trial process has become much simpler. One could say that a certain number of wind turbines have been hindered because of the municipal veto, as Jens Holm put it. Perhaps there is some kind of ideological resistance to wind power, but it must still be unusual. It may be that the municipality, from its perspective of planning monopolies and land use monopolies, considers the location to be inappropriate. The fact that the municipality was given this role was based on the fact that, instead of carrying out a full review under the Planning and Construction Act, only a simple decision was possible. It is clear that the legislation was much simpler – it is important to bring this along. That's all I want to say. I do not think that most local politicians are doing this to combat wind power, but I believe that a serious test is being carried out.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-801	Mr President, I would like to I can understand that Lars Tysklind wanted to go up and defend the municipal veto against wind power. As I understand it, it was at the time the People's Party which, in the last minute of bourgeois negotiations, threw in that the municipalities should always be able to say no to wind power establishments and which got it into the legislation in 2009. I would like to ask Lars Tysklind: should the municipalities not also have a veto on other energy extraction or production, for example in the case of oil, coal and fossil gas? At least it'll be equal. I would also like to know if Lars Tysklind and the Liberals think that today's order is good. It has become the case that the expansion of more than 300 wind turbines has been halted with reference to the municipal veto. Applicants make a major investment and plan for several years for these establishments, but they are not in a position to appeal. There is no set timetable for when to receive a reply from the municipality. Is that gonna take a month? Does it take a year? Does it take ten years? Do the Liberals think today's order is good? Is it legal? And above all, with reference to the previous discussion: is this a quick and good trial process?
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-806	Mr President, I would like to I was involved in this process, but I cannot remember that it was at the time the People's Party that was driving the issue. Since the municipalities have a planning monopoly over how the land in the municipalities is used, it is possible that we thought this would be a new place where you would not have any impact at all. The general motive for doing so was to have a force of strength. I can agree that it is probably a good thing that a guide has been developed on how to get the force done. This is also stated in the report. I think there has been a shortage in this area – it might even have stood where the decision should be made and the time it should be taken. If the result is that the municipality does not agree, it is often – I want to, but to exaggerate – that it applies to almost all cases – that it has not had the dialogue with the municipality that it should have had. They apply for wind power and present the municipalities with completed facts. Then there's the conflict on the table. This is usually the case. With an in-depth dialogue one can usually resolve the matter, and then the strength is only a formal end of the process. It's somewhere to look for improvements in the system.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-811	Mr President, I would like to I'll try to be very constructive. The guidelines that Tysklind is talking about are precisely guidelines – it is not concrete legislation, which exists in the environmental code at the same place as the municipalities' possibility of a veto against wind power establishment. If we were to have a concrete proposal to make this a completely legal process that can be appealed and has clear and predictable time frames for those who want to establish themselves, would the Liberals think it would be good if such a system were introduced? It would be like some kind of intermediate, that the municipalities have the opportunity to say no but that one can appeal the decision. In this way, it would be a completely legal, transparent and, above all, fast state-of-the-art process, which we need if we are to have 100% renewable energy.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-813	Mr President, I would like to The guidelines we are now talking about are relatively new. We'll see what they lead to. I am not prepared to say here and now that further legislation is needed here. You can draw the parallel to the municipality's influence and mandate within the planning and construction law otherwise that is quite definitive. If a municipality says no to a plan, that is not possible either. This is in fact fully in line with the land use decisions taken by the municipalities in general. As I said, as far as the guidelines are concerned, I think it is appropriate to wait for them to be dealt with out in the municipalities, because I think that even in the municipalities there has been a little uncertainty as to where decisions should be made, whether it is in the municipal board, in some council or in the municipal council. Then I also know that there is, of course, the possibility of obstinate a decision, as it does in all contexts, by avoiding putting it on the table. But it is a little bit to abuse the situation. I would like to return to this point that if you have an in-depth dialogue, you should not have to get into that position at all. In conclusion, we'll never get along. The Left Party will call it a municipal veto and the Liberals will call it a municipal force, so we will probably continue to use a little different words.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-818	Mr President, I would like to It has now been more than 40 years since the big poison scandal in Teckomatorp in Skåne was discovered. In the early 70s, BT Kemi had buried hundreds of barrels full of phenoxy acids and pesticides in the ground next to the factory. When the barrels were dug up, it turned out that they had rusted up and started leaking poison. The poison was found in adjacent wells, in the soil of a greenhouse and in the irrigation water. The poison was also found in the adjacent Braån. When the factory was built in the 1960s, Sweden had no environmental legislation to talk about. And when the district court issued its decision in the late 70s, it became a liberating judgment, because the prosecutor could not show that the phenoxy acids in Braån, for example, came just from the buried barrels. After all, it could not be ruled out that there were other sources that could have caused the poison leak. Moreover, it was doubtful whether there was any intention to harm people and the environment when the barrels were once buried. On the contrary, it was claimed that they were buried to protect against the poison, which is questionable. To clean up the area around BT Kemi has taken a long time and cost a lot of money, but it has been done. Today, it is a large recreation area after more than 100 tons of soil has been dug away and transported by boat to Germany where the soil has finally been sanitized. Today, in Sweden, we have a completely different and much more stringent environmental legislation than the one in force in the 1970s and 1980s. Activities that have a negative impact on the environment must be carefully tested, and strict requirements must be imposed on them in order to protect the environment. At the same time, it is important that licensing processes are designed in such a way that they do not unduly hinder, delay and increase investments that modernise businesses, create jobs and growth and, in the end, often reduce the overall environmental impact. As stated in the report, the trials and requirements of the authorities must be simple, predictable and effective, and the long processing times in permit cases must be cut. This is why Parliament's announcement on this issue is important in order to ensure a smooth and smooth administration. Mr President, I would like to Swedish environmental legislation has a high level of ambition in many respects, but at the same time we have to note that compliance falls in several areas. For the Christian Democrats, the protection of our common habitat has always been a high priority. Intentional pollution and violation of environmental laws are serious offences which, unfortunately, continue, partly because of too low a penalty. For the vast majority of environmental crimes being prosecuted, the penalty is daily fines, and that is not dissuasive enough. In order to prevent infringements of environmental laws, more stringent sanctions are needed. The Christian Democrats are therefore proposing stricter penalties up to prison for more serious environmental crimes. With increased criminality, environmental crimes will also be given higher priority by prosecutors. Environmental crime has similarities with economic crime. The direct effects of the crimes are often diffuse but can lead to long-term and extensive environmental damage and thus also to major societal costs. Prosecution is therefore very important. The investigations are often complex and require special professional knowledge and expertise from both police and prosecutors. The National Unit for Environmental and Work Environment Targets is a national operational unit within the Swedish Public Prosecutor's Office. The unit deals with infringements of the Environmental Code and related regulations, work environment offences and breaches of the Work Environment Act, violations of the Act on Action against Pollution from Ships and related regulations and regulations, environmental crime prosecuted under other primary legislation such as the Criminal Code and serious hunting crimes against protected predators. That is the responsibility of this national unit. The assessment is that the National Unit for Environmental and Work Environment Goals has sufficient knowledge, capacity and organisation for the most part. On the other hand, the police's investigative resources need to be strengthened. It is therefore important to ensure that the police have these resources to give priority to work on environmental crime. Mr President, I would like to I support the Christian Democrats' reservation 2 on a tougher grip on environmental crime.
i-a1a402b4a652cf18-833	Mr President, I would like to I would like to draw the attention of the House to two things in this debate. First of all, I am pleased that this afternoon the Parliament will approve a motion to simplify and shorten permit procedures. As I see it, it goes without saying that we should make strict demands on activities that may potentially have a negative impact on the environment. However, licensing processes must and should be designed in such a way that they do not unduly hinder or delay investments that may even be positively modernising businesses and businesses, creating jobs and the growth that we want in our society. This overall can actually reduce the overall environmental impact. I find it strange that we could not have a united committee on this issue. Mr President, I would like to The second point I want to make is the need to review the Swedish implementation of the Aarhus Convention's rights of speech. I and the Center Party are, of course, behind the Aarhus Convention, but at the same time we see a problem in the fact that decisions taken democratically, which can be exemplified by the hunting of wolves, may be delayed or even made impossible by judicial trials and the right of appeal contained in the Aarhus Convention. This depends, among other things, on the organisational requirements for environmental organisations and their right to use the right to speak. In our opinion, this right of appeal should be reviewed. The same can be said of forests and forestry in our country. This right of appeal is, in fact, contrary to the property rights and property protection enshrined in the Swedish Constitution. Not only that, but property rights and property protection are also enshrined in the European Convention and in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Ownership thus forms a basis both for democracy and for the market economy in which we live and want to live. It is therefore serious when courts and authorities lack clarity about something as crucial as ownership. Therefore, ownership and property protection must be taken into account in decisions of courts and authorities. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support Amendment No 6 in the report.
