i-d30c39520a3561c7-2	Mr President, I would like to In recent years, an economic policy debate has almost always begun with the stacking of causes of concern: concerns about the world economy, European banks, protectionism, Brexit, the political situation in the United States, increased tensions in our neighbourhood and terrorism. It is relevant to worry about and act to deal with all of this and a lot of other things. But it can also be said that despite all these concerns and all the downside risks and despite all the challenges, problems and uncertainties that always exist about the future, we are also seeing a strong strength in the Swedish economy today. There is strength and resources to face unexpected and negative events and strength to take new steps in our community building. That strength exists because the government has turned large deficits into surpluses. 200 000 more go to work today compared to when the government took office. Unemployment among young people is the lowest in just over a decade, and the construction of housing, not least apartments, is the highest in several decades. New billions have also been invested in welfare. Nevertheless, we are, of course, not satisfied with the situation or even with the progress that has been made. School results have turned up again, but there are still far too many who learn too little and the inequality in school results is too great. Swedish healthcare may be ranked high in the world, but too many patients have to wait too long to get it. More jobs are being hired than in a very long time and jobs are growing at a rapid pace, but employers still find it difficult to find workers with the right qualifications. 100 000 jobs are not created because the skills are lacking, and at the same time many are without jobs. Uncertainty is still widespread. Despite the fact that crime has generally declined for a long time, hand grenades, shootings, gang crime and terrorism still terrify people and communities. Housing construction may be high, but many people have and will continue to find it difficult to find suitable housing in many parts of the country. That is why the policy needs to be sustained and to be built on steadily. Land won will be maintained and progress consolidated, and where there is more to be done, new efforts will be made. Thanks to the new economic situation that the Government's responsible economic policy has laid the foundation for, there is also room for important reinforcements of Swedish society. Already in this year's budget, in the spring amending budget, there are several additions. This is, for example, about increased security for children and women through investments in maternity care. The government is taking new measures to create greater security by stepping up its fight against crime, both where it occurs and where it is at risk of emerging. We're shooting another $700 million to the police department. At the same time, the penalties for gun crimes are tightened. But the fight against crime and for greater security cannot only be carried out by the police. We have a common responsibility to prevent crime from being committed and to interrupt criminal careers before they begin. It is not least about young people staying in school and not being recruited into gangs or criminal networks. The fact that the school and g ymnasieskolan are strengthened by SEK 650 million where the needs are greatest is an important piece of the puzzle in this work, as well as the reinforcement by a quarter billion to social support and psychiatric care for children and young people. More steps must also be taken to speed up the climate transition, and this is now being done through an additional half a billion to climate investments in Sweden. This policy orientation also needs to be maintained in the coming years and in the autumn budget. The government has already announced an additional SEK 5 billion in welfare next year, where more than half of it is directed to health care and the other billions are focused on schools and jobs in municipalities. More efforts will be made to facilitate the recruitment of companies and equip the unemployed to take on the jobs that will emerge in the coming years. When others want to take a spring note in climate policy, Sweden will stand up for concluded agreements and show that jobs, prosperity and climate responsibility go hand in hand. Housing construction must be sustainable at current levels or higher. This requires expertise for the sector, simplification of rules and continued support for municipalities and construction. Mr President, I would like to At the same time, there is now an extremely strange debate on economic policy on the part of the opposition. Thanks to a responsible policy, the government has eliminated large unfunded tax cuts and turned the previous moderate-led government's deficit of over SEK 60 billion in 2014 into surplus each year this term of office. The same parties that increased the deficits each year are now critical that the government has not precipitated these deficits and increased surpluses quickly enough. The credibility of that criticism would have been greater if they had given up the idea of major tax cuts. But they haven't. If you read the budgets of the five opposition parties, you can see that together they have committed over SEK 100 billion for tax cuts as early as next year. It is almost a blueprint of the policy that led to deficits in the last parliamentary term that grew year after year. Mr President, I would like to Thanks to the tightening up of the economic policy pursued by the government, we can now have a debate on how to use the surpluses. There are clear alternatives here. On the one hand, there is a government that realises that reduced taxes are not the solution to the growing skills shortage or lack of security in Swedish society. It is a government that therefore chooses to invest in education, skills development, supplementary training and jobs for those groups that are far from the labour market. It is a government that increases the resources for the welfare of more nurses and nurses who can help us when we are weak, old or sick, for more teachers and preschool teachers who can develop and teach children and young people more, for more police workers and soldiers who can increase our security and for more housing so that all the young people who now get their first job or get into their dream education in the autumn can get the keys to their first apartment and kick off the free and independent life that they naturally long for. On the other hand, there is a split opposition which is currently barely able to rally around its own parade of tax cuts in an inferno of accusations of lying party leaders among themselves. Mr President, I would like to There is, of course, now a disagreement not only on the substance of the policy, but also on the form of economic policy. It is difficult to see the particular opinion of the opposition contained in the guidelines in a different way from the fact that in practice they no longer support the overall budgetary process that we have had in Sweden since the crisis in the 1990s. Prior to the introduction of the current framework, temporary parliamentary majority could carry out unfunded tax cuts or expenditure increases without taking responsibility for other economic policies. This is a safe recipe for driving large and growing deficits in public finances. I think it is telling that the opposition has devoted a great deal of effort to talking about abolishing taxes while echoing empty information about how these tax cuts are to be financed. Regardless of how many rhetorical blunders Ulf Kristersson chooses to use, the fact remains; at the moment that temporary parliamentary majorities weaken public finances, we enter a sloping plan that will sooner or later lead Sweden into difficult economic problems. The fact that a candidate for finance from a party that at least had the ambition to bear the responsibility for Sweden chooses that path is deeply unfortunate. However, this is not the only area in which the Moderates set out a completely new line in economic policy. Even when it comes to the view of the expenditure ceilings – another central part of the framework – the Moderates now have a completely new line, massed together to make it easier to cut welfare and lower taxes. The announcement that the Moderates and Ulf Kristersson are behind is quite different from what he stood for in government and from what Anna Kinberg Batra stood for in the Finance Committee during the last term of office. The government at the time, of which Kristersson was a part, received a similar remark about the expenditure ceilings from the Swedish National Audit Office. At that time, we jointly stated – across block borders and in full agreement – that the issue of ceilings is not a technical issue but an expression of different political positions. It is natural, because it is basically about the very size of the welfare state. We also agreed that in the margin between today's expenditure and tomorrow's ceiling there is room for possible future reforms. Here, the Moderates and the Swedish Democrats, with common forces, want to instead rig the system against investments in welfare to push forward cuts in favour of tax cuts – towards welfare, for tax cuts. This is being done in a situation where everyone knows that the number of children and the elderly will be increasing in our country in the future, and they will need more help and support from more teachers, nannys, nurses and nurses. Views of the ceilings and of hopeful majorities weakening the economy are two key issues for the stability of the framework. In the past there has been unity, but now the Moderates instead wave forward, hand in hand with the Swedish Democrats. Mr President, I would like to Sweden needs continued investment in jobs, welfare, security and climate change. That policy must be based on a clear and responsible economic policy. I therefore support the committee's proposal in the report in paragraphs 1 and 2 and the reservations in paragraphs 3 and 4.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-29	Mr President, I would like to An international trend in economic policy is the desire to build walls instead of bridges. Protectionism and trade barriers are popular among those who would be protected from competition. But it's expensive and bad for everyone else. In the past, it was often regarded as left-wing politics. Now, in several countries, it also seems to be right-wing politics. For all of us, on the other hand, who are rooted in the values of freedom, the market economy and international openness, this is a bad thing in principle. National mistrust replaces international cooperation. It simply creates a worse world. It is also industrially bad. For over a hundred years we have learned in Sweden that international trade benefits a small country with large export companies. Few countries have so much to lose from neo-nationalist barriers to trade as Sweden. Mr President, I would like to Trying to protect Swedish companies from competition would therefore be a very bad idea. But not caring about how Swedish companies are doing, which the Swedish government does not seem to do anymore, is just as bad an idea. It is not protectionism to protect good growth conditions in Sweden. It is not isolationism to want our international companies to keep their head offices in Sweden – vice versa. We, Swedish politicians, have a responsibility to ensure that companies and entrepreneurs have good opportunities to run companies – in Sweden. However, that responsibility does not take on the government. Three recent examples show that the fragile respect between politics and business is being destroyed. The government's economic policy, and rhetoric, bear a heavy responsibility for the mistrust that is now growing among many entrepreneurs. My first example is the financial tax and the so-called resolution fees. The Minister of Finance was recently forced to back down from the financial tax that would hit several hundred thousand Swedish companies and drive jobs out of the country. Instead, the government wanted to increase the resolution fees and remove the cap that made them a risk-based fee. Even that idea has now allowed the government to back off. Using the resolution fee like any tax was a bad idea. Resolution fees contribute to a more stable financial system, but if they are decoupled from their actual task, they lose legitimacy. And there had been a great risk that they would rise again and again. Instead, the fee remained a temporary increase in the election year. Perhaps Nordea will stay in Sweden, perhaps not. The government repented, but the damage was already done. Swedish companies cannot count on the Swedish government's basic support. That's a bad signal. Mr President, I would like to My second example concerns the airline tax. With the wonderful argument that it is good for the environment but still does not affect air travel, the government wants to introduce a Swedish air tax. Of course, aviation should bear more of its environmental costs, not least in order to drive forward technologies that reduce emissions. But a local Swedish tax does not do that job, especially as the tax is to be paid per trip and not per amount of emissions. On the contrary, a Swedish airline tax is hitting SAS hard and risks erasing the company's rather modest profits. An airline which is partly owned by the state and which is of great importance to the Swedish business community would thus be penalised by Sweden. Does the government even know what this means for SAS? The risk is obvious that SAS will have to move more long-distance flights from Arlanda to Kastrup. The government's policy deliberately makes Sweden even more distant. My third example is Reepalus's investigation, this amazing investigation. In its eagerness to stop the alleged profit hunt in welfare, the government is threatening legislation that would oblige thousands of companies that provide millions of people with care and education to close down their operations in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I'm afraid there's a pattern. The government ministers do not understand that it is large and small companies that create the prosperity that we in politics can then democratically allocate to welfare. They do not understand that politics and business must work together. The logic of politics is not business, nor should it be. We have different tasks. But politics must show respect for those who go to work every morning and make completely different kinds of decisions. Do we dare to invest? Do we dare hire another one? Or are we forced to shut down? Do we have to sell or even move out of here? Companies don't do what we do in here just today. They have no budget debates where they decide their own income. They have customers who have to want to pay for the right quality. Politics should devote more effort to cooperation with the business community on seed ant that is good for the whole of Sweden and less time to threatening and ridiculed outcomes. For example, the Minister of Finance says that increased entrepreneurial taxes most affect those who are hanging out at Stureplan, or that it doesn't matter if Nordea moves. Then she embezzles the necessary trust capital for Swedish politics. Another example is the Prime Minister's 70s-scented VPK rhetoric about children being sold on the stock exchange. Sweden needs good and stable economic rules so that the companies of the future want to grow in Sweden. It is a vital Swedish interest. Mr President, I would like to After a lost term of office, Sweden needs a new reform agenda. Let me point out four major economic policy tasks for a new Swedish government. The first and most urgent is about integration and exclusion. Half a million new arrivals will need to be established in Sweden between 2010 and 2020. About half of them have upper secondary education in their luggage. Today it takes nine years for even half of us to get some kind of job. If Sweden is to be an international, open country, more people simply have to get into jobs and community, and not just into Sweden. Sweden must close the gap between domestic and foreign born jobs. This requires reforms that both strengthen the driving forces to take up existing jobs and lower the thresholds for those who are not entering the labour market at all today. This is hard, no doubt about it, but there are no shortcuts. Sweden must develop the work line. It must pay to work in Sweden even at lower incomes. We therefore propose the largest job tax reform in Sweden since 2006. But Sweden also needs a major grant reform. With today's rules, a three-child family with no income from work can receive a grant of 28 000 SEK per month after tax. If one of the parents starts working, the total income can even decrease. This is not reasonable. The total amount of benefit income should never be higher than the salary. That is why we are proposing that Sweden should introduce a completely new premium ceiling into the benefit systems. At the same time, Swedish grant schemes must be based more on gradual qualification and less on immediate access. Full access to social benefits should be obtained through employment or through legal and permanent residence in Sweden. We therefore propose the largest Swedish grant reform since 1980. Mr President, I would like to Helping more people with low levels of education into the labour market is absolutely necessary, but certainly not enough. The future of Sweden is, of course, not in low paid, simpler jobs but in high paid, more difficult jobs. The second major task is therefore about entrepreneurs, entrepreneurship and growing innovative companies. Sweden must become more attractive to innovative entrepreneurs and growing companies. Only successful companies can create the jobs that enable more people to support themselves and contribute to the well-being of others. Increased marginal taxes, increased entrepreneurial taxes and new aviation taxes make this more difficult. On the contrary, we will make this easier. The third major task is to equip Sweden for the next recession. Then you have to be able to hold on to the money too when it goes well. The government's and Left's budget is based on eternal prosperity, low interest rates and the hope that Sweden will never face a serious crisis again. It is a very risky economic policy strategy. Sweden has now changed the deficit of the financial crisis into modest surpluses, and in the North Korean way the government is pouring praise for itself. Few others are equally impressed. In its most recent review, the Council of Finance Ministers writes that, in the current economic situation, the government is choosing to weaken public finances this year. It's pretty startling. Fourthly, the economic policy of the welfare country Sweden will facilitate jobs and growth, but it will also combat poverty and contribute to a decent distribution of resources and life chances. Some of this we in Sweden are already good at. The real poverty in Sweden is the lowest in the EU. Income development has been good for Swedish employees. Increasing income gaps are now due to the differences between those who have jobs and those who do not have jobs. I draw two conclusions from this. One is that the best welfare and distribution policy is a policy for more jobs. The second is that the dangerous gap in today's Sweden is about what opportunities the next generation will have. Growing up under good conditions and passing school is good for almost everyone. Growing up in socially tough environments and not able to pass school dramatically increases the risk that later in life goes really bad. Moreover, the risks are unequally distributed both geographically and ethnically. The children who grow up in one of the 130 exclusion areas, where less than half of them work, get much worse chances than other children in Sweden. This does not apply to social mobility. Instead, social problems are passed on to the next generation. We can't have it like this, and it doesn't have to be like that. The new divides cause Sweden to drift apart, not only economically but socially, humanly, politically. It creates mistrust and discouragement when, more than for a long time, we need a policy that gives hope and confidence in the future, and it can be reversed. Almost all serious reform policies in recent decades in the United States, Sweden and Germany have primarily focused on making it more profitable to work for those who have the toughest. That is the line we need to take. Good welfare and distribution policies in globalised Sweden are therefore not about more grants, but about more children going to good preschools, that young people should meet higher expectations in school and that all adults are expected to go to work. Then more people can build their own good future in Sweden. Mr President, I would like to I support the moderate budget reservation in the report by the Committee on Finance.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-61	Mr President, I would like to An important part of a good business environment, for jobs and for stable well-being is also stable public finances and a framework that leads to order and orderly and stable public finances. After all, this is now being asked. I have listened to Ulf Kristersson's earlier statements in the media. There he has referred to the fact that the majority of Parliament has a different opinion from the government when it comes to a number of taxes and that they should therefore be removed. Can Ulf Kristersson tell us what corresponding cuts this parliamentary majority intends to finance the requested changes with?
i-d30c39520a3561c7-64	Mr President, I would like to It's very simple. Just read our budget and you'll find the answer to that question. You can take almost anyone you want, it's optional. We are not saying that the budget should be broken; you know that. Because you've done it. It is only you in modern times who have broken the Swedish budget and made a pickpin out of it. We never have, and neither will we. What we are saying is that a parliamentary majority has the right to demand a minority government to do its job. Come back with a budget that we can tolerate; then you will get through it!
i-d30c39520a3561c7-67	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson's answer is rather telling. The Moderates have been clear in the past that a concerted budgetary process is necessary in order not to allow hopeful majorities to weaken public finances. We Social Democrats have not done that. We have strengthened public finances. What the Moderates now want to do is remove taxes, but you cannot present here how it will be financed. Someone else will. That is precisely the problem with the path that the Moderates are now taking with hopeful majorities that cannot form a whole that takes responsibility for public finances. This is what Ulf Kristersson has just stood for – that is, my line. Not even three months ago, Ulf Kristersson wrote in Expressen: That is how serious economic policy should be. On this we in M is in complete agreement. ..................................................... Now Ulf Kristersson doesn't even seem to agree with himself compared to three months ago. New seems the Moderates are already throwing almost any serious economic policy overboard. What has caused Ulf Kristersson to change his mind, to abandon the view he has been arguing for for many years, most recently just a few months ago? Are the Moderates now so desperate about the crowd that followed when Kristersson and Anna Kinberg Batra wanted to work with Jimmie Åkesson and Oscar Sjöstedt that you are now prepared to do anything to seem a bit energetic? I want to say one more thing. Believe nothing else, Ulf Kristersson, but that if you open up to a process in which the Riksdag in one way or another can weaken the budget by hopeful majorities, well, then the strong Swedish economy will soon crumble, just as your opinion support has done.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-72	Mr President, I would like to This is nonsense, and I think Fredrik Olovsson knows about it. I do not always agree with the Minister for Finance in every detail; it is admitted. But she said a few years ago that it is not a parliamentary majority's task to manage the budget of a small minority government through the Riksdag. It is to solve that task that you have governments. We're not breaking anything. We say to you: Come back with a budget that a minority government has a chance to get through in parliament! It is the government that lays down a whole budget. It is the government's responsibility that plus and minus go together. None of this has changed. We are simply saying that in the long run we will not tolerate the government resting on the economic policy of the Left Party. You simply will not be able to do that.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-76	Mr President, I would like to We now have a very worrying trend in Sweden, as fewer and fewer people go to the public professions. We see this in health care, care and blue light professions. As far as police officers were concerned, there were barely 6 000 applicants this year compared to well over 8 000 last year. More police officers left last year than there are training places in total, and several of these training places are gaping empty. The Government's ambition – after much if and but – that Sweden should have more police officers is of course something positive in substance. But how on earth should you succeed in that ambition when you don't think it's worthwhile to invest in the attractiveness of the police profession? If last year were to be a trend, on the contrary, we are moving towards a situation of fewer, not more, police officers. It goes without saying that a newly trained inexperienced police officer cannot directly replace someone who has been in the profession for years. How does it help to create even more training places and even more police colleges if several of the current training places are empty? A little symptomatic of this is that while the so-called Järva Political Week was going on, with themes such as insecurity and segregation, we were reached with information that the Järva Police Station will be closed down. The reason is a shortage of staff. What effect does this have on all the caring and law - abiding people living there? The answer to all this is, of course, better working conditions for the police and not least a police management with completely different priorities and motivations. For most ordinary people, being a social democrat is not a huge merit. Yet this is the only merit that the current chief of police has to show. Mr President, I would like to Nearly 10 000 trained and experienced nurses work in professions other than health care. Stress, workload in relation to working hours, small or non-existent ability to control their own work situation and poor wage development are the reasons why they leave the profession. We know this because they have been asked, not least in the framework of a major study carried out by SCB. However, the satisfaction of this study is that the majority of them can also envisage returning to the profession with the right conditions, i.e. better working conditions. In this context, of course, it is gratifying that the government has not only identified the problem but is also trying to do something about it and is pushing at least 2 billion to strengthen working conditions in healthcare. This is both too little and too late, but at least it is a step in the right direction. On the other hand, I and the Minister for Finance do not agree on the conditions for this type of contribution. The Minister for Finance has full confidence that her councillor knows best, and she neither specifies nor earmarks the money. I am far more sceptical about simply spending money without control or follow-up. It has been tried and evaluated in the past, and what happened was that the money went to things that were not the intended purpose. For example, these 2 billion are not enough to finance a full-time right for all those who work part-time involuntarily today. In fact, it's not even half way enough. A reform on the right to full-time employment, which is fully funded in the draft budget of the Swedish Democrats, is not just a question of justice. It is, of course, partly about that, but not just about it. The reform would lead to an additional 25 000 full-year labour force, mainly in the health and long-term occupations. In addition to the increase in ambition that this would entail for welfare as a whole, it would of course also reduce the workload and stress of existing staff. Furthermore, we must strengthen the worker's ability to continue training in his profession, on paid working hours, for those who wish to do so. The assistant nurse should be able to further educate herself. The nurse should be able to become a specialist nurse and thereby strengthen both her skills and salary development. Mr President, I would like to I have taken note of a rather difficult argument both from the Social Democratic side and from their allies within the Landsorganisation. It is about the fact that if you want to reduce taxes, it is not possible to invest in welfare at the same time. Of course, nothing could be more wrong. Apart from the fact that it does not take into account so-called dynamic effects, i.e. that wise and clever tax cuts – for small businesses, for example – can lead to more people getting into jobs, that the tax base is growing and that the overall tax charge is thus increasing, there are so many strange and wrong priorities in the government's budget bill that one is amazed. Some of these are:
i-d30c39520a3561c7-88	The figures I mention here refer to this year, i.e. 2017. It subsidises fuels with a multi-billion-dollar amount in a way that does not strengthen Sweden's competitiveness or lead to environmental benefits at a global level. It maintains completely incomprehensible maternal impairments, such as reduced restaurant VAT. It costs the state about 6 billion annually and has created as little as 1,000 new jobs, according to a report from the Institute of Economic Development. This means SEK 6 million per new job. The state wants to buy a lot of forest and other land from private foresters – don't ask me why, because I don't know. For this, SEK 1.3 billion per year is the appropriation in the Government's budget. All this is just a small sample of the government's efforts, and the aim is, of course, to illustrate that it is perfectly possible to both reduce taxes and invest in health care and still get plus and minus to merge on the last row. It is exclusively a matter of priorities. I can promise our own voters that we do not intend to set the same priorities as the government does. In this context, let me say something about the follow-up motion also dealt with in the report. It is that the government should also report on the employment effects of its economic policy in its budget proposal. It received the support of the Swedish Democrats in the Committee on Finance, and thus it was supported by a majority. To measure employment effects, as I admit is difficult, the government ended with hasty and amusing. I think everyone understands why. It will simply be much more difficult to defend tax increases for small businesses and ordinary wage earners if they have to be accounted for at the same time. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to say a few words about the Alliance's move last week to stop a couple of these for jobs very damaging tax increases. I had not recommended the line they finally chose. On the contrary, I have always been clear that if you are to challenge the government's economic policy, as there are many reasons to do, you should do so within the framework of an entire budget. In this way, the whole can be set against the whole. That would be right and proper with regard to the voters. One gets a discussion on the substance of the policy and at the same time avoids a discussion on constitutional practicalities, such as whether one side or the other is in breach of the Budget Act or not. The focus is precisely on substance policy. This was not achieved, and that is something I regret. On the other hand, we naturally supported the so-called special opinion, which has an underlying threat of censure on individual ministers. The reason for this is very simple: we believe that all current ministers should be dismissed and made available to the labour market. However, this underlying threat disappeared very quickly after the Center Party had once again ridden out to Stefan Lövven's defence and declared that it was not intended to raise any suspicions at all and, in any case, not against the responsible Minister of State, that is, the Minister of Finance. Although the three remaining alliance parties are prepared to give force to the words and, with our support, gather a majority against the three red-green parties, everything falls flat, because mistrust requires an absolute majority. A simple majority is not enough. Of course, most people in this House know this, but it may also be of interest to one or another electorate to know that the actions of the Center Party allow the Finance Minister to breathe out and that the government can therefore remain in office. It's as simple as that. Mr President, I would like to I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation No 2.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-97	Mr President, I would like to Many beautiful words about health care come from the Swedish Democrats these days. For my part, I wonder whether one can trust a party whose party leader at a press conference explained this newfound interest in the fact that it is only a question of capitalising on health care because, according to the polls, it has become a more important issue. It is also a party that last autumn presented large savings in municipalities and county councils. Given that the Swedish Democrats cannot tell voters how to finance these initiatives, the interest in publicly funded health care may at best be described as a new wake and a little superficial. Perhaps we should look at this newfound interest in the same way as in terms of the benefits of welfare. After all, the Swedish democrats went to elections on the view that large profits were unacceptable. After a few dinners with the venture capitalists' lobbyists, the Swedish Democrats now think that there should be no restrictions on profit withdrawals from welfare. It was quite quick to change that line. Just a few days ago, the Swedish Democrats also voted against proposals that would stop the sale of our large and important university hospitals. Even in the Finance Committee, you have changed your line. Now you want to rig the system against investment in health care and welfare and instead allow for new tax cuts. All in all, one could say that SD's line is to capitalise on health care for partisan reasons, give venture capitalists unlimited scope to capitalise on welfare, open to selling our large and important university hospitals, save on municipalities and county councils, which provide care and care, and also rig the system of spending ceilings against investments in welfare but for reduced taxes. How they can think that there would be better health care or better working conditions in the care of it is very difficult to understand.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-100	Mr President, I would like to We will certainly not support the so-called Reepalus investigation, which was ordered as a concession to the Communist Party for the Social Democrats to ensure its budget support. It won't happen. This investigation is cluttered with a lot of problems and would effectively lead to the disappearance of all the private alternatives in health care – options that are appreciated by families with children, the elderly and many other citizens, not to mention all those who work there. Almost every other health centre is now privately operated. Almost every other health centre would therefore need to be closed down if that investigation were to go through. We will certainly not support it. Nor is it true that we went to elections on something that is in line with the Reepalus investigation. We went to elections that we are clear that it is the content of the welfare activities that is crucial, not the form of operation. If the activity is carried out in public, as a limited liability company, by a foundation or by an association, it is not essential, but the substance of the matter. It is very clear that that is what we went to elections on, and that is what we are following up on. We'll bet pretty hard. As I was in my main speech, I think it is positive that the government wants to contribute SEK 2 billion to working conditions in health and social care, but we are investing considerably more because it is much more needed. As far as the financing of our efforts is concerned, I mentioned quite a few areas in the state budget where we are cutting back. In Category 8 Migration, we are making major cuts because we have a different focus on policy. We are also making substantial cuts in areas 13 and 14 of expenditure. We also have some tax increases that I mentioned in my main speech. We have a fully funded budget where plus and minus goes together. Every year we have had stronger financial savings than the government, and we will have that this autumn as well.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-104	Mr President, I would like to Making it more difficult by cutting back on the establishment in Sweden for people who have been granted a residence permit will not be a saving. This will lead to long-term costs. It is well that it is possible to trust the Swedish Democrats as much when it comes to health care as it is when it comes to profit withdrawals from welfare. Now Oscar Sjöstedt is trying to write about what the Swedish Democrats actually said before the elections and before he met the lobbyists from the venture capitalists. It was because you were against these winnings without limitation, Oscar Sjöstedt. Now, however, you stand for profit withdrawals without limitation. In addition, the Swedish Democrats have a system in which they gradually join all the tax cuts presented by the Moderates. In addition, now you are rigging the system of spending ceilings so that it will be more difficult to invest in welfare and, instead, easier to reduce taxes. That is the meaning of the announcement that is now on Parliament's table. You do so in a situation where everyone knows that demographics will present major challenges for welfare in the future. There will be more children, more young people and more elderly people who need school, preschool, upper secondary school, care for the elderly and health care. In this situation, you believe that investment in welfare should be held back. I'll tell Oscar Sjöstedt something. As there are more older and more children in need of more help, cuts, privatisations and unlimited profit withdrawals will give less care and insecure people and make Sweden weaker.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-108	Mr President, I would like to What I referred to was the statement that was decided at the party's election conference in March 2014. That's what we went to elections on. We will present a counter-proposal against the Reepalu investigation insofar as it will be translated into some form of proposal or equivalent. Once it lands on Parliament's table, we will present our counter-proposal, which will retain the possibility of more actors, including private ones, but which has very clear quality requirements, such as requirements for financial stability, sanctions for those who do not behave, clearer authorisation testing, much clearer supervision, supervision and so on. It will contain many of these things and many more things as well. I think that will be a good regulatory framework. I think it will be possible to bring together a majority in this House, perhaps not on my proposal, but on the general orientations, and that is what will then apply in the future. It is interesting that Fredrik Olovsson mentions that I want to cut down on the expenditure area that concerns the establishment of newly arrived immigrants, namely the expenditure category 13, which has grown and grown to be comparable in size to the entire judiciary, the entire Swedish Armed Forces or something like that. There have been evaluations of the establishment mission. Of those who go through all of this from day one and a couple of years forward, it is in the order of 4 – 5 percent that goes to a real job. The rest don't. As a politician, I do not think that we can spend tens or twenty billions on something where 4 – 5% end up in a real job. It's not working. There must be completely different things in the labour market. We must have a completely different type of employment agency. Perhaps we should not have an employment service but have more actors there too to make it more effective.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-111	Mr President, I would like to Yesterday, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency decided on the 1 000th climate action within the framework of the Climate Act. With the help of this initiative, climate investments have been made across the country's municipalities, companies, schools and regions. Thanks to the Climate Tree, effective climate projects have been implemented in all of Sweden's counties. These include 9 000 charging points for electric cars, 200 measures for electrical conversion and a number of investments in biogas production. There are measures everywhere, and it is clear that the whole country is currently in a green transition. Climate change is a successful initiative, and the result is also the reason why the government extended it and spent more money to co-finance even more measures. Between 2015 and 2020, Climate change will have enabled investments of SEK 8 – 10 billion. Climate change is an important part of the necessary climate change change that needs to be achieved. Over a thousand. So many years we live the carbon dioxide we emit now from oil, coal and natural gas in the atmosphere. Over a thousand years! A thousand years ago, it was medieval. Surely those who lived then could not imagine the society we have today. Climate change is the destiny of our time, and climate change and fuel changes are important steps along the way. It takes both parts and so much more. Therefore, the government invests in increased protection of nature but also effective environmental taxes. The green tax exchange carried out by the Green Party and the Social Democrats in 2001 – 2006 was an international forerunner, a forerunner that the Alliance government chose to end when it took office. This parliamentary term we have implemented a number of green reform proposals, and more are to be expected. An increasing number of alarming reports of ice melting, drought spreading and approaching natural disasters do not give us time to wait. Meeting the climate challenge requires a transition of all sectors. Even industries that have travelled in a tax-free sour cream, such as aviation, must be prepared to pay part of their environmental costs. Sweden will continue to be a pioneer country. We know the impact it can have, and now it is needed more than ever. We saw how our green tax shift in the early 2000s reduced emissions and set examples for others. We now see that our repair allowance is of great international interest. But Sweden should not only be a pioneer in climate change. We can also show that conversion is a development. When we change Sweden, we create the opportunity for new industries to grow and for more jobs. Increased rail maintenance, 100% renewable expansion, reduced VAT for nature guides and more measures show that new jobs are being created. Grow support 2.0 provides companies with reduced employers' contributions, which means that more people can get into work. That's how we create a society for more people. Mr President, I would like to Over a thousand. A few weeks ago, the 193 member states of the UN agreed on over a thousand measures to save the oceans. The work for our seas takes place globally and locally. While Sweden, together with the Fiji island, convened the world's countries to New York, a great deal of work has been done at home. With more maritime reserves and long-term responsibility for our waters, we ensure that the work has an impact on all levels. We shall continue to act nationally and internationally for the climate, for the seas, for equality and peace and for a future for future generations as well. One thousand. This week it has already been born around a thousand children in Sweden. It is for them and for all future generations that we must have the courage to take the decisions needed to reduce emissions today. It is for them that we must pursue an offensive environmental policy. But it is also for those we need to make a lot of other bets. They are needed not least at school. A total of 11⁄2 of the 5 billion that the government spends on welfare next year will be spent on the school. With more teachers, smaller groups of children and more resources for student health, we build the Swedish school stronger. By creating time in school for adults to see each student, we give all children the opportunity to grow and feel good. The Swedish school must improve knowledge outcomes and reduce inequality. The two parts belong together. A more equal school will also be a stronger school of knowledge. This is why the government is focusing its biggest efforts on the very schools that need it most. Because all schools are supposed to be good schools. Step by step, proposals for proposals we want to help create a world-class school, a school that breaks inequality and gives all children better conditions for a good start in life. Mr President, I would like to Last week, the Swedish Parliament decided on a historic climate law. It is important, as it gives us a clear framework and ambition to continue to pursue a policy that makes us a pioneer country. It is therefore gratifying that seven out of eight parties voted in favour of it. But now the ambitions must be followed up by practical action. Then it is not enough to vote for an ambitious climate law one day if the next day is devoted to fighting to exempt polluters from paying for themselves. Then it is not enough to pretend that climate change can take a break and instead focus on reducing taxes for primarily high-income earners. That is simply not enough. The climate issue is too important to be dribbled away among political points. I find it sad to see the reluctance that seems to exist to make the necessary decisions for the necessary transition to take place. I am proud of the work that the government has done, but I am convinced that more needs to be done. The climate is the greatest fate of our time. When others do what they can to escape their responsibilities, we will never back away from doing what is necessary. I'm going to repeat that a thousand and a thousand times. In so doing, I ask for the committee's report to be approved under paragraphs 1 and 2 and the reservations under paragraphs 3 and 4.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-128	Mr President, I would like to We truly live in a time of change. Never before has innovation, innovation and development gone as fast as now. Never before have so many people been in motion, both physically and in mind. Faced with this development, it is not surprising that a number of the phenomena, institutions and development tracks we have taken for granted for a long time now are being fundamentally challenged. We live in a time when industries are transforming and the number of things that could never happen but still happen is constantly increasing. Today, social development often feels like a walk on night-old ice. The only reasonable, rational way to relate to such large amounts of uncertainty is to maintain a proper measure of calm and reflection and to focus on what can actually be influenced. Because, Mr President, there are a number of important reforms and changes for Sweden, in which we ourselves are fully holding the pace. Sweden can have very little influence on the global economy, on the way the Brexit negotiations are going or on when the obvious imbalances of the Chinese economy strike real problems. However, we entirely own the question of how and when we will address the problems we see for Swedish job creation, the labour market and the housing market and in entrepreneurship policy. Despite our smallness, despite Sweden's almost total dependence on our surrounding world, we ourselves hold the tact stick when we build Sweden stronger. Mr President, I would like to I therefore support the Centre Party's reservation 3 in the FiU20 report. Mr President, I would like to I have said in previous debates that Sweden is at the top of a wasted boom. There is reason to repeat that. What I mean by this is that we had a number of structural problems with us entering the economic upturn a number of years ago. These are, above all, too rigid housing and labour markets which, individually and in particular together, create too high thresholds into the community, while at the same time acting as a damper to other forms of development. Unfortunately, it can be said that these fundamental problems for the Swedish economy remain, in many cases worsening after a number of years of good economic times. The political agenda of this parliamentary term chose not to use the cowind of prosperity to solve these problems. These problems will not go away. The Swedish labour market and the housing market will not reform themselves. These problems will have to be solved by future governments and the next responsible parliamentary majority. Mr President, I would like to Modern Swedish political history shows that our country can gather and make tough but necessary decisions. Had it not been for this very reason in the mid-1990s, Sweden would probably have been an economy in Greece's class today. It was not easy to clean up public finances, to make substantial savings in welfare and to give Sweden a fiscal framework for order and order in the economy. It wasn't easy, but it was done. It is an example to be inspired by now that we have similar reform needs but in other areas. It is an example to be inspired by except in one area. In the 1990s, the necessary but tough decisions came after the crisis struck. We in this House, both before and after the forthcoming parliamentary elections, cannot have any ambition other than to make the right decisions at the right time. Mr President, I would like to In recent weeks, Sweden's primary and secondary school students have been on summer holidays. It is a glorious time to wait, not just for those of school age. Many young people will also get their first foot into working life this summer through summer jobs or summer entrepreneurship. The most important job is the first. No matter what you do or exactly how much you earn per hour and so on, we know that life's wages are increasing considerably for those who are early on working and making money. By maximizing the number of people who work in summer, who work extra and who are young and run companies, we also equalize life chances. This is obviously important, not least for those who today do not have their own contacts with employers or who do not have parents right away. In the budget that the Center Party places on Parliament's table, we describe a number of reforms that are important for Sweden. Two of them are focusing precisely on young people getting a foothold on the labour market as quickly as possible. We propose that the employer's contribution be completely abolished up to 18 years. It should be easy and cheap to hire a young person for summer or extra jobs. We are proposing a completely new form of enterprise – a start-up company – that greatly simplifies entrepreneurship. This means that the first hundred and a thousand dollars you earn can be fully earned within the framework of tax and other legislation, but with enormous simplicity for the individual, both the customer and the entrepreneur. We must continue to lower the thresholds into employment, entrepreneurship and value creation. Not least, we must ensure that the first step is also the easiest one. This very thing of removing obstacles and regulations and lowering too salty taxes is significant for a sound economic policy as a whole. One example I would like to highlight, Mr President, is rural policy and rural development. Soon all parties in this House claim to be in favour of better conditions for jobs, living and entrepreneurship around our country. At the same time, we have a majority in this House that is making sure that it is more or less forbidden to build the homes and summer homes that people want to build because of excessive beach protection. At the same time, it is now forbidden for the entrepreneurs who pop up around our country and brew and sell beer, who have vineyards, distilleries and the like to sell their products reasonably to visitors, national as well as international, just as their foreign competitors can. With open eyes, a majority in this House sees to it that value creation, development and job creation that could happen continue to be banned because of too much politics and too many political points. These insights must form the basis when we finally tackle Sweden's problems. It is by enabling people, businesses and associations to do what they want to do that we will create more jobs and that we will reform the housing market for more and cheaper apartments and houses. For those who choose to turn a blind eye to Sweden's structural problems, there are good signs to point out today. Simply: For those who do not want to see Sweden's great need for reform, the generally good times are helping. But even today, at the peak of a boom, Sweden's social problems and this House's passivity are reaping about the same victims in terms of people who do not get into work, people who do not enter the regular housing market and companies that choose to expand and locate their expansion abroad. Spotify – the favourite company of most political parties – is now expanding almost entirely abroad due to Sweden's high marginal taxes, non-functioning housing market and a too poor climate for innovative, growing companies. Mr President, I would like to Sweden must create better conditions for this. We need new, offensive proposals for a green transition, to reduce emissions that are increasing today, to ensure that companies are moving to Sweden rather than moving out and that jobs and housing are emerging, not least for those who do not currently enter the housing or labour market. It is time for an offensive, warm, healthy and libertarian reform policy in this country. The Swedish people are saddening the inaction that characterises this House. All wise political forces need to think about how they become carriers of a much healthier and better social development.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-148	Mr President, I would like to There was not a lot of environmental policy here, but we know from the outset that the Centre would like to make it sound like an offensive policy. But ambitions must also be translated into practical action. When the Center Party had the chance, there was no bonus – the Malus system for cars. There was no green change of fuel. There was no instrument for aviation or for trucks. The Centre Party left behind a 4 million-tonne carbon dioxide emission gap that we are now plugging. The European Commission highlights how green tax shifting measures fell into force when the Alliance took over. Instead, the Center Party pretends it was a great success for that government. In fact, it meant a break for an international predecessor. How does Emil Källström see that the Commission's review of Sweden's environmental policy shows how the green tax exchange fell into effect during the time that the Center Party was in power with the Moderates?
i-d30c39520a3561c7-152	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for the opportunity to talk about environmental policy. I had a paragraph on environmental policy in my script, but because of my multiplicity in other areas I did not have time to take it. As far as environmental policy is concerned, it is clear that Sweden must return to the results of the talk which today characterises it. Emissions are increasing again in Environmental Party Sweden. It is very serious, and we need not only fine words but reforms that lead to reductions in emissions. Janine Alm Ericson points to an evaluation of Swedish environmental policy in recent years. However, it is only to be noted that consensus among environmental assessors says that Swedish environmental policy both during the alliance years – one should be honest and say – and under this government is in the greatest world class. Unfortunately, emissions are increasing right now, and we need to get better. But we should not pretend to be anything but that Sweden is an example and that this was a position taken during the time of the alliance government. What we need now are concrete proposals that both create development and lead to climate benefits. We have presented a bonus – Malus system that works both ways and stimulates new purchases of environmental cars while hitting new purchases of bad cars. The government has a slightly worse variant, and I think it should learn from our proposals. As far as aviation is concerned, policy must focus on what actually makes a difference. I have noted that the government has taken on board and is going to examine our proposal for a green quota obligation, which involves biofuels. That is something I welcome. It's not the talk that makes the difference, it's the workshop. The Center Party has always stood and will always stand for this very thing.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-159	Mr President, I would like to One can of course argue about where the workshop is. The government thinks that the opposition now stands for the most talk, and it can be said that there was not so much workshop during the last period. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency noted that a very large emission gap was left, which is also stated now will be possible to close with the government's policy. These are things that make a difference in reality. Then I think it's good that we find and look at ways to move forward. That the government now comes with an investigation that will look at how we can have more interference and other more environmentally controlling effects on aviation, I think is very good, and it is good that we are more people who think so. However, we see that we need to move forward more quickly. The proposal that is before us shows that we will not achieve the objectives of what we need to do in time. We therefore believe that a flight tax is necessary as part of the package in order to get the climate emissions of aviation right. But I would like to know why Emil Källström thinks it is so extremely important that we do not tackle this issue now, but wait for obligations or international tax systems or whatever it may be. What makes the Center think that we have time to wait and do not have to have all the effects now?
i-d30c39520a3561c7-163	Mr President, I would like to What is important in environmental policy is that it produces real results. During our time in power, economic growth increased while emissions decreased. Emissions are now increasing in Sweden. It is bad and must meet – not, I think, with the same old red-green policy, but with a renewed one. I'd be happy to offer you tips similar to the obligation. The problem with large parts of the Green Party's environmental policy is that it does not lead to efficiency and environmental change. The airline tax is not environmentally sound as it is equal regardless of the fuel you fly with and the efficiency of the aircraft. It is therefore a negative incentive for green change. The same applies to the kilometre tax that I know Janine Alm Ericson still wants to introduce on heavy traffic. It is the same tax regardless of whether you drive on renewable fuels and have zero emissions or drive with old diesel trucks from the 70s, which emits both one and the other. One must have an environmental policy that governs purchasing behaviour and the like towards the effective and the green. A large part of the Green Party's policy places the same emphasis on everything, both what is good for the environment and what is bad. That is bad policy and part of the reason why emissions are now growing. A green tax shift, which was the first question, whose green pillar with tax increases on environmental pollution by four to five is overshadowed by tax increases on jobs and entrepreneurship, does not impress anyone – the environmental movement at least. The green tax shift, as the name suggests, is based on reducing taxes on what you want more of: entrepreneurship, jobs, development. This will always be at the heart of the green tax exchange between me and the Center Party, and it has never had anything to do with the Green Party's green tax exchange.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-169	Mr President, I would like to Ulf Kristersson is trying to show that it is the Left Party's economic policy that will govern this country. I wish it were. V isst, we have influence, and I think that's good. But I understand that it bothers a right heart quite a lot when single mothers get better, when long-term ills have received higher compensation and when parents can pick up medicines for their children without worrying about whether the wallet should be enough – when the welfare has received 10 billion more. But if the Left Party had ruled, Ulf Kristersson would have paid far more taxes than today. By then, he and everyone else with a high income, a lot of capital and a lot of wealth would have contributed considerably more than they are receiving today. We think that the tax system should be redistributive. V isst, one can also say that part of the Left Party's economic policy seems to mean that we always have to clean up after the bourgeoisie has ruled. We have done so this time too. Mr President, I would like to Summer's here. It is longed for and full of expectation. Lovely days await, community and time together, perhaps a trip, excursions, experiences– who knows? But many people also worry about the summer. How's the money going to be enough? How will they be given the opportunity to allow children to attend the football school, to afford an excursion, and to afford rent and food? Traveling away remains a dream. As a result, the lump you join in your stomach grows larger and bigger. I know that, because I've been there. While many go with the lump in their stomachs and turn every penny around, others can think about whether to invest in a Porsche, a pool or a long vacation abroad, or maybe all of it. This is what class society looks like here in Sweden. We can follow the class society on a trip through the country or via the subway network here in Stockholm. Travel from Danderyd to Vårby, which distinguishes four years in life expectancy. The richest spend an enormous amount of time planning how to escape taxes, all to give less to the common, while others are forced to lie awake at night and plan to try to get the money enough for both rent and food. The level of education and socio-economic conditions affect people's lives and even how long we live our lives. Claw society is alive and well. Politics can do something about this; things can be changed. For the right, it is obvious that gaps should grow and class society should be strengthened. Liberals say it openly, and their economic policies clearly reflect it. The Moderates usually try to make it sound different, but in practice their policy is a policy that benefits people on Lidingö, in Djursholm and on Östermalm. They are feverishly hunted for the poorest. The Swedish democrats compete with their economic policies with the bourgeois to lower taxes most for those who earn the best, with great savings on welfare. With the Swedish Democrats' tax policy Jimmie Åkesson and Anna Kinberg Batra receive 46,000 SEK in tax reduction, while the sick, single mother and the unemployed industrial worker pay the most in tax on equal income and receive no tax reductions at all – the tax gap is proposed to grow instead. Those who have the least sheep, and those who have the best, of course, should have it even better. The right-wing distribution policy separates the country, increases people's insecurity and thereby restricts their freedom. Instead, we are trying to move in a different direction. In budget negotiations with the government we have achieved a lot of good reforms: increased maintenance support, increased compensation for long-term ills, 10 welfare billions for health care, school and care, free medicines for children and free mammography visits so that no woman will miss the cancer bundles because she could not afford to make that visit. Summer holiday activities will be free of charge for children so that all children can have fun during the summer holidays. Post-reform reform is being carried out to strengthen well-being and improve economic vulnerability. But when it comes to the economic divides, which we so much want to overcome also through the tax system, most of them remain undisputed since the reign of the bourgeoisie. The interest rebates should continue as now, i.e. benefit the richest, as well as RUT, for example. The capital tax is the same, and almost the entire job tax deductions remain intact. This is what has greatly contributed to the growing gaps in society, as well as the abolition of property tax and the abolition of wealth tax. High-paid men are the main beneficiaries of this tax policy. Sweden is today the EU's 15 core countries with the least redistributive tax system. But the bourgeoisie, after all, is not satisfied. As long as someone with a thick wallet is in danger of paying a penny more in taxes to health care or school, they are snatching out and are even prepared to create chaos through a desperate move with clear inspiration from the Swedish Democrats. But how united are they really? The special opinion states that they are prepared to act through, for example, a motion of censure. So they do not agree on what they agree on. But the Moderates turned to the Liberals and the Center. The Center doesn't want to convict the Minister of Finance, and the KD does what the Moderates want. The Liberals had to stand alone at the press conference, and today we can read how Ebba Busch Thor barks out Annie Lööf in Dagens Nyheter. But what caused the bourgeois to react? Is it that so many people cannot afford rent and food, that unemployment is still high, that the housing shortage is alarming, or that single parents still have financial difficulties? No, of course not. It is that those who earn 38 000 kroner a month will pay almost as much as 2 kroner more in tax per month. How are they gonna do that? And those who fly will be there to pay for what they release. This seems to disturb the so-called Green Party Center something tremendous. The so-called 3:12 rules are to be amended so that you cannot convert income to the same extent as before, and that affects the richest percentage most. But apparently this is what makes the bourgeoisie furious, and also the Swedish Democrats. Otherwise, it is perhaps only about the fact that the most important thing for the Swedish Democrats as usual is to create chaos. Mr President, I would like to This budget also proposes good reforms. This year, the Left Party has received investments in maternity care, vulnerable children and young people, young people's mental health and money for the individual programmes at upper secondary school. Otherwise, there are other good investments in vulnerable schools, on police officers and on climate change. The defense is also receiving increased funding. For the Left Party, it has been important to ensure that women who are pregnant should know that maternity care has the resources they need. Now new steps are being taken on the way there. Another half a billion is added to the 400 million we have previously received. The greatest experience in one's life, when the prodigy will come, should not have to be a concern about whether the maternity care should have room or whether the staff should have time. We talk about school a lot. Too many young people today leave comprehensive school without eligibility for the national programme of upper secondary school. This, like the troubled world situation, has meant that the introduction programmes, which are five in number, have grown sharply. Language introduction during the first year is now upper secondary school's largest programme. With the investment of 150 million that we have received, the conditions for meeting the individual student's needs and prerequisites are improved. Students who are at risk of not meeting the knowledge requirements will have better opportunities for additional adaptations or special support. The school simply gets better conditions for its compensatory mission. The work of social services with children and young people who suffer or are at risk of harm is strengthened. When children or young people are at risk of harm, we must do everything we can to ensure that their rights are strengthened, that their living conditions are improved and that they know that society is there for them. The employees of the social services must be given the conditions they need to be the professionals and the committed socionomists they want to be and are. Children's and youth psychiatry's resources are also strengthened, as the number of children and young people in need of help and support is numerous. In total, there will be a quarter of a billion in addition to child and youth psychiatry and Social Services this year. The Spring Economic Bill makes it clear that welfare needs more resources and that the number of employees needs to be increased. In welfare, it is the staff that is the tool for quality. It is the teacher who meets the child. It is the assistant nurse who takes care of and supports the old woman who is no longer able to dress herself or fix her own food. It is the nurse who provides care and care at the health centre or hospital. They are the ones who carry the welfare on their shoulders, and they are the ones who toil and pull an often too large load. Welfare simply needs more resources, and the women who work there should not have to pay with worn-out bodies and impaired health, but we will pay together through the tax bill, we who can afford it. This is why, among other things, the Left Party has pushed for more people to pay government tax and for the count of the stratum to be lower than it was. It is quite reasonable that people who have had huge tax cuts under the bourgeoisie should now be able to contribute a little more. And that's not a lot of crowns it's all about. For a person who earns 56 000, it is about SEK 200 more a month, and this in turn can finance, for example, an investment in better working conditions and the working environment for health care workers, which leads to a better quality for the patient. Mr President, I would like to While some people want to create chaos to benefit those who are already in the best position, we are trying to work on equalising income differentials, improving welfare, pushing down unemployment and taking responsibility for the climate. Summer should be longed for and not give a lump in the stomach. Therefore, there is also a need for a much more levelling-up of economic policies. I support the Spring Bill and the Spring Budget for Change.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-193	Mr President, I would like to Let me begin by asking for approval, on the one hand, of the Liberals' reservation 4, and, on the other, of the committee's proposals on the other. I would like to talk about something that is very little talked about in Swedish politics, namely the future. We have a political debate that often goes as far as its nose goes. We have a very short-sighted political debate in this country. I think this is dangerous, because we are missing opportunities. Today there are more opportunities than ever before for us as a country and for individual Swedes. We have a whole world full of knowledge and ideas just a few clicks away. Despite these enormous opportunities, twice as many Swedes today are negative to the future than they are in favour of the future. I think this is dangerous too, because then you miss the opportunity. If you don't see the possibilities or don't take advantage of them because you look so negatively at the future – you close inwards instead of opening up and taking advantage of the opportunities – you miss them. Human development has always consisted of our becoming better and better at spreading ideas and knowledge – from creating a language, a writing language and the art of printing to today's information technology, which allows us to easily spread information to billions of people. It is constantly added to millions of people. Today, over 31⁄2 billion people worldwide have access to the network. When it becomes easier to spread ideas, the development is faster and faster. Ray Kurzweil says of the first 100 years of the 21st century that they will mean not 100 years of development but the equivalent of 20,000 years of development. This opens up huge opportunities for us. For example, it gives us the opportunity to get computers and artificial intelligence to help us cure cancer. To understand how this development has been done, we can jump a few years back in time, to 1997, when a computer for the first time beat a world champion in chess. A few years earlier, Garri Kasparov, the world champion who lost, had played against 32 computers at the same time and won. But a few years later, he lost to a single computer. Today a chess software in my smartphone can crush Garri Kasparov or the current world chess champion. A smartphone today could guide 120 million Moon Landers at the same time. The pace of development is so enormous that we find it difficult to absorb. This places enormous demands on politics. What does this have to do with cancer care? Well, the company that developed the computer that beat the world chess champion has gradually moved on to learning all medical research. A Japanese woman had a very unusual form of cancer. Her doctor took care of making the right diagnosis. In the end, artificial intelligence was used and all the data was fed in. In seconds, the computer can scan a huge amount of research articles and medical results, and the right diagnosis pops forward so that you can save her life. But in Swedish health care we are still struggling with the fax machines. We have faxes. In some county councils I even think you have smoke signals – I have not been confirmed. But we have faxes. That responsibility falls heavily on us. It's the politicians who run the county councils. Fighting faxes is our fault. We should quickly get the faxes out and get artificial intelligence that can help make diagnoses and save lives. We'll miss that kind of opportunity if we just see as far as our noses go. Another area where we see huge opportunities in terms of environmental benefits but also in terms of saving lives in the short term is self-driving cars. They drive today in many situations much safer than people. Within a few years, they will be much more secure than man - controlled cars. The Swedish Transport Agency sees a sharp reduction in the number of road deaths as a result of this. We should push this development forward. We should ensure that we gather around making this possible as quickly as possible here in Sweden and amend the laws and regulations that need to be amended. A little is done, but it's too slow. Self-driving cars could also become a potential freedom revolution for people with various forms of disabilities. You won't have to have good eyesight or be able to steer with a steering wheel and so on to be able to drive around in a car yourself. There are huge possibilities. We see that robots, computers, and others are constantly taking over some of the more tiresome and tedious tasks that people are doing today. This is basically a very positive development, but many are afraid that the robots will take our jobs. They will not do that, or rather: they will take some jobs – it is exactly the same type of development of the economy and society that has taken place since the industrial revolution. But they will be replaced by new jobs. It is very easy to see the jobs that disappear. It is difficult to visualize the new jobs that come into being. Who thought 20 years ago that programmers would be the largest professional group in Stockholm and one of the largest in Sweden? It is not possible to predict exactly what jobs will be created. However, we can create the conditions for these jobs to develop. Mr President, I would like to I would say today that ideas are the new oil. It is the new natural resource and the most valuable natural resource. A group of people with ideas is the new oil source. I think it is very important that we now think about how we shape our tax system and society on that very basis. The last major tax reform in Sweden was in 1991. At that time, Mr President, I was a 13-year-old little pie-maker who taught me about something called mixed economy. It was at that time. That same year, 1991, we got the World Wide Web, or some computer nerds at the Cern got the World Wide Web. It took another three years before Netscape Navigator broke through as the first browser, so that the internet could start spreading. In 1991 we had the last major tax reform in Sweden. I think it is high time we had a new tax reform with the new starting point that the whole world is being linked up and connected. That is what we are sketching out in our budget, among other things. I believe that in such a tax reform it is very important that we get away from the fact that Sweden is the country in the world that taxes ideas and knowledge most of all. We have the highest marginal taxes. It pays the least here to work really hard and to fight, at least in the Western world anyway. When it comes to a new tax reform, we need to make use of this new oil. An oil well – one could be lucky to find one somewhere a few decades ago – cannot move anywhere. But a group of people who have ideas can move – and those people move. They choose not to move here if we tax the ideas to death and fight that kind of development. Of course, it is much more than just taxes that affect this. You need to have a good and functioning safety net. We need a generally good business environment. We need a culture that encourages this type of entrepreneurs and ideas. We need world-class research. But all of this is connected. The tax system is an essential part of this. Then we need to reshape it on the basis that we are now living in the 21st century. If we had the tax reform of the century in 1991, I think it is now time for the millennium tax reform – a broad deal where the focus is on making it very profitable to train and to work hard. It is to Sweden that you should come – and that is where you should live – if you have ideas that you want to realize. I hope that at least part of the political debate will be about this during the election year. We're going to solve all the problems that lie right in front of our noses, too. We can't forget them. But there is far too little focus on the long-term visions of Swedish politics. I am perhaps naive, Mr President, when I hope and believe that the political debate will be partly about this. But at least I am an optimist, and I am a very big optimist when it comes to Sweden's future.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-213	Mr President, I would like to Liberals are a party that saves a great deal on welfare and economically vulnerable. In the autumn's budget you saved 5 billion on sick people, 6 billion on unemployed people, 1⁄2 billion on health care and 6 billion on municipalities and county councils. I am concerned now that welfare does not have enough resources, while the Liberals seem to be more concerned that welfare has too much resources and perhaps also that people pay too little in rent and have too high wages. But I also notice that the Liberals have a great concern that those with the highest income will have to pay a little more tax. You seem to share that concern with the other bourgeois parties. You seem to be desperate about this. You have produced a special opinion in committee in which you call on the government not to present the three tax proposals, which would contribute to more resources for well-being. This particular statement can well be seen as a feather in the hat of the Liberals, because it was the Liberals' line that won in the bourgeoisie. Perhaps a motion of censure should be made against some minister at some point in the future. We'll see what you agree on. But the fact that there's a feather in the hat for the Liberals, I think we can agree on that. I wonder: are you so desperate that it is worth destroying the economic framework? Is it worth weakening the budget in the way you are now proposing, when it is clear that there are great breaks in welfare? Nurses stress out so they get sick. Nurses do not have time for the elderly in the nursing home or in the home service. And even though the size of preschool groups is decreasing, they are far too large.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-217	Mr President, I would like to It feels like the question somehow had a certain angle. It was not a completely open question, but it had a certain angle. I don't share that angle. There are three tax increases that the government has announced and wants to take forward. You in the Left Party want to go forward with a huge amount – many more – of tax increases. Everything that moves should be taxed. We want to stop those tax increases. It's about travelling in Sweden. It is about making it pay to educate yourself, be diligent and work hard in this country and that it will be possible to create new jobs, not least in the smaller companies. We want to ensure that the tax increases that make job creation more difficult are stopped. We do not want it to be more difficult to create jobs and that it should be more expensive for small businesses to do so. We want it to be more profitable for them to create jobs. That is how we create resources for welfare and for other things that we need in society. We are not looking for a government crisis. We're not looking for chaos. It is entirely up to the government to create such a thing. We are now saying what a parliamentary majority thinks on this issue. Let's say it very clearly. It is up to the government to take this on board. Last week, I reminded a number of journalists that the Riksdag is Sweden's highest decision-making assembly, and it may be worth recalling even in the Riksdag that the government has to deal with the majorities that exist in the Riksdag and stop these tax increases.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-223	Mr President, I would like to The Left Party wants to tax them with a lot of capital and wealth more than is being done today. I am clear about this, and we are doing so in order to reduce economic disparities and ensure that single mothers are better off, as well as that welfare is given more resources. If we are going to return to the special opinion, I can say that it was a very proud Mathias Sundin who stood in the Committee on Finance and waved that paper in front of the journalists. But then Jan Björklund stood all alone at the press conference, and in the meantime, when you put the special opinion in the Finance Committee, the Centre Leader tweeted that the Minister of Finance should not be convicted. And today we can read in Dagens Nyheter how Christian Democrats' party leaders bark at the Party leader of the Center Party and say that she is lying. It seems that you are very, very disagreeable, and this desperate move may be something that you regret today. There are other ways to do this. A common budgetary option can be put forward. That's what you usually do, and we vote on it. What we are going to do in this House this autumn is, of course, to vote for different budget options. Then, together with the other bourgeois parties, you can present a common budget. The Swedish democrats will surely vote for it, because they want to create chaos. However, you seem to have drawn a great deal of inspiration from their chaos theory and their chaotic games. Why do you not put forward a common budget option, and so we vote on it? But you do not want that, because you cannot come up with a common budget option. Instead, you should use a motion of censure against a minister who does what a minister is supposed to do, namely implement the politics of his party. What you are doing is destroying the whole economic framework because you are desperate and want to appear to be capable of action. But all you seem to do is run in completely different directions in your desperation, and you think it's worth sacrificing an economic framework for that. I'm very perplexed about this.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-229	Mr President, I would like to If we start with taxation, it is not the case that the Left Party simply wants to tax them with the highest income. You want to tax everyone who has a higher income. Anyone who has an income that is not a contribution, you want to tax more, and most of all you want to tax them with the highest income so that they come down to the same level as those you want to tax almost as much. Those who have really low wages, you want to tax considerably higher than we want. We in the Alliance have no problem at all in negotiating a common budget. We have demonstrated this in several alliance governments and even after the elections. Negotiating a budget together in the Alliance is not difficult. We have a great deal of common ground between the four bourgeois parties. Our views differ as to what this would achieve at this time. We from the Liberals are presenting our budget now, and it is perfectly possible for everyone to vote for it, although it is not so likely that it will happen. However, we from the Liberals do not want to put ourselves in the situation that the government is now in with the Left Party – a difficult and backward party that wants to raise taxes for everyone on whom it is dependent. The Swedish Democrats represent a largely different society from the liberal society that I am here in Parliament to try to achieve and which is why I am running for politics. There is no doubt that there is agreement on some particular issue. We can do that with the Left Party sometimes, and it can be done with other parties too. However, if we put ourselves in a situation with a common budget, we will be dependent on negotiating with the Swedish Democrats. They will then get things through there, and they will want to take the country in a direction that we do not want. It is therefore no use for us to enter into cooperation with them, no more than with you.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-234	Mr President, I would like to I would like to begin by calling for the approval of the Christian Democrats' reservation 5 in FiU20, paragraph 1. I do this because our society and our economy need trust and security to develop. This trust and security does not arise in a vacuum or by itself but is built strong in families and civil society, contexts where we meet each other and build bridges, where we are seen and loved, where we learn to see others and see each other. The development of more trust and security is also being built in companies, among entrepreneurs who see something that is not there in society, who find it worthwhile to start or develop a business to do something about a problem you see – an innovation, a service, a product that provides jobs, development, confidence in the future and tax revenue. If a society's government does not understand what builds society t and the economy strong, it is serious. Then you can start controlling and setting with the families. Then you can get associations that make fantastic efforts to lose the appetite. That way you can reduce the conditions so that fewer entrepreneurs want to hire, dare to invest and invest. You can do it under different names. You can do it under terms such as 3:12, flight, breakpoint, marginal tax, special payroll tax for the elderly and so on. In this area, there is some capacity for innovation in the government, but this capacity for innovation is harmful to Sweden's capacity for innovation and to Sweden's competitiveness. Mr President, I would like to Trust and security also require citizens to be confident that the public is doing their part, that the government is fully committed to the problems and challenges of the labour market, that the challenges of health care, care for the elderly and the school are addressed. It requires the government to see those in the shadow of the economic sun. Is that so? The division in the labour market and the gaps it creates are the greatest challenge for our economy, perhaps our society. Where is the government's response when large groups do not get the chance to show what they are capable of, when people do not get a chance to become part of the community and feel the pride it means to support themselves, when hundreds of thousands are not allowed to work 100% of their ability? In addition to a little more training measures, it is the fate of the government. It's out in the reform factory. There have been a few hundred trainee jobs, a number of emergency stations, some extra services. However, it is insufficient in terms of reforms to meet the needs of the labour market. Unfortunately, this inaction applies in areas by area. We now need substantial reforms. We need to remove the gap between those who have a job and those who are now increasingly away from a job. We need introductory positions so that the thresholds are lowered. We need lower taxes for groups that are far from the labour market so that more jobs can emerge. We need to simplify labour market support so that companies can use it and employ it. We need a substantial expansion of vocational training. On this point, the government does some things, but more can be done. Health care is another area of reform. The lack of care on time is acute. Care queues are growing, not least in red-green-controlled county councils. One reason for this is that the government abolished a reform that actually worked, which shortened the care queues, i.e. queue billions. When the queue billions of Christian Democrats and Alliance government existed in 2014, 18 county councils managed to give more than 70 percent of patients a first visit to planned specialised care within 60 days. There were 14 county councils that passed the 60-day limit for surgery. Now eight county councils pass the first visit and only five pass the limit for surgery. There's a dramatic difference. It therefore abolished the reform aimed at keeping the focus on accessibility and care queues and which proved to be a major success. This must be reintroduced. We Christian Democrats also want to invest 3 billion in a primary care effort to increase the opening hours of our health centres and increase access to primary care so that we can relieve our emergency departments. Those now affected are often elderly and fragile people who sit for a very long time in our emergency rooms, hour after hour. This is not a reasonable order. It has become free of charge for the elderly to go to health care, but it is a bad health policy to do it free of charge to sit in ever longer queues around our country. It affects the elderly and the fragile most. It also needs to be put in place an investigation aimed at the state taking overall responsibility for the advanced hospital care. It is not a reasonable order for 21 different county councils to cope with the full range of healthcare capabilities, but we need to collect them much better today. Then we think it's good if the state takes responsibility for the advanced hospital care. It is an important recipe to remove the inequality that exists in healthcare where it actually plays a role in your chances of surviving which county council you live in if you suffer from certain diseases. This is an unreasonable development which we must change. We Christian Democrats are also proposing strong improvements for the country's pensioners. We want to close completely the tax gap between workers and pensioners in terms of pay and pension tax. We want to increase the housing supplement for all pensioners who receive this supplement by 500 SEK for single and 300 SEK for cohabiting. And, of course, we want to remove perhaps the most structurally damaging reform of this government, namely the imposition of a special wage tax on older workers. We also want to introduce a retirement home guarantee so that we run out of the headlines that people don't get the chance to come to a retirement home are they want and feel solitude and insecurity. Over a certain age, you should get a retirement home when you want to. We need to focus on security issues and more police. We want to see increased purchases of reinforcement weapons so that we can better cope with terrorist attacks. It will be possible for the police to practice in more places so that they can better resist possible terrorist attacks. We also believe that we need to consider a shorter police training course for a number of police officers so that the municipalities can fund police officers instead of guardians. We think it would be a good reform to consider. One challenge in Sweden is increased mental illness among young people. I think it is time to discuss the causes widely. It is also time to push for a stronger safety net around our children. Then the school is important, and the parents and the family are absolutely central. Association life is also important to manage to create safety nets around our children and young people. We are proposing a number of reforms in our motion on this particular issue. We propose that children's and young people's health services be brought together. The Landstingen shall be responsible for the health of the children. Today, many school leaders do not know that they have this responsibility. It's not a good order. We need to strengthen child and youth psychology so that there will be shorter waiting times. We need to ensure that every school has an evidence-based anti-bullying program that works. We need to offer parental support, even when families have teenage children. The questions and concerns that you have in your parenting role should be well answered so that you can give your teens the very best support so that they do not get into trouble. We also need to strengthen the opportunities for non-profit associations to pay less fees to those leaders who make fantastic contributions around Sweden for our children and young people. We need to become a little more innovative in how we work preventively. Make a government effort to develop more projects with social outcome contracts! Social entrepreneurs can create programmes where municipalities pay only if the programmes are successful. Early investment in children's and young people's lives prevents problems later on. These were some of the reforms we are proposing to meet the major challenges facing Sweden. Vote for our politics! Then it'll be better.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-260	Mr President, I would like to When the government presented the spring bill, we were able to show that the Swedish economy is in a completely new situation. By means of a responsible economic policy, large deficits left by the bourgeois government have now turned into surpluses. Government finances will be further strengthened in the future, which, together with expected good GDP growth, will help to reduce the general government debt ratio at a rapid pace. The strength of the economy we can now use to address the challenges that Sweden still faces. Sweden should be a country in work and cohesion. The Swedish model must be signed. More people are coming to work. Wealth of high quality should be accessible to everyone across the country, and redistribution should take place through our security systems. Mr President, I would like to Sweden should be a safe country. The government will continue to fight crime and terrorism. The punishment of illegal possession of weapons, violence and crime has been tightened, and we ensure that police resources are strengthened. As hard as we are on the crimes, we should also be against the causes of the crimes. This means increasing long-term security by combating economic and social gaps. Unemployment must be pushed back. Inequality is greatest between those who have and those who do not have work. We know that paid work with a living wage gives economic independence, power and the ability to shape one's own life, to decide for oneself. This requires training efforts through the Government's expanded knowledge boost. Investment in roads and railways is needed so that the business community has a functioning transport system and so that we can spend time on work. Investment in housing is needed and we need to switch to climate and environmental investments. The investments provide both jobs and development throughout the country, and they create long-term growing resources. They strengthen Sweden's competitiveness. They are the foundation of the construction of society, and now we also see results. Today, 200 000 more people go to work every morning than when the government took office. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. Sweden beats the EU's employment record, and the contribution rate is the lowest since the 1990s crisis. Even among foreign-born people, employment has risen, but it still takes far too long for many newcomers to start working. Here we have to roll up our sleeves and take a strong hold. Therefore, the government will continue to invest in effective language training, on fast track, on better matching and validation. Of course, duty is also right. The demands on the individual should be clear, and society's efforts should be directed towards meeting each individual's situation. The person receiving the start-up allowance must now look for a job. Contributions are no longer unconditional. That's how strong welfare systems will be built. However, the insurance system should also be designed to increase gender equality. No one should have to get caught up in homework. That is why we have abolished the custody allowance and re-introduced parental insurance so that newly arrived women can enter the labour market more quickly. Of course, they will also be involved in building our country strong for the future. At the same time, there are currently 100,000 job vacancies. Therefore, we will invest in knowledge and education to create more bridges to the labour market, to jobs with collective wage agreements. Mr President, I would like to High-quality welfare shall be available. In the 2017 budget, the 10 welfare billions were one of the historically largest investments ever made in the local government sector. In total, the government has invested nearly 30 billion in school, elderly care and health care. It is investments that have a strong redistributive power. Regardless of your ability to pay, you should receive a good education, and regardless of your salary, you should receive care as needed. Learning outcomes in school should continue to rise. The quality of care for the elderly should be increased. Health care should be available when you need it, whether you live in Gothenburg, Gagnef or Gällivare. The results of the welfare billions are now also visible in municipalities and county councils. The teachers in Botkyrka have received more in the pay envelope. In Hyltebruk, a new preschool department has opened, and in Nynäshamn, night management in elderly care has increased and home care staff has been relieved with a new security team. So has security and equality increased around Sweden. In our amending budget, we presented initiatives on, among other things, maternity care, on the most vulnerable schools and on more resources for the strained children and youth psychiatry. The government parties, together with the Left Party, have prioritised welfare activities where the needs are greatest, activities that during eight bourgeois years of government had to stand back. We must also take responsibility for the challenges of demographic change. We are happily living longer and more and more children are being born in Sweden. As a result, the need for teachers, nurseries and nurses is increasing and we need to build more preschools, schools and nursing homes. To meet the growing needs, the government will continue to develop the Swedish model and conduct an economic policy that allows for both strengthening welfare and building shelters for the future. It is to take responsibility for Sweden. In an analysis, the Institute has shown that spending on welfare and public investment is the most effective way to boost economic growth and create new jobs. According to the Konjunkturinstitutet, the worst effect is general tax reductions. This is how the major dividing line in Swedish politics can be described: Investment in welfare and community-building that creates higher growth or unfunded tax cuts that do not have that effect but, on the other hand, increases the gaps. The Ministry of Finance's calculations show that fiscal policy has made growth half a percent higher per year in 2015–2017. This is the result, and the government's economic policy has taken Sweden through tough times. We know that Sweden is built strongly through fair distribution of growth. We know that equality and development are not each other's opposites, and we know that investments in the construction of society make Sweden stronger for the future. Against the government's economic policy, the Riksdag's five right-wing parties, five parties that want to back down to an unfunded tax sink policy for the richest, lower climate ambitions and allow profit hunting in welfare to continue. The joint tax reductions of the bourgeois parties amount to SEK 70 billion. The Swedish Democrats want to reduce taxes by SEK 50 billion and give those who have 100 000 a month a tax cut of 46 000 SEK a year. This is how the Swedish Democrats want to benefit the high-paid in Sweden. Reducing taxes on those with the highest income does not mean that we can hire more school counselors, more police officers, more soldiers or more nurses. That policy has been tested. We know that this will create deficits in public finances and allow the gaps to increase. This is not how we equip Sweden for the future. Here the dividing line in Swedish politics is clear. But the dividing line doesn't just go there anymore. It is no longer just about the substance of economic policy, but also about its forms. On 15 June, last Thursday, is a date that will go to the Swedish economic-political history. It was when the alliance parties together with the Swedish Democrats took a first step on the sloping plane that risks bringing us back to the morass we remember from the 1990s. That is when the idea of a coherent budgetary process was abandoned. In this way, the Moderates' candidate for finance also gave up the claim to stand for a responsible economic policy. It's distressing to watch. Here we now have a new dividing line that has been drawn up. Should we be in order in the budgetary process and sound public finances with the Social Democrats, the Green Party and the Left Party? Or should we stand for torn-down state finances through the hopeful expenditure- and tax-sink majority in parliament with the Moderates, Christian Democrats, the Center Party, Liberals and the Swedish Democrats? The distinction is no longer just about tax cuts for high-income earners against investments in welfare construction, but also about orderly and sound state finances with the government or budget chaos and running deficits with the opposition. Here we have important consumer information for the Swedish people.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-284	Mr President, I would like to Widar Andersson is a man on Folkbladet who I think both I and the Minister for Finance know. It's an honest left intellectual that used to fight with blank weapons in this chamber and now fight with shiny keys or pencils in its columns. Widar Andersson suggested the other day that Sweden should establish the equivalent of our time and integration task to the Lindbeck Commission, i.e. do as in the 1990s: see the major problems, identify them in serious analysis, try to implement thought-out proposals in as broad a consensus as possible and do so with the grant that it is possible to make this better. I am quite sure that we would land in different positions on exactly what solutions would be good. It's all part of politics. But I think the basic idea – to see the problems, identify them, make a serious analysis of what can be achieved and then try to implement the measures – is a good idea. However, it requires a reasonable agreement on what the problems are and how big they are. I wonder whether the Government and the Minister for Finance have understood the extent of what we are facing. We asked the Swedish Parliament's investigation service to count about how many people today do not enter the labour market who have come to Sweden and need easier jobs to gain a foothold. Approximately 150 000 people were answered. The Prime Minister is talking about maybe 30,000 people. The government's proposal for 32 000 trainee jobs suggests that the Prime Minister has been listened to. The result 380 suggests that it doesn't work. My simple question is: does the Minister of Finance think that we are talking about a challenge of hundreds of thousands of people or a few hundreds of people?
i-d30c39520a3561c7-291	Mr President, I would like to This is an important issue raised by Ulf Kristersson. It is extremely important that people who come to Sweden have the opportunity to enter the labour market. Therefore, from day one, the government has put away the policy that was taken during Ulf Kristersson's time in government to try instead to increase people's chances of entering the labour market. What we saw as results after eight years of alliance was that the divides and exclusion increased. It is not I who say it, but the Moderates themselves have stood with maps and showed how the number of alienation areas increased during the eight years they themselves sat in government power. That is why a different policy is needed from that advocated by Ulf Kristersson. It was, of course, the great policy of the eight years in which the Moderates were in government, namely job tax deductions one, two, three, four and five, which created the great alienation that we see today. The Moderates now want to solve this with a sixth job tax deduction. That, of course, will not work. A different policy is needed here, and that is precisely the policy that the government stands for. We want to ensure that people have the opportunity to enter the labour market. We must see that those who have come to Sweden look different and therefore need different efforts. If you are young, you should go to school, sit on the school bench and get the important upper secondary school education, which is a watershed to get into the Swedish labour market. If you have professional experience or education with you in your luggage, you should quickly be able to get additional education and good Swedish education so that you can get into the labour market. There, the fast track is an important way forward. If you are older, this could be a subsidised employment, for example an extra service in welfare, where the government allocates additional resources for municipalities to want to do this. Of course, all people who have come to Sweden will have the opportunity to enter the labour market. These are, of course, all the people who are currently on the start-up mission or are still waiting for information on asylum.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-299	Mr President, I would like to Maybe I put the question too complicated. What I wanted to say was this: what does the Minister of Finance think about the size of the challenge of integration? Are we talking about a few hundred thousand people who have to come in, or are we talking about 380 trainees?
i-d30c39520a3561c7-300	Mr President, I would like to My answer, of course, is that all people who have been granted a residence permit will need support to enter the labour market. But not all people should have simple jobs with low wages. We are not going to break the Swedish model. People who come to Sweden will adapt to the Swedish labour market. We should not adapt our tasks and salaries to the levels that apply in the countries from which people come. One thing is clear: what will solve these people's opportunities to enter the labour market is not the moderate standard solution, namely reduced taxes for those who earn the most. It is the great proposal that the Moderates represent – a sixth job tax deduction that provides a greater tax cut for me and Ulf Kristersson but not for a newly arrived woman from Afghanistan or Somalia. That is, of course, the wrong way to go. One thing is very clear: in order for them to enter the labour market, we need sound public finances so that we can pay for the necessary training. We need to keep order in the budgetary process and order and order in public finances. The budgetary policy of the Moderates now, which has given up the idea of taking responsibility for the budgetary process, would not benefit employment for anyone in this country – new arrivals or born in Sweden. That thing's clear.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-304	Mr President, I would like to I want to talk about what Emil Källström previously appointed as Swedish politicians' favorite company: Spotify. One can think about why there is such a focus on Spotify. I believe that this is partly about the fact that it is the most prominent, visible company in the new economy, and also about the fact that it is Europe's most successful start-up. Spotify has 140 million subscribers around the world, and they have only just begun. We know nothing about the future of Spotify, but through this company we have the opportunity to establish a new Swedish big company – a new Ericsson, Asea or Volvo. Spotify itself is important, but it is also a symbol of the entire Swedish start-up sector, which has many successful and fast growing companies. What we are seeing with Spotify now and perhaps contributing to the focus being put there is that Europe's most successful startup is becoming mainly in the United States. That's where people are hired. It has been said that you really want to grow here in Stockholm, but it is in the United States that you hire over 1,000 people. There are several reasons for this. There is a lack of housing and no programming at school, but it also points to marginal taxes and, above all, a special tax on employee stock options, i.e. the possibility of making employees a partner. There is a proposal from an investigation, but nothing has happened since then. Why is nothing happening in this area, Magdalena Andersson?
i-d30c39520a3561c7-310	Mr President, I would like to As far as employee stock options are concerned, there is an investigation proposal, and we in the government have been clear that we will proceed with this proposal. There is a clear political direction from the government. It is of course good that we have good conditions to run companies and that we should have a competitive business climate in Sweden. We have this by dealing with a number of things that were neglected when the alliance government handed over power. It is about that it is difficult for companies, not least Spotify, to find the right skills in the workforce. The Alliance government did not use the crisis years sufficiently to enable people to train and equip themselves to take the new jobs as they grow. That is why we had a shortage of labour so early in the economic upturn. There would have been a great deal more investment in further training during the crisis years. Another thing we need to invest further in is the neglected maintenance of roads and railways. There the government has made important investments to enable companies to get the goods to and from the factories. Then there is housing, which has been lagging behind for too many years. We need to make sure that it increases, and so do now, with a great deal of force. The overall policy pursued by the government is to strengthen the conditions for companies to be able to invest in Sweden and to do so in a way that is responsible for public finances. This has forced us to finance some of our investments with tax increases. If you look at Sweden's overall policy, we have risen in the competitiveness league, at least according to external assessors such as the World Economic Forum. The government's overall policy has thus strengthened Sweden's competitiveness.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-317	Mr President, I would like to Magdalena Andersson's main focus is backwards. What she talks about most of all is the alliance years and of course how bad it was then. My modesty forbids me to mention that it was during those years that Spotify and the start-up revolution took off. For example, if we look forward instead of backwards, this budget would have been an excellent opportunity to announce changes in employee stock options, but this has not come. You've had plenty of time to do it. It would be excellent and nice if it could come in the autumn budget. Is it coming? The drafting of the proposal is absolutely crucial. For example, Spotify, which has been on the table so far, is not included and is not affected by the proposal, but is concerned with small businesses that are in an early stage of development. It's very important for them too – most importantly for them – to be able to recruit people who have high-paid jobs in other companies. In order for them to dare to take the risk of going over to a startup, there must be a greater, possible reward by becoming partners. The more successful a startup becomes, and the faster its development goes, the faster they get out in terms of the possible changes to employee options. Then these companies grow abroad instead of in Sweden. We are missing a historic opportunity to establish a new Swedish big company here in Sweden. It can become a Swedish large company that is established mainly in the United States if the government does not act now when it comes to employee stock options but also in other areas. The employee stock options and marginal taxes are absolutely crucial for the companies to be able to recruit. It is not a question of whether they want to or not, but whether they can at all.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-322	Mr President, I would like to When it comes to employee options, it is basically about what opportunities should exist to start a business – they should be good. It is also about not creating big holes in the tax system. If too much opportunities are put forward to avoid paying income tax through employee stock options, large holes have actually been created in the system. Since I care about public finances and care that we have secure funding, not only for housing construction, which is important for Spotify, but also for a well-functioning school for all children, which is also important for Spotify, care must be taken when making such a proposal. We have been, and this distinguishes the government from the Liberals and the other opposition parties. It has clearly been shown in the last week. It is important for companies that we have order in the budgetary process and sound public finances. For all those who think it is important that we have secure funding for welfare and for the activities that are important for business, it is clear that one cannot vote for any of the opposition parties, but it is the Social Democrats, the Environment Party and the Left Party that remain. We are in order in the budgetary process and in public finances. Ruining public finances with hopeful majorities in the Riksdag in the way the Liberals want it is dangerous for Sweden and for the Swedish business community.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-326	Mr President, I would like to As a comment on the previous shift, one can say that we are probably in complete agreement across all party boundaries that if you want parties that in an orderly way raise taxes on everything that moves, you should definitely vote for Magdalena Andersson and her henchmen. My question is about the too many people – 352,856 according to the latest note from the Employment Service – who are enrolled as unemployed. It is the second month in a row that the figure rises, this at the top of a boom that has been going on for a long time, namely almost all of Magdalena Andersson's time as Minister of Finance. I am aware that there are other labour market indicators that point to a more positive picture. There is no question that the Swedish economy, both during the alliance years and recently, has performed well, not least thanks to our talented companies that create jobs and invest. I still have to ask you a question. The number of unemployed persons enrolled in the Employment Service is increasing at the peak of a boom. Is this what Magdalena Andersson meant when she spoke about Europe's lowest unemployment rate by 2020 and when there was talk of 35 000 trainee jobs and I do not know what different types of labour market policy measures would reduce unemployment? The number of unemployed registered at the Employment Service is now increasing. I must, of course, ask: was this what you meant by the European Union's lowest unemployment rate? That was not quite clear in the election propaganda, and it was not quite clear in the early budget debates. But here we are.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-330	Mr President, I would like to Since the government took office, after the Center Party had left the government power, 200 000 more people have a job to go to every morning. Unemployment is falling compared to when the Center Party was in government. Youth unemployment is the lowest in 13 years. And long-term unemployment is falling. The employment rate – the proportion of people in employment – is increasing significantly, and we now have the highest employment rate ever measured in the European Union. This does not make this government happy, but, of course, we will continue to work for more people to get to work. What is pleasingly happening, however, is that more and more people want to be part of the workforce. That is why more people are looking for jobs in the labour market. It is also something that the government thinks is extremely positive. Of course, it also affects the number of people who are then seen as unemployed in the statistics. But we want more people to enter the labour market. We think that's a good thing. It is clear that it is not only the government's labour market policy efforts that have had a bearing on the fact that unemployment has now decreased, but also the investments we have made to strengthen the Swedish business community, so that more companies can hire. Half of these 200 000 jobs have been created in the private sector. It is important that we have a good policy for the Swedish business community. But it is also important that we have order in public finances. I did not have the opportunity to take a line on Emil Källström, but I must now ask a question. I think there were many of us who raised our eyebrows a little when we opened Sweden's biggest morning newspaper this morning, where there are now hailing accusations of lies between the party leaders of the alliance parties. Is Annie Lööf or Ebba Busch Thor lying?
i-d30c39520a3561c7-337	Mr President, I would like to The question of which of two of the Alliance's party leaders would do was a very strange one. I find it difficult to relate to it. However, I note that not only Annie Lööf and Ebba Busch Thor, but four of the four party leaders of the Alliance, are in complete agreement that there must be a framework for how far a minority government can go when it comes to raising the tax on everything that moves, as I mentioned in my previous speech, without majority support. As far as this is concerned, they are both good enough, like Anna Kinberg Batra and Jan Björklund. I did not get a real answer to whether it was really part of the plan that the number of unemployed people enrolled in the Employment Service would increase now during a booming boom. I suspect the answer is: No, we had not planned for that at all. This is something we do not want to see. But I can fill in that it was something that could unfortunately be suspected would be the case when the government step by step, budget budget increases taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship and, not least, increases employers' contributions, reduces RUT deductions and narrows down the labour market pathways that need to be broadened. There is a need for lower taxes on, not least, the first job in order to get a first foot into the labour market. That is why we need a proper reform agenda. Magdalena Andersson's main strength as Minister of Finance is the timing when she entered the Ministry of Finance. Magdalena Andersson has had a number of good years when she has been able to manage and present budgets. But these good years will not last forever. What we now need is a policy that equips Sweden strongly and ensures that we come out as strong as possible when times get worse. This calls for new jobs in growing companies, new housing and someone who takes seriously Sweden's structural problems. Magdalena Andersson, Mr President, is not that person.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-342	Mr President, I would like to It was an elegant turn from Emil Källström. Of course, it was not a question of who is good enough but of who is lying. But maybe you two can clear up that thing between each other. But we who read the newspapers are, of course, pleased that this can also be clarified in the newspapers, so that we can find out what is going on with the alliance parties. You may have to call them the former alliance. We are following this with excitement. Emil Källström says we're lucky with the timing. It is strange that as soon as bourgeois governments break up state finances, it is bad timing, and as soon as the Social Democrats come back to government power and take care of the chaos that you have created, we are lucky to have the timing. Is it that you three times charm have had bad luck and that we three times charm have been lucky? Or is it perhaps the case that there is an ideological difference between whether you care that welfare has stable funding and makes sure to have the money in order and if you are a little less careful about it and just want to reduce tax one for those who earn the most? What the Center Party did last week was to take a big step from being the responsible party that it was in the 1990s, when it supported the budgetary adjustment and also ensured that the budget process was arranged, to now instead yielding to the other bourgeois parties and allowing hopeful majorities in the parliament to risk once again smashing public finances. But one thing is clear: regardless of this, we Social Democrats will always stand up and take responsibility when necessary. We have done so three times before, and we will always do so in the future – order and order.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-346	Mr President, I would like to The lack of care on time is acute. Care queues are growing, not least in red-green-controlled county councils. Why, Magdalena Andersson, was it so important to remove the most important tool to cut the queues, namely the queue billion?
i-d30c39520a3561c7-348	Mr President, I would like to There was a lot of criticism of the previous queue billions, and there was very broad support in the Riksdag for its removal. I do not know whether the Christian Democrats were against it. But there were many parties who saw problems with this queue billion. However, I fully share Jakob Forssmed's view that it is a major problem that it takes too long to receive care and that the care is not available enough. That is precisely why the government has announced that we intend to invest 3 billion more in health care in the autumn budget to ensure that we have good accessibility in healthcare across the country. Some of this money will be dedicated specifically to increasing accessibility, so that there will be better care for everyone. This, of course, requires priority. Then you cannot, as the alliance parties want, reduce the tax by 70 billion, and then you cannot, as the Swedish democrats want, reduce the tax by 50 billion. Together, this is a tax reduction of 120 billion. Clearly, it is a dangerous way to go if you care about ensuring good funding for health care. Of course, medical care is not benefited either by the mess that is currently taking place among the alliance parties with regard to the budgetary process. With the order that they have now created in the Riksdag, the state finances risk being torn apart by hopeful majorities in the Riksdag. One thing is certain: tearing apart the budgetary process and creating disorder in public finances will not increase access to healthcare.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-353	Mr President, I would like to We do not want to tear up any budgetary process. It has been very clear. Ulf Kristersson has answered questions about this several times. We gave a message that a minority government should also listen to a majority in Parliament and present a budget that does not require changes in the government. If you do not, the government cannot continue in its present form. It's not tearing up a budget process. Magdalena Andersson blames a parliamentary majority who wanted to remove the queue billions. Which parliamentary majority was it? It was you who wanted to remove the queue billions, and it was you who removed the queue billions – the most important tool for cutting the queues. Hans Karlsson, Head of the Care Department at SKL, says: In 2004 and 2005, we didn't talk about 30 – 60 days of queue, but sometimes 30 – 60 weeks. It was important with the queue billion that put the focus on it. ..................................................... Then there were certain things in the queue billions that could be done better – as in any reform. Then you turn on parameters and improve the reform; you do not abolish it. It continues with a reform that distributes money according to performance. You sent the signal to your own county councils: it is not so important with the queues. It doesn't matter that much. We'll take out the queue billions, and you'll get other money instead. That's bad health policy. It is a bad health policy to make it free for older people to sit in ever longer queues in the emergency room. You do it free to sit in ever longer queues waiting for the first visit or an operation in specialized care. That should be changed. There's a chance. The reform is there. Screw on the parameters that can be done a little better, but make sure to get back the tools that actually work for people to get care on time!
i-d30c39520a3561c7-359	Mr President, I would like to We will ensure that healthcare has the resources to ensure that we have good and accessible care throughout the country. We do this with this government's policy when we choose to invest 3 additional billion in health care already in the autumn budget, in addition to the 10 welfare billions we had in last autumn's budget. This government prioritises health care – unlike opposition parties, which choose to give priority to major tax cuts and to give the most to those who earn the most. Then there was the question of tearing up a budget process. Of course, it is very easy to find majorities in Parliament to increase expenditure or reduce income. However, it is more difficult to find majorities to take a concerted responsible approach to finding funding for the reforms you think sound nice. That is exactly why, until last Thursday – from the 1990s onwards – we agreed that we should have a unified budgetary process where plus and minus are set against each other in a single budget decision. This you have departed from, Jakob Forssmed. Now there are hopeful majorities, hopeful spending coalitions and hopeful tax-sink coalitions that risk tearing public finances apart in decisions taken in this House. That is what the opposition now stands for. Christian Democrats, Liberals, Center Party and Moderates – together with the Swedish Democrats, they are now waving hand in hand on the sloping plane that risks bringing us back to the 1990s crisis.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-362	Mr President, I would like to In addition to the economic policy guidelines, we are debating today the report of the Committee on Finance 21. It is the spring amending budget, which is designed to make changes in government expenditure and to provide funds to authorities and activities that need it because the ordinary budget is not enough. The Swedish Democrats differ relatively from the government in eight appropriations. These are appropriations which, in many cases, are directly or indirectly related to immigration policy. In other cases, appropriations are unclear, unspecified or even unnecessary. There are, of course, budgetary initiatives that are welcome, but they should be higher and would have been higher with a Swedish democratic policy. I will not go through this appropriation for appropriations, but I note that the contributions could have been more ambitious with a long-term sustainable immigration policy. Immigration policy, with this government, has gone from being extreme to being almost deliberately destructive. As a consequence, the allocation for migration needs to be increased once again in order to cope with the challenges of the current year. The abolition of ID checks is likely to lead to an increase in migration appropriations next year as well. Furthermore, there is now a redistribution of welfare from those who have built this country to those who do not – from those who have done well to those who have lied about age and identity. What comes out now, piece by piece, is the most expensive and extensive fraud at the expense of Swedish taxpayers in modern times. In one of the world's most tax-intensive countries, world-class welfare is expected. We should have, but instead we have a health and police crisis in the country. It is not the fault of doctors, nurses or police – they follow their part of the social contract and more, every day, every week and every year. The increase in appropriations in these areas is certainly to be welcomed, but how far will it go? Will they prevent patients from being forced to fly to other countries for surgery? Will the lines of care disappear? Will funding increases solve the health crisis? Will they stop the masseops in the police? Will they stop the attacks on the bluelight personnel and put out the fires in our suburbs? I think we all know the answer to those questions. As far as searches for appropriations for the police are concerned, all the representatives of this House know that they are a fraud. Last winter the head of the National Police Department took a loan of SEK 525 million in order not to have to fire people. Shortly after that, the government presented a so-called "stakeholder" on the Police Authority, which is also included in this budget. What is said, however, is that the money goes to repay the entire loan. This has been done before the spring change budget has even been put into effect. It is an amazing procedure; it is like taking a quick loan on the 25th and still failing to pay the bills. Mr President, I would like to Although this is a debate on an amending budget, the real cost is not economic but social. Today, more and more Swedish pensioners are living below the poverty line. In some areas young girls no longer dare to go out alone at night. Confidence in state institutions is falling, tensions are increasing and cohesion is falling. This decay has been made possible and accepted as a new state of normality by the fundamental globalism of which the other parties profess or have professed. However, this has not always been the case. Not so long ago, the old-age robbery was an unknown concept, and gang war was associated with the 1930s in the United States. Not long ago, terrorists did not wander freely in streets and squares. Do you remember when common sense and idealism preceded political game theory and opportunism? Mr President, I would like to The problems are bigger than a spring change budget, but my point is that a better society is possible. I therefore find it remarkable that it is only the Swedish Democrats who demand change and show their dissatisfaction with the government's amending budget by making their own proposal. The whole bourgeoisie does not pursue an active opposition policy, and this fact consolidates SD as the only opposition party in Swedish politics. I support the Swedish Democrats' reservation 1 in the Committee on Finance's report 21.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-371	Mr President, I would like to Good news is not news, and consequently nobody takes the floor in the debate on the state's annual report for 2016. However, I have ten years of experience with the EU budget as a Member of the European Parliament, and not one of the ten years in which the Commission received a positive statement of assurance in terms of expenditure and underlying payments. Although I do not sit on the Finance Committee, I still thought that one can spread some hope and joy to the Swedish people. We can stress that Sweden last year had a budget that went 95 billion SEK better than planned. It is in the order of two defence budgets better than planned. Revenues were higher than planned, mainly due to higher taxes on production and capital – tax revenues, that is. Expenditure was lower than planned, for example, for sickness benefit and housing allowance. Expenditure on migration was 22 billion higher than planned – but still 3 billion less than budgeted in the supplementary budget. Consolidated public debt decreased by 60 billion. At that rate, it would have been wiped out for 21 years. It is other than during my childhood, when a waketong in the newspapers each year was a baby baby with a debt check on her stomach that was constantly growing. Not even in Sweden, however, is all the peace and joy; the National Property Board has received comments for well-known reasons, and the Swedish Agency for Growth has even failed because the Swedish National Audit Office has reported a disagreement due to serious deficiencies. Ironically, the problems concern EU funds, but in this case the responsibility lies entirely with the Swedish Agency for Growth. The biggest growth that I hope to see there next year is the order of accounting. Capital gains are increasing. The state's resources are increasing. At the same time, there are hundreds of thousands of people in the country who cannot take a vacation and cannot afford to make up exciting things with their children or have the opportunity to visit their grandchildren. The growing divides are a problem throughout the Western world. They both hamper economic efficiency and strangle solidarity. I believe that the biggest challenge in the next few years will be not to burn people out in search of wealth or survival and not to burn the planet out in pursuit of consumption, which no longer even brings lasting joy. Fortunately, we have the resources to solve both of these problems. Mr President, I would like to Soon we will conclude our parliamentary year – together we will leave the Chamber. Then let's hope that new ideas bud when we all under the sun are grilled and our thoughts on social media are liked. Then we will strengthen back this autumn with a stronger voice for Sweden and the world. Our decisions will then be able to put all their weight into the fact that resources are sufficient and we will be able to meet the needs of our citizens. We can replace short-term economic monolithic with long-term sustainable biodiversity. With the right policies, the resources of the state and the other rich can be enough to put an end to poverty which is burning agony. My speaking time is now up – others are now getting the arguments turned around.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-379	Mr President, I would like to It is very nice to see that there is such a great interest in financial market legislation in this House. Today's decision is important in order for the rules applicable to banks and other financial market players to be regulated at EU level. Unfortunately, we know that there are far too many ugly fish that go to the financial market with another goal: to make as much money as possible. This is done by giving in to the curves of compliance, by using misleading marketing and by simply having profit-hunting as an incentive. This puts serious players at risk of being knocked out. One example of this – which in itself is not covered by the regulatory framework we are debating today, but the principle is the same – is the premium pension company Allra. Like many other examples, they went up like a sun and down like a pancake, but they also made extreme profits. Expensive cars and a villa on Lidingö for SEK 50 million were some of the owners' extravagant expenses in recent years. It used aggressive telephone sales and sold expensive advice on how savers would place premium pensions, while the company charged high fees. The Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority was given permission to conduct savings operations. When you had control of the savers' money, you bought so-called warrants. These generated profits, but the profits were passed on to the owner – not to the fund savers. The attention being paid to fraudsters like the Allra shows that the audit system works. However, when the limitation period is too short, this runs the risk that it will not be possible to impose penalties for the offences committed. Two years is a very short limitation period. In practice, this means that an authority has very short time to take action when it has found an error. It may have been a year and a half since the error occurred, and then time is extremely short. Therefore, the limitation period needs to be extended, for example to five years. Extending the limitation period is something that is addressed by the study that was tasked with proposing how to implement the EU Directive in Sweden. The investigation indicated that the cases are complex and that there may be reason to allow natural persons to give their opinion when Finansinspektionen considers that the company has breached the rules, which of course extends the processing time. The majority of referral bodies supported the proposal, and no referral body rejected it. But for some unclear reason the government has not done so. Obviously, you're not worried about any more Allra scandals. Most of them were already established in 2008. Several of the ambiguities that exist are from 2015, but there are also ambiguities from previous years. Mr President, I would like to One of the major debates before the government bill was the issue of a ban on commissions. Some operators have apparently made a lot of money selling products that have benefited the seller more than they have benefited the buyer. At the same time, there have been other players, such as the savings banks, who have been serious and for whom commission has been an important complement in the business model and in relation to customers. I believe that the government's proposal to ban, in some cases, third party compensation is a step in the right direction. Increased competition in the banking sector is a very important issue and therefore there may be grounds for introducing a total ban on commissions. The UK and the Netherlands have already introduced different types of commission bans. This seems to have led both to increased competition and to price pressure. However, the introduction of a commission ban may affect smaller operators who do not have their own savings products and their own distribution, such as savings banks. This can lead to reduced competition and benefit large banks and the larger insurance companies at the expense of smaller operators, which is something the Swedish Competition Authority, among other things, has pointed out in its referral. According to the Left Party, the government should investigate how a ban on commissions could be designed and what consequences such a ban could have. The government should therefore set up an investigation to examine in more detail how a commission ban could be designed and what consequences such a proposal would have, not least for competition in the banking sector. Having said that, I would like to ask for the approval of reservation 2.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-395	Mr President, I would like to I am not only the last speaker in this debate, but also the last speaker in the debate on matters during this Parliamentary session. I don't know whether to interpret it as being an anchor or whether to be particularly honored by it. I will not try to take advantage of all the six minutes I have in speaking time. If I had gone through this matter from start to finish and explained the whole matter, I would have needed at least 15 minutes, and I do not think you are particularly interested in sitting and listening when I talk about financial market issues for 15 minutes. I try to shorten and make a very brief summary of this. This is one of the reports we have to deal with concerning what followed the 2008 financial crisis. It is now time to implement this regulatory framework. In short, it can be said that MiFID and MiFID II are about strengthening the efficiency and integrity of the financial market. Legal tools to be used against investment firms, regulated markets and other trading venues, data reporting service providers and third country firms providing investment services and carrying out investment activities shall also be provided. This also applies to raw materials and emissions trading, so this will also become part of the financial market, which it has not always been in the past. Among other things, this report mentions strengthening transparency in relation to the various financial market players. Another important measure that has been taken, such as the S Olvens II crisis management directive, which deals with how to deal with crises in banks and insurance companies, is that there will also be a special responsibility for management and management. Today, just as Håkan Svenneling said earlier, it is possible to slip away and say that you do not have the full responsibility. You don't have to stand for everything all the time. Some of these holes will thus be clogged. Another important point in this context is that advice will be much more guided. There has been strong criticism of the advice. For example, advice has been given to use their own products. This will now be regulated so that it is not possible to do so. The commission has perhaps been the issue that has been discussed most during the consultation period. Some smaller banks, but especially the savings banks, have had a lot of views on it. The bill is now scaled down so much that it follows what the directive requires. We cannot go much further, because then the Commission would immediately tell us that we have broken the rules, and then we could have to pay a fine. When it comes to the limitation period, you can always discuss whether it should be three or two years. There are very advanced financial crimes, and they usually take a very long time to investigate. I think we should check here how this is going to fall out. The Directive also provides for a limitation period of two years. But there may be reason to come back to this. With this, Mr President, I support the committee's proposal and reject the motion. I wish the House a very pleasant summer.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-408	Mr President, I would like to I couldn't help asking for a line at Börje Vestlund because I know how much Börje likes to debate with me and I with him, so I thought we should have this line shift as a summer finish. I'd love to hear you, Börje, talk about this for 15 minutes. After all, it is one of the thickest proposals of the year that we are now debating, so it was a solid bill that we received on the table of Parliament. A major problem with the government having set a clear standard with a limitation period of only two years in all types of financial market legislation is that the type of scammer that Allra has proven to be escapes very easily. You make big profits over a number of years and then hope to escape, but as usual, the system often catches up with you. Now there is a debate and discussion in Sweden about changing the entire premium pension system fundamentally as a consequence of a company's actions. This means that we have a situation where it is important to access the assets that have been cheated on in different ways. If there are villas for 50 million and luxury cars that have been used for Gumball 3000, it shows that there are incredible assets that these owners have usurped, and it is far from certain that it has been done in a legal way. I do not understand why the government and the Social Democrats are not interested in doing anything about these fraudsters. In practice, a large system is being built in which a great deal of resources is put in place to enable Finansinspektionen to review these types of actors, but at the other end they do not give them the time frame that they need to handle them. As a result, the target is missed in practice and people who cheat get away with it. Why should we have it that way, Börje?
i-d30c39520a3561c7-414	Mr President, I would like to If it were the way Håkan Svenneling thinks, that more people would get caught if we had three years' limitation period, I would be happy. If the limitation period were to be several years, one could imagine that Finansinspektionen could continue to work on the matters. There have been very many consultation bodies, and it is important that the proposal is as thorough as possible. I believe that it is and that a good balance has been struck here. I have tried to follow the financial market quite closely, and it is only on a few occasions that it has not been possible to prosecute those who have committed crimes in these cases. It is not that you do not have to answer to Finansinspektionen and have to pay large amounts of damages to Finansinspektionen. There is no limitation period. However, the limitation period is two years in the case of a crime. This is also regulated in the bill by a much more precise regulatory framework, not least as regards investment firms, which Håkan Svenneling talks about in this context.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-419	Mr President, I would like to I note that the government is alone in its opinion. None of the consultation bodies agree with the government but think that the investigator's proposal for a three-year limitation period would be better. Some consultation bodies even think it would be longer. Nevertheless, I would like to thank Mr Börje very much for this debate and wish him a pleasant summer. I hope he gets some sun and warmth and that he can enjoy the summer and catch up well for the last Parliamentary year of this parliamentary term.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-421	Mr President, I would like to I'd like to wish Håkan Svenneling the same.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-426	Ladies and gentlemen! A parliamentary year is coming to an end. It has been a year full of political activity, debates and decisions. Next year, there's a choice. Given how quickly this parliamentary year has passed, I hope that you will all have prepared to be in the midst of a burning election campaign in a year's time. It'll be quick now. You are 349 MPs who work every day in the service of democracy. You make every day efforts to make Sweden a better society, and next year you will have to make it extra much. Starting in the autumn of 2018, we will also do something extra, and that is that we will then start celebrating Sweden as a democracy. We will celebrate the centenary of Swedish democracy between 2018 and January 2022. It will end in January 2022 when it is exactly 100 years since the first women entered the Riksdag. However, we are already celebrating something else this year, and it is the parliamentary order that is celebrating 400 years this year. It was Axel Oxenstierna who held the pen when the Riksdag got its first regulations. The Riksdag Order is worth paying attention, and we do so with activities that will contribute to increasing interest in the role of the Riksdag in society. I am pleased that we have a parliamentary order that there is no party political squabble about, but that we can agree on what our working methods here in Parliament look like. The Axel Oxenstierna were far-sighted, but even he did not bear in mind that we would at some point become members of the European Union. Of course, the regulatory framework in the European Union means that we in Parliament must also adapt. It falls on us to work on it. Under the leadership of First Vice-President Tobias Billström, we have a parliamentary committee that is in the process of investigating Parliament's work on EU issues. In fact, it is already ten years since these forms of work were reviewed, and much has changed. We need to discuss what the relationship with, or control of, the government should look like from the Riksdag and also what the Riksdag's relationship to the European Commission and its various proposals should look like. It is not always easy for us Members to follow all EU rules and the different paths of all EU processes. That is why this autumn you will have access to a digital European guide. You will be able to easily find all possible information about the European Union and how to follow and influence the process as a Member. For you, it will be enough to look at your phone. And look down on your cell phone, I know you can. In the autumn we will also have new local regulations. The whole reason why we have revised the local regulations is to create better conditions for you as members and for the party groups to be able to carry out political work in the Riksdag. It will be easier for you Members to book premises, and you will also have the opportunity to book larger premises than before. The parties will also have greater opportunities to have activities that also have external guests in order to be able to engage in political development. In today's local regulations, there is something called an internal nature, and it is now being removed to enable the parliamentary groups to have meetings to develop their policies. I think it'll be very good. Ladies and gentlemen! A year goes very fast. Most of you are now thinking about next year's election campaign. But there are some of us who aren't thinking much about next year's election campaign. Four of them are here with us today. I would therefore like to direct my thanks to you for your efforts in the service of democracy. I want to start with Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson. Your career has gone from many trade union assignments to municipal assignments and then on to 14 years in the Riksdag. In you, industry and the environment really meet, and you have used it in your parliamentary mission. You have, above all, been active in the Environment and Agriculture Committee, but you have also worked in the EU Board. You have mainly worked on three priority issues: fishing, fishing and fishing. You're an energetic person. When you were young, you were an athlete, and you have the clip left in the step as you move quickly in Parliament's corridors. But you're moving fast even in politics. You're combatable and strong, but always fair. Injustice, you, Jan-Olof-Olof Larsson, have always resisted. You're ready to take the fight for what you believe in. It doesn't matter if it's four o'clock at a party congress-- the party board and the agriculture minister have made a bad proposal, well then it's just me voting! You didn't win the vote, but at least you tried. You, too, are loyal and far from long-hearted. Once a decision is made, that is what applies – until the next time the issue comes up anyway. You have been involved in shaping social democratic fisheries policy and thereby contributed to sustainable fishing. Not least the discard ban, which means that fish that has been taken up must not be thrown back, you have worked very hard for. It is not only in Parliament that you are involved in fisheries issues. Of course you are at home in Kungshamn too. I wish you not only good fishing luck but also good luck in your municipal political missions and as a part-time expert for the Minister for Rural Affairs. Good luck!
i-d30c39520a3561c7-441	Hans Linde! You have been a Member of Parliament for almost eleven years. But I have to say that you are the same from the time I first met you on the Foreign Affairs Committee. You're the same strong debater today. It's just the beard that's been added ever since. It is precisely on the Foreign Affairs Committee that you have been most active here in the Riksdag, even if you had other assignments as well. You have been the group leader, for which I have been grateful as President. You have also been the spokesperson of the Left Party on foreign policy and LGBTQ issues. In the plenary session of the committee and in this House, your commitment has been incredibly strong. Here you have pushed for a fair and solidarity foreign policy, development issues and, not least, women's rights. You know the importance of what lies behind the letter combination SRHR. Perhaps it is your sense of solidarity that has given you the qualities you are associated with. You are a fine team player with kindness, wisdom and skill. You think new and fast and you want to find ways forward. But you never put the democratic process aside. Hans! Your commitment from the Riksdag is also taken with you in your spare time. Foreign policy came forward through board assignments in the Swedish Afghanistan Committee as well as your willingness to travel the world and meet people. Your drive and commitment make an impression both at home and internationally. You make such an impression that you have even been named one of the world's five most handsome politicians. Yes, yes, it was in India! However, although the study was carried out in India, I believe that many of us would like to give such an impression. I am convinced that both the ability to make an impression as well as the skill and commitment will be well-suited to your new position as chairman of RFSU. Hans! Thank you for your efforts in Parliament, and good luck in the new assignment!
i-d30c39520a3561c7-449	I would also like to turn to Erik Ullenhag. Erik! You've gone a long way in politics. Even so, you're still as young. You joined the Youth League and were then party active and a Member of Parliament. You became party secretary and group leader, and I was incredibly happy as President. You've been a minister, too. You really have a solid record. In the Riksdag, you have been a member of the Committee on Employment, Social Affairs and Finance, and you have been your party's spokesperson on issues such as economic policy and integration. You're not active as a politician as long as you've been if you're not strongly committed. Openness and diversity, LGBTQ, climate and environment – these are examples of issues that fit within your position for everyone's equal value and rights. A knowledgeable person, considerate and kind, actually an unusually kind politician-- that's what I hear about you. But I also hear you're fast-winded, analytical, and a good negotiator. You have a sense of humor and warmth. But there are times when these qualities shine with their absence. It's in Parliament's floorball hall. When your team loses, humor and warmth disappear. You're actually the proof of how fast today's politics is going. I am, of course, thinking of the beard shock – as it says in the headlines of the evening newspapers these days. Never has a beard grown as fast as when you were interviewed on TV. It's time. 19.42 you were on a news broadcast on TV. Three minutes later, at. 7:45, you'll be interviewed again. This time it's about other issues, and you have a beard. Of course, the interviews had taken place in a different order, and you had had time to shave in between. But TV put it up in such a way that you saw an unusually strong beard. Politics sometimes offers unimagined turns. Erik! Many thanks for your time in Parliament, and good luck in your mission as Sweden's ambassador to Jordan!
i-d30c39520a3561c7-460	Engagement is the key word of the day, and that also applies to you, Hans Unander. As a Member of Parliament, you have served on the Housing Committee and the Finance Committee, where you were responsible for the AP funds. But you have also raised many other questions. At home in Dalarna, you have been active in trade unions, including as chairman of Kommunal in Dalarna. But you have also worked with questions about hunting and infrastructure. You have had the railway in focus and been the driving force for the establishment of an airport in Sälen. You have brought your commitment into the parliamentary work. Infrastructure issues and Dalarna has in you had a stubborn, strong and loyal spokesperson. Now that you have resigned, I am quite sure that they are pushing out in the Government Office, because you are such a person who can really push on in questions and hang in – if you say so – when it comes to what is important for you and for Dalarna. And of course, the Government Office felt that. You are such a driving force because you stand strong in your values. You use your experience, stubbornness and glimpse in the eye to move forward and achieve results. You're a straight-up person who's not afraid to say what you think. And that's a good quality for a politician. You know what you're talking about. In our society you can create change, and through political and trade union engagement you can get all the way to the Swedish parliament. You did. Hans! Thank you for your years as a Member of Parliament. I wish you every success in your continued work as Chairman of the Municipal Executive Board and Mayor of Malung-Sälen.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-466	I would also like to say a few words about those Members who have resigned but who are unable to be here today. Of course, I would still like to pay attention to their work. Håkan Juholt entered the Riksdag in 1994. He has always been a very committed, and engaging, politician. Few other politicians like Håkan, from a speaker's chair or in a debate, can bring along and enthusiasm for the audience. The anchoring of politics and peoples' movement work is solid. He has been active in SSU, in municipal politics. He has been assistant party secretary and, of course, party leader. Common to all of the assignments is that Håkan has taken on them with a strong commitment to issues that have been with him for a long time, such as equality and distribution policy. He also has a great cultural interest. Håkan also has a long track as defence policy behind him. He has been chairman of the Defence Committee and of the Defence Committee – I honestly do not know for how many years – member of the Foreign Affairs Board and the War Delegation as well as the Riksdag delegation to the NATO Parliamentary Assembly and the OSCE delegation. Håkan will take office as Sweden's ambassador in Iceland, and I wish him every success in that mission.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-471	I would also like to thank Ulf Berg. He was once a police officer who was influenced by what he saw in his profession and entered politics to change and work to give young people a good start in life. Ulf is a person with a great heart and commitment, and I think that is the basis for both his previous career choices and his career in politics.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-472	Rural areas, green industries, hunting and game conservation are also among the issues Ulf is happy to pursue. He has been a rural political spokesperson for his party and has, among other things, been a member of the Parliamentary Committee on Rural Development. I wish Ulf good luck in his new assignment as an opposition council in Dalarna County Council.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-474	Jämtin Jämtin has been a Member of Parliament for a couple of different rounds. She has also been a minister, party secretary and opposition council. Carin has really acted both locally, in Stockholm, and globally with a strong commitment to environmental and development issues. Her various missions have always been linked to what she is passionate about, that is, people's rights and freedoms, equality, the environment and democracy. Carin is now back on the international development issues where she has been active for so long. I would like to thank Carin for her time in Parliament and wish her good luck in her new assignment as Director General of Sida.
i-d30c39520a3561c7-477	Anders Forsberg became a member of parliament after the 2014 elections and has been a member of the Committee on the Environment and Agriculture, but before that he was active in his party for a long time. Anders is very involved in agricultural, forestry and rural issues. This is evident not least among his parliamentary movements, debates, written questions and interpellations. There are also issues where he can combine practice at home with theory in politics. Outside the Riksdag, Anders is a farmer, so it is easy to see the consistent commitment to his different roles. Thank you, Anders, for your time in Parliament!
i-d30c39520a3561c7-479	Ladies and gentlemen! Of course, I would also like to thank all of you who will be here again at the opening of the Parliamentary Session this autumn. Thank you very much for your contributions to Parliament during the past parliamentary year! I would also like to thank the Vice-Presidents, the group leaders and the members of the parliamentary board for their excellent cooperation. I would also like to thank the Director of Parliament and the administrative staff for their excellent work. I wish you all a pleasant, sunny and relaxing summer vacation!
i-d30c39520a3561c7-482	Mr President, I would like to I would like to take this opportunity, on behalf of the Members, to thank the President for the past year. I would also like to take this opportunity to agree with everything that has been said, but I would like to make a small addition, because I am currently privileged to have been here the longest. This supplement is about this summer and this summer break being the last summer break that you yourself have control over, if you are going to run next year. The President said earlier that time is fast. But try to make sure that this summer goes a little slower than usual! Next year, I promise you, time will go much faster. With that, Mr President, I wish the President and his family a pleasant and relaxing summer.
