i-9Fst8R8DcWqRYBEcvgJT6M	During the plenary session on 13 September 2017, Paula Bieler, the Swedish Democrats, raised a motion of censure against Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. The job was assisted by at least 35 members and was suspended a first time later that day. The petition was postponed once more on 14 September 2017, and it will now be decided. The floor for explanations of vote has been requested by Anders Ygeman, Jessica Polfjärd, Jimmie Åkesson, Jonas Eriksson and Sydow Mia. There is no right to reply to these speeches.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-0	Mr President, I would like to The Swedish Democrats have requested that the Riksdag declare that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven does not enjoy the confidence of the Riksdag. A motion of censure on the Prime Minister is the most powerful tool that the Riksdag can use against a current government. This is tantamount to calling for the resignation of the whole government, as a result of the provisions of the form of government. It should therefore be used with discernment and care. Unfortunately, the request of the Swedish democrats is neither discerning nor caring. Nor is it the first time that the Swedish Democrats have asked for a motion of censure during this parliamentary term. It is not the second time either, but it is the third time in less than three years that the Swedish Democrats want to use this tool. On the previous two occasions, the Swedish Democrats were also the only party to vote in favour of a motion of censure. I assume today's vote will produce the same result. Mr President, I would like to We live in an uncertain environment. The tension in our neighborhood is increasing. Developments on the Korean Peninsula cause the nuclear threat to once again cast dark shadows over the world. In this troubled time, the Swedish Democrats want to throw Sweden into a government crisis through a motion of censure against the Prime Minister. Jimmie Åkesson, you do not act with the best interests of Sweden in mind but for what you think benefits your own narrow party interest. Your actions are an expression of a simple political game that I am convinced the citizens of Sweden will see through. The Socialist parliamentary group is calling for a rejection of the motion of censure on Prime Minister Stefan Löfven. He, like the entire government, has our full and undivided trust.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-5	Mr President, I would like to On behalf of the Moderates, the Center Party, the Liberals and the Christian Democrats, let me begin by emphasising the seriousness of the situation arising from the breaches of the law at the Transport Board and the government's lack of communication and handling. It is still difficult to see the full consequences of what has happened. The security risk arose when large amounts of classified information related to national security and individuals were handled in breach of existing legislation. This happened in a deteriorating security situation as it is of particular importance to act responsibly. We cannot rule out that very sensitive data that may harm individuals as well as Sweden and Sweden may have become available for foreign power. Both the Swedish Armed Forces and Säpo point out that what has happened is serious. The head of Säpo has stated that the information that has not been properly protected must be regarded as being in the wrong hands. The Swedish Armed Forces have had to take measures to deal with the consequences of the extensive leak. The management of the security crisis has also exposed major shortcomings in the work and responsibility of the government. Two ministers and one State Secretary have already resigned to follow by their parts of the information breach which has taken place in the Government Office. Ultimately, it is the Prime Minister who is responsible for how the government and the Government Office work. The new information that has emerged in recent weeks focuses more clearly on the Prime Minister and his immediate circle. Many questions remain for the Prime Minister to answer. We will not be satisfied until all the cards are on the table. There, the continued scrutiny of the actions of the State Minister and the Government is absolutely central. Today's abstention should not be interpreted as a partial acquittal of the Prime Minister's responsibility for the security crisis and its handling.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-12	Mr President, I would like to During the summer, revelations have replaced each other about known violations of laws, about leakage of safety-rated information that has occurred in connection with the Swedish Transport Agency's procurement of IT services. Already at the end of July, it became clear that at least three ministers bear a particular responsibility, and the whole opposition declared that they had lost their confidence in them. Even then, we from the Swedish Democrats felt that if the Prime Minister himself did not understand the seriousness of their actions, we would consider his confidence exhausted. The fourth year of the term of office has now begun. Earlier this week, Prime Minister Stefan Löfven presented his Government Declaration to this Parliamentary Session. It also meant that the deadline that we from the Swedish Democrats had given him, to show understanding and to take responsibility for the safety accident at the Swedish Transport Agency, has expired. It is also clear today that national security is being violated, not only by the then current ministers, but also by officials and politicians on several levels. A number of people have left their assignments, and at any such time the Prime Minister has announced that it has been their own decision. Our requested insight has not proved itself. In the meantime, the flow of information has also drawn ever closer to the Prime Minister himself. In addition, a number of crucial questions have been raised regarding, for example, the activities – or rather the lack of activity – within the Security Council established by the Prime Minister. Overall, it is clear to us that either of two scenarios has taken place in recent years. Scenario 1 means that information flows within the Government and the Government Office on issues of utmost importance are working inadequately, to say the least, and that the Prime Minister has not only failed to steer this up, but also takes it with rest. Scenario two means that the Prime Minister prefers to blame others and denies knowledge of such issues and shortcomings in his actions as a result. Regardless of which of these scenarios is correct, they are as inexplicable as they are inexcusable. It is our opinion that the Prime Minister does not take his responsibilities seriously. The Swedish Democrats argue in accordance with Chapter 13. §4 The form of government that the Riksdag should declare that Prime Minister Stefan Löfven does not enjoy the trust of the Riksdag. Then there are other circumstances that I think are worth highlighting in this context, namely Stefan Lövven's inability to push through his own policy in Parliament, a suspended new election, the migration breakdown, the crisis in health care, the crisis in the police and so on. I believe that opposition has a responsibility to act. There has been much talk over the last few days about how powerful the instrument of mistrust is, that it should be used very carefully and so on. I agree with that. But now we have a situation in the country that we are not used to, namely that none of the traditional blocs has its own majority. This will therefore become an instrument that will be used more often in the Swedish Parliament. I don't think it's the least bit weird. It is also said that we have a troubled world. We do, Mr President, but it is even more important that we depose a government that does not take security seriously.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-24	Mr President, I would like to The Prime Minister enjoys the full trust of the Green Party. The intention of government officials to violate Swedish law is, of course, unacceptable. The shortcomings and miscalculations that have pre-emergency have had to bear the consequences of both government staff and government ministers. The Government has taken a number of measures to investigate the Swedish Transport Agency's procurement of IT operations and to ensure that safety-classified information is handled correctly and safely by other authorities. There is no doubt in the Green Party that the Prime Minister takes these issues very seriously. The Prime Minister has not taken this issue in peace. The fact that the Swedish Democrats lack confidence in Prime Minister Löfven and the Red-Green Government is neither unexpected nor unknown. To make this clear, there is hardly any need to resort to statements of confidence in parties and minutes. There seems to be inflation in the threats of misconception. As has been mentioned earlier, this is not the first time that SD has tried to raise claims of censure on the Prime Minister and other ministers. You do not like the government's policy, and then you threaten with a motion of censure. When something happens, before you really know what has happened and factual investigations and reviews have taken place, you cry out for explanations of confidence. Declaration of trust is a powerful tool. It is a weapon intended to serve as an ultimate guarantee of parliamentarism. The Swedish people have the right to expect that it is not used routinely or as part of the political game. On behalf of the environmental party parliamentary group, I call for a rejection of the motion of censure on Prime Minister Löfven.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-29	Mr President, I would like to Today's vote of censure has no reasonable basis. The Left Party does not consider this to be serious, and we therefore see no reason to support the Swedish Democrats' request. In the last election, the Swedish people spoke out. This Parliament was voted on, and Stefan Löfven was able to take up office as Sweden's Prime Minister on the basis of the results of the elections. When Stefan Löfven then announced that he did not want to form a government with the Left Party, we did not want the consequence of that. In the 2014 Prime Minister's vote, we chose to abstain. We have since acted as an opposition party, as the left-wing alternative in Swedish politics. However, we have been a constructive opposition party, and we intend to remain so. We have negotiated with the government agreements and budgets, where we have contributed to both expanding welfare and increasing equality. But the Left Party is not part of the government. We are in opposition, and that is why we will abstain in today's vote.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-32	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked the Prime Minister both if the Prime Minister does not see a serious risk that the credibility of the investigation is seriously damaged when it is politicised by giving a large number of investigative assignments to investigators who are not free from the current party policy, and how the Prime Minister views the investigative body's role in Swedish democracy and how the Prime Minister wants to develop it. The interpellation has been handed over to me. I would like to begin by emphasising that the decision to appoint investigators is taken on a factual basis after careful consideration. As the Constitutional Committee has stated, political experience can be a factual basis among many when it is part of the investigation mission to present proposals that strike such a balance between different interests where political values play an important role. This means that politicians, such as MPs, are sometimes appointed investigators. This was also the case during the alliance governments in 2006– 2014, when politicians were appointed investigators on several occasions. I cannot see that under the current government there would have been any change that could lead to damage to the credibility of the investigative services. The investigation system plays an important role in Swedish democracy. It is of central importance for the government's ability to submit proposals for legislative measures to the Riksdag, among other things. The government will work to ensure that the investigation services can continue to deliver high-quality decision-making documents, but do not currently see the need to take any specific measures.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-36	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs for the answer, although I put the interpellation to the Prime Minister, which I did because this is a horizontal issue and is about how the work of the government as a whole is carried out. A central part of the government's work is the investigation system. It is an important part of obtaining the basis on which the government's draft legislation, on which we are taking a decision in this House, is based. It is quite clear that the government has and must have the right to set up its investigations and formulate their directives. The government has a great freedom here, but with this freedom comes responsibility. In any case, I think it is a great responsibility to safeguard the independence of the investigative services and thus the high level of confidence enjoyed by the investigative system. However, I now see, Mr President, that the government undermines confidence in the investigative system by politicising it and allowing one, than the other party partner to deliver – if the term is allowed – commissioned jobs. The Minister said in his reply that politicians, such as MPs, are sometimes appointed investigators. But now it is not the case that we are talking about a few individual investigators who happen to be members of parliament or otherwise have a connection with day-to-day politics, but the current government has made this a bit of a trend. It has become extremely common for the special investigators to have a pin on the jacket team. As by chance, the politicians who are appointed investigators also happen to be social democrats, environmentalists and, in a few cases, left-wing parties. The list of government investigations led by people who are not free from day-to-day politics is now getting very long. Agneta Börjesson, Member of Parliament of the Green Party, had to investigate the position of tenants. AnnaAnna-Lena Sörenson, Member of Parliament of the S, is investigating the pharmacy market. Anders Wallner, MP's former party secretary, is investigating the controversial proposal for a new free year, or alternate year, which is the new word from the government. Maria Ferm, Member of Parliament, Group Leader and MP Migration Policy spokesperson, investigates legal ways into Europe. Åsa Romson, the former Minister for the Environment, investigates Sweden's environmental monitoring. Lise Nordin, Member of Parliament and Energy Policy spokesperson for the Green Party, investigates issues related to energy efficiency improvements. The last appointment was well made by Nooshi Dadgostar, who is a member of the Swedish Government's Left Party support party and is now investigating construction rights. Mr President, I would like to I think it is quite clear that there are no isolated or isolated cases. We see a clear trend here: that the government lets party friends take responsibility for important government investigations on issues that are often quite sensitive. Migration policy is loaded. It would certainly have served to have an investigator who is free from day-to-day politics and can produce a basis that can create the conditions for broad agreements. I really must ask the Government if the government does not see any problem with the trend that has been created. Isn't the government concerned? Does the government not at least see a risk that all these political investigators actually undermine confidence in the investigative services and that it is itself a democracy problem?
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-43	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to make a formal point. The appointment of an investigator is a delicate task. There's a lot to be considered. It is usually a difficult task to carry out investigations, and the person you appoint must be able to fulfil his task: to provide a good basis for decision-making to the government. I have been in government for seven years and have been involved in appointing a large number of investigators, both politicians and non-politicians, to both parliamentary committees and one-man investigations. Very often, a lawyer is needed to conduct an investigation. The vast majority of investigators are lawyers. But sometimes political experience is crucial to the success of the mission. It is not always the case that the lawyers you appoint do a better job and do the very best investigations and that politicians do worse investigations. There are probably, I would say, some examples of the fact that, on the contrary, investigations have failed when it was a question of having, as it were, a completely different background. The KU statement clearly states that political experience can be a factual basis for investigative missions, and it can of course be examined on a case-by-case basis. Now Johan Hultberg claims that this is being abused. For this he has no evidence. He claims that we use politicians more often than the previous government. He doesn't show any evidence of it. He mentions five red-green examples in his interpellation and adds two today to the debate. He claims that these seven examples undermine confidence in the investigative system. Those are pretty hard words. I say that this government does not do anything different than the bourgeois did. We currently have 193 investigations under way in the Government Office. The interpeller mentions that there are political backgrounds in seven of these. By these seven, he means undermining the investigative system. We've got 27 ongoing investigations at the Justice Department right now. One of them is carried out by a Member of Parliament. You can then go back and see how the bourgeois government did. The interpellant gave seven names. I can easily list ten names of bourgeois Members who conducted investigations. Sofia Larsen, center party, was appointed investigator of school issues. Jan Ertsborn, People's Party – Liberal – investigated a coordinated insolvency procedure. Allan Widman, popular partyist, investigated the veteran soldier question. Mats Gerdau, moderate, investigated independent adult education. Rose-Marie-Marie Frebran, Christian Democrat, investigated public broadcasting. Inger Davidson, Christian Democrat, investigated the issue of parental support. Dialogue with municipalities on refugee reception was called an investigation by Sten Nordin, moderate. Veteran investigation – one more time it was Allan Widman, a popular partyist, who was given the assignment. Hunting team investigation – Håkan Larsson, center party. The SFI investigation – Christer Hallerby, former Secretary of State of the Liberals. You've given me seven names. I could easily get out ten names. My questions to the interpellant are: Was Johan Hultberg as upset then? How many interpellations did he write to Fredrik Reinfeldt that Fredrik Reinfeldt and his government undermined the investigative system? Did he run his legs off to press the then Prime Minister on this matter in this speaker's chair? The answer, of course, is no. He didn't.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-49	Mr President, I would like to This debate is taking a rather anticipated approach. That's exactly what I expected. But to me it is quite obvious that my mission as a Member of Parliament is to review the current government. The current government is represented in this debate by Morgan Johansson. I think there is reason to question some of the appointments made by this government. I point out in my interpellation that there are certainly cases where it may be reasonable to appoint a Member of Parliament. It is not the case that every active politician is automatically disqualified as a government investigator. It is true that the Alliance Government also set up a number of investigations that were led or conducted by politicians. Moreover, many times it is parliamentary preparations where there really is a reason to appoint politicians, because it is a question of broad political participation. I myself have worked in the state environmental policy committee where a representative from each party has taken responsibility for the fact that we have now been able to make decisions on a long-term climate policy with broad support here in Parliament. What concerns me is not only the number of investigators who happen to have a party needle, but also the content if you look a little at what questions they are. I think that it is far too easy, as the Minister is trying to do in the answer, to focus only on the number and have as a defence speech to list a number of examples of investigators who had a party needle during the time of the Alliance. If we look at the investigations that have been carried out during this parliamentary term, we can, for example, take Ilmar Reepalus's inquiry into welfare gains. We have hardly seen for many years a more politically charged issue that has been up for debate and investigation. This investigation is not only ideological but also ideologically driven. We have had an order job from the government to make a proposal for a profit ban. Above all, it has been driven by the Left Party. A loyal Social-Democrat is being set up who is skilfully trying to round up the obvious issues that should have been raised in the inquiry into, for example, how a proposal for a profit ban relates to the form of government and, not least, the European Convention. These were issues that were already brought to the attention of the Legislative Council earlier when the then Social Democratic Government tried to introduce the Stop Act. Mr President, I would like to It is quite clear to me that there are a number of investigations here that are very problematic where there are members of parliament or others like Ilmar Reepalu, former Chairman of the Municipal Board in Malmö, who are investigating and where the documents that are produced are not what they should be. We Members of Parliament and Morgan Johansson and his fellow ministers should be given the basis for decisions that, as far as possible, are free from personal positions and are not coloured by their own political agendas, but provide a basis for the government to decide on and prepare its proposals from the outside. For example, when you appoint Anders Wallner, who for many years has worked and worked hard for the introduction of a free year, and commissions him to investigate what those rules should look like and if there are pros or cons of a free year, it is clear that it will be quite strange. Indeed, it is questionable whether this inquiry meets the demands of independence and constitutional independence. My question remains. Doesn't the government have any self-awareness here? Does the government not see that there is a problem with some of the investigations that are being carried out?
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-59	Mr President, I would like to What is problematic or not depends entirely on the starting point of certain debates. It is clear that Johan Hultberg does not like that we want to limit profits from the welfare sector. Then it is clear that he is opposed to the establishment of such an investigation at all. He would probably have objected to it on the substance, no matter who we had appointed. I explained in my speech about what the picture looks like in terms of the investigations we have. We have currently in the Government Office 193 ongoing investigations. Johan Hultberg has been able to conclude that seven of them are led by politicians. Then, of course, there are parliamentary investigations. But from what I understand, Johan Hultberg does not question them. It is reasonable that there are politicians there. That goes without saying. Of the 193, there is a very small proportion where we use politicians. In my department, I currently have 27 ongoing investigations, one of which is led by Maria Ferm, Member of Parliament. Johan Hultberg retreats in the debate and says: Sometimes it might be good to have such investigators. It is just that the very investigators appointed by this government are not good and that the information given to them is not good. But the ten political investigators to whom I referred in my previous speech, those appointed by Fredrik Reinfeldt's government, were apparently good. The expression comes to mind: What Father does is always the right thing to do. Johan Hultberg was not committed in this House to questioning the appointment of investigations by the bourgeois government. But now that he has his opposition role, he suddenly finds reason to object to it, takes huge words and says that the government undermines confidence in the investigative system. He has not been able to show any evidence whatsoever that the use of political investigators has increased during this period, no evidence whatsoever. He pulls out a few names. Then I can counter that we had about the same picture under the previous government. I can also add two more names for political investigators. One is H G Wessberg, who is responsible for Sweden. Johan Hultberg knows that H G Wessberg was Secretary of State to Fredrik Reinfeldt. When we took office, we kept H.G. Wessberg as a negotiator because we thought he was doing a good job. It was not very common in bourgeois times to allow Social Democratic investigators to continue. But we did it because we thought he was doing a good job. I can add another name: Désirée Pethrus, who is a Christian Democrat. She is now investigating the LSS and is appointed by the government. We have seen investigators, or retained H. G. Wessberg and appointed Désirée Pethrus, not because they are politicians nor because they are bourgeois, but because we believe they can do the job. That's exactly what matters.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-66	Mr President, I would like to I am self-critical enough to admit that there are certainly times in the past when the alliance government made dubious appointments. I can't review all those appointments here. What I am interested in now is to discuss the work of the current government. For it is in the present day that we live. I do not question all the investigations conducted by a person who happens to be connected to day-to-day policy. But I think I see a fairly clear trend that the number is increasing. Mr President, I would like to As I said, it is not only the number of investigators who are interesting in the discussion, but also the issues for which they are responsible. For example, if we take Ilmar Reepalu, it is quite right that Morgan Johansson says it was not an investigation that I wanted to see. I do not want to see the kind of restrictions on free enterprise imposed by the government's proposal to ban profits. I think it is important when such a very controversial issue is investigated that it is investigated by a person who does not go in with his or her own firm opinion from the beginning. It is quite obvious that this investigation was a bit of a farce, Mr President. It is lined with scandals of experts who have criticised the investigation for misinterpreting their evidence, and so on. It is perhaps the most flagrant example of an investigation that is really politically driven and politically established. It is perhaps the most serious example of an investigation that I am concerned about undermines trust in the investigative services. Mr President, I would like to It is a little troubling that Morgan Johansson chooses here to just point his finger at the alliance government and say: You did the same. He is not at all interested in looking at the appointments made and asking himself the question: Can they risk adversely affecting confidence in the investigative services? Can those appointments damage confidence in our democracy?
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-71	Mr President, I would like to Now at the end it got even worse, I guess. Now it is not just a question of confidence in the judiciary, it is also a question of confidence in democracy. That's what you just said, Johan Hultberg. That's when you're almost going to crack. Johan Hultberg says he thinks he sees a trend. He has no evidence of any trend. I've entered ten names and ten investigations. In addition, I had two more which I indicated as political inquiries e. It was another one with H.G. Wessberg that the bourgeois government appointed. Then he has been able to point to seven in this case. I have said that we have 193 ongoing investigations, seven of which are linked to Members of Parliament. I have 27 investigations in total in my department, one of which is conducted by a Member of Parliament. In this debate, Johan Hultberg has not been able to show any trend whatsoever, and to claim that our appointments and our particular missions would undermine confidence in the investigative system, but, on the other hand, the appointments of the bourgeois government are, I believe, more about the position of politics than a factual assessment. As far as Ilmar Reepalus's investigation is concerned, I understand that it is a nail in the eye of the bourgeoisie. I have not seen that it has been edged by any scandals or that any experts speak in this way. There are plenty of self-appointed experts, but what is at issue here is that we have a fairly large industry with a lot of money and who want to keep their money. They are the ones who are now in the debate, while we say that the money to go to school and care for the elderly should actually go there and not to tax havens abroad. It is probably the subject-matter-political discussion that we have rather than the question of the investigative system.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-75	Mr President, I would like to Johan Hultberg has asked me whether I share the view of the chief police officer that the police are alone in vulnerable areas and how I intend to promote better coordination between the police and the municipalities. Johan Hultberg has also asked me how I otherwise intend to work to improve the work and presence of the Political Authority in vulnerable areas in order to increase security there. Finally, Johan Hultberg has asked me when I will honour the promise of more police officers to Växjö in general and Araby in particular. The Head of the National Police has stressed that the problems in vulnerable areas are not just a police matter. I agree with him. Broad and long-term action by society as a whole is needed to tackle crime in these areas. The government has presented a long-term reform programme to strengthen vulnerable areas and reduce segregation in the country. The programme includes actions in a wide range of areas, including law enforcement. The Government has also presented a national crime prevention programme, Together against crime, which emphasises the importance of more actors than the judiciary engaging in crime prevention to make it effective. One of the government's priorities is to strengthen police work in our vulnerable areas and to enable more police officers to combat crime and increase security in these areas. According to the Police Authority, Araby is one of the vulnerable areas that the agency has chosen to prioritise. The Government has previously decided on and announced additions to the Swedish Police Authority of just over SEK 2.7 billion during the period 2017 – 2020. In addition, the Government intends to propose in the 2018 budget proposal additional additions of more than SEK 7 billion to the Swedish Police Authority for the next three years. I will closely monitor how the Authority uses its resource reinforcements. However, it is the Police Authority itself that decides how human resources are allocated.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-81	Mr President, I would like to We have a worrying situation with growing exclusion in Sweden. It is an alienation that is most visible in a number of severely vulnerable areas around Sweden. Previously, these areas were perhaps mainly concentrated around our three major cities, but nowadays they are in virtually every major Swedish city, so also in my own hometown Växjö where we have Araby and Araby Dalbo. The area is socially vulnerable and has a high proportion of residents who depend on benefits and have no self-sufficiency, and exclusion is unfortunately also many times inherited. But I am also pleased to note, Mr President, that a strong local work line really makes a difference. The proportion of Växjö residents who depend on support for their livelihoods is falling, and for the first time the number of households in need of financial assistance is less than a thousand. The determined work of the moderate-led municipality to repress exclusion produces good results, both for the individual who gets a job and for the individual household who will break their dependency on benefits and, of course, also for the municipal economy. Växjö's cost for grants is 800 SEK per inhabitant, which can be compared to S-controlled Malmö where the cost is as much as 2 000 SEK more, i.e. about 2,800 SEK per Malmöbo. Mr President, I would like to I note that the work line at local and national level is absolutely fundamental to breaking exclusion, which is an important basis and root of the problems we see in terms of security and crime in these vulnerable areas. Against this background, the fact that local people in Växjö are doing a great deal to push back exclusion and to support those who live and work in Araby, it was of course provocative when both the chief police officer Dan E liasson and former Home Secretary Anders Ygeman chose to point their finger at Växjö and other municipalities instead of taking responsibility for security, or rather insecurity, in Araby and other vulnerable areas when the police presented their report on the particularly vulnerable areas. When Ygeman and the Prime Minister have visited Växjö, they have taken to quite large words and promised more police officers and that the security of Araby will increase. Now the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs said here that Araby is one of the special areas specifically chosen by the Police Authority to prioritise. Unfortunately, however, Mr President, it is a description that is inconsistent with the data that I have received in contact with police officers and representatives of the local authorities and which is inconsistent with the actual reality on the ground. The police presence in the vulnerable Araby district of Växjö was halved compared to the previous staffing when a special operation was set up in that area. It's deeply troubling. The question is: When will the government fulfil its promises? When will the other police officers who are so badly needed in Araby Dalbo? Växjö Municipality does a lot of things. There has been an effort to push back exclusion, and special efforts are being made on school and leisure activities for young people, not least during the holidays, as there is often more anxiety, on extra field work, parental support and much more. But the police also have to do their job. The police is a government agency for which Morgan Johansson, Minister of Justice and Home Affairs, is ultimately responsible. When are more police coming to Växjö and Araby? And how long is Dan Eliasson allowed to remain in the post of chief of police?
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-89	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say a few words about what Johan Hultberg says about job growth in Växjö. He says that the Moderates in Växjö are on the work line and have managed to fix a situation with many more jobs and fewer dependency in Växjö. Then I want to say that the Moderates in Växjö must be incredibly powerful, because they not only arrange more jobs in Växjö, but they also arrange more jobs in Stockholm, in Gothenburg, in Malmö, in Luleå, in Lund and in Umeå and in almost every municipality in our country. Maybe it's not really connected there, to be honest. It may be that we have national growth that is strong and a labour market that is generally very strong. We have an increasing employment rate of about 200 000 more jobs since we took office and a declining unemployment rate. To link it to Växjö's municipal politician is perhaps to take in a little too much. That's not to say that Växjö's municipal politicians don't do a good job. I think they do, but the job of law enforcement and crime prevention must be done with the police. That is exactly what we have pointed out and is the starting point of our preventive efforts, namely to ensure that police, social services and schools work better together. I have visited many places in the country where I see how that usually works very well, and it certainly does also in Växjö. I think, for example, if you want to break gang crime, you have to do it by the police strengthening their efforts. There are now 15 police officers in Araby who are specifically assigned there and who almost do not work anywhere but in Araby. We must pool our energies in precisely those areas of police resources and combat crime and put in jail the most active individuals, those who often lead these gangs. Then there is often also a tail around these gangs, and there you can work with open social efforts. Then it's a matter for social services. Then social services sometimes need to use LVU, care, to take care of some of the young people who are entering the most serious form of crime. It is therefore in the ngen pointing finger, as Johan Hultberg claimed in his post. It is about getting state resources together with municipal resources in a good way. It is the basis of the new crime prevention programme that we are taking forward. I would like to bring in two more important players, not for us to blame ourselves or to shift power on someone else. I believe that if we are to succeed in this, all forces must pull in the same direction. One of the two actors that we need to involve in prevention is the business community. For example, property owners in many places in our country can make a good effort to increase security in their area. I was in Gothenburg last week and saw how they have worked in Gamlestaden, and I was in Malmö a month ago and looked at how they can work around Sevedplan. It is therefore a question of property owners or the business community in general. It can be about trade unions and such, for example, when it comes to eliminating theft crimes. It's one of them. The second actor is the non-profit sector, which needs to be more clearly involved in prevention. Associations can do much that the authorities can't. With regard to the reinforcement of resources, we will carry out the greatest effort on the police force for at least as far as I can see, and it is still almost 20 years in politics. We will invest more than SEK 7 billion in the Swedish Police Agency in the coming years. We have also started a strong expansion as we expand police training in Sweden.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-96	Mr President, I would like to We certainly have strong economic development in Sweden, as well as in the world economy as a whole. That's very positive. This leads to more jobs being created in Sweden, in Stockholm and of course also in Växjö. I only note that local work, local leadership and local policies based on a strong local work line really make a difference. The cost of grants in Växjö is, as I said, SEK 800 per person, which can be compared to S-controlled Malmö where the cost is SEK 2,800. Local politics and the local work line make a difference, Morgan Johansson. Now I want to go back to the question of the police. The problem is that the municipality is making huge efforts. It allocates large sums and human resources and tries to turn every stone around to ensure that our children and young people have active leisure and meaningful pursuits. Special efforts are being made with Arbetsförmedlingen and the University to ensure that youth unemployment is pushed back and to give new arrivals a quick way into Swedish society with special integration efforts and so on. But for Araby's citizens to be proud and secure in their neighbourhood, more police are needed. Promises have been made after promises. Morgan Johansson is now promising additional resource reinforcements. But we haven't seen the more cops in practice. Morgan Johansson is talking about a special operation with 15 police officers who are just going to work in Araby. Maybe it's true on paper. But in practice, they get the police, the employees, to do much more than be in Araby Dalbo. It's troubling. As a result, the security of Araby is not what it should be. I am extremely sad that every other woman in particularly vulnerable areas feels so insecure that she does not dare to be out in the evenings in her own neighborhood. It is a huge restriction on personal freedom, which I hope and believe we fully agree on. We need to take a strong stand against it. You'll need to tighten up your sentence. A functioning police force is needed and we need to take control of the vulnerable areas where criminal gangs are taking over increasingly. The Moderates have presented a wide range of proposals to introduce a special gang rule, penalties for repeat offenders, a clear increase in ambition for the police and to give the police more opportunities to work with camera surveillance. We also provide funds for more camera surveillance in Araby and other particularly vulnerable areas. However, I note that the police are the basis. And the police need more resources. It assigns the Moderates and the Alliance to their respective budget movements. Mr President, I would like to However, the shortcomings of the police are not just a matter of resource scarcity. It is also a matter of leadership. It's a pretty poorly functioning authority right now. We see that a stream of employees is leaving the police profession. We see that the results of the investigation are the lowest in 15 to 16 years. We are faced with appalling reports that rape crimes against children are not investigated urgently and so on. Then you have to deal with the leadership problem. It is high time Morgan Johansson removed the chief of police, Dan Eliasson.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-105	Mr President, I would like to We must fight both the crimes and the causes of the crimes. I think that Johan Hultberg and I agree on that. As I was in my previous post, it is precisely about the police doing their part, that is, making sure to investigate crimes, arrest the most active individuals and in that way put an end to that development. Then you can work with social work against those who may be going into crime. Basically, we must also have good economic development, which we certainly also agree on. We now have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 14 years. This means that many young people who might otherwise have risked becoming in trouble suddenly have completely different conditions for both education and getting a job. We can struggle about who has made sure that it has been done that way. I can only say that the conditions are now better than in many years for young people to get a job. And that applies all over the country. As far as law enforcement is concerned, we need to do some punitive work. We're about to tighten up on the serious weapons crimes. We have just left a legislative referral, and the proposal then comes to Parliament. We tighten the penalty in such a way that we ensure that those who are found with weapons and convicted of serious gun crimes are in prison longer. But we also get a presumption of detention, that is, they will not come out on the street again in anticipation of trial, but they will be in custody during that time. We are moving forward with the largest resource enhancement carried out over the last 20 years, regardless of whether the government has been red, red green or blue. That's what we're going to do. SEK 2 billion more for the police is more than the Moderates suggested in their spring exercise. It's more than the police themselves have wanted. So there will be another 2 billion already next year. We're also taking up police training. Mr President, I would like to There are certain things that the Moderates and the bourgeois never do when they are in government. One is that they never make it through public finances. There are always deficits when we take office. The second is that they never do the jobs. Unemployment is always increasing. And the third thing they never do is they never start any new police training. That's it. We once had a police training course in Stockholm. You put it down for three years in the 90s when you had run the state finances in the bottom, Johan Hultberg. We restarted it in the mid-90s. Then we started police training in Växjö and in Umeå. Now we will start a new police training course in Malmö and one in West Sweden. During your reign, you trained approximately 600 to 700 police officers per year. It is far too little, because we have retirements of just over 400 per year. Policemen also have an alternative labour market these days. Many private employers get carried away by the police and want them to move to that sector. This means having a much higher rate of education than in the past. That is why we have doubled the number now entering police training. My question to Johan Hultberg is: If you want more policemen, why didn't you see to it that you trained more during your time? It takes two and a half years to train a cop. Those who are being trained now, by making sure to expand the training courses, will be out in a couple of years. Then we will see the increase. We want 10,000 more police employees, overall, by 2024. But then we need to be prepared to set up resources, start new training courses and finance it. We think it is more important to do so than to give priority to what you always do in government, i.e. tax cuts.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-115	Mr President, I would like to The Minister for Justice and Home Affairs is trying to mix the cards away a little bit and does not take responsibility for being ultimately responsible for a police authority that is not delivering very good results. It has received strong resource reinforcements and grants to hire more but delivers less and less. It's not just a resource issue. The Moderates and the Alliance are pushing for additional resource reinforcements to increase the number of police officers and to increase the number of employees in the agency, including civilians. In fact, however, we must also ask the police authorities to deliver more with the funds and resources they already have. Ultimately, it is a matter of leadership. We see that the agency does not work very well, that the dissatisfaction among employees is great and that many, just as Morgan Johansson said, choose to seek an alternative labour market because they do not thrive well enough with the Police Authority. They may not feel seen or feel that their pay is high enough or that the work environment is generally good enough. Morgan Johansson has a responsibility for this. Morgan Johansson has his chief of police to carry this out. I think it's obvious – the Moderates think it's obvious – that the chief police officer has not been able to carry out the reorganisation that the police are in the middle of in a sufficiently good way and that a new leadership is required. The Moderates really take the issues of security very seriously. Växjö municipality does everything possible to meet the problems in Växjö municipality. But we need the help of the police. The Moderates are pushing for more police officers, for punitive measures and for all bluelight personnel and all personnel working in emergency services, in emergency departments and so on to feel safe. We also propose that the police should be given more tools in the fight against gang crime and organised crime. We believe, for example, that camera monitoring is important in the particularly vulnerable areas and propose regulatory simplifications in relation to it and specific appropriations. When will the government follow up on these proposals, and when will there be more police officers?
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-120	Mr President, I would like to On the last question, on camera surveillance, I have an investigation proposal that came to me this spring – the referral period has just expired. We will go to the Riksdag with a bill that will increase the possibilities for camera surveillance. Nor was this something that the bourgeois government was ever able to take on. We're the ones who are doing it. The same is true of the penalties that are now being spoken of. During this period, we have tightened the penalties for serious violent crimes, aggravated assault, gross blackmail and gross illegal threats. We've tightened the penalties for the most serious drug crimes. We are about to tighten the penalties for the serious weapons crimes. I would like to say that there is probably no government that has been on criminal law as this government has done. But that's not enough. It doesn't matter how severe your punishment is if you don't also catch criminals. Then it is important to ensure that you have the resources and tools that you need in the police in order to break the development. That is why we are going in with these vast resources. They will go to hiring more, of course. That is now about 30,000 overall in the Police Department. This will go to hiring more, but it will also go to improving the working conditions of police and police workers. We have given a special assignment to the Police Authority to report back to me in January. If we are to ensure that this development persists, we must ensure that we train more people but also keep more people in the organisation. I saw that there are now a large number of police officers who have been outside the Police Authority who are heading back into the Police Authority – it is in that case very gratifying – as a result of a campaign that has been conducted. With all that we are doing now, I think we will see a much better situation in the coming years in this area too.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-125	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked me who will be responsible nationally for dealing with so-called IS returnees and what new stricter rules, which are not already in force today, will be introduced against the people on the Security Service's list. Furthermore, Roger Haddad has asked whether all returnees should be subject to mandatory judicial review and, finally, what other measures the government is taking to address the problem of domestic extremism. Terrorism must be combated wherever it occurs. Persons involved in the brutal terror in Syria and Iraq shall be prosecuted and punished. The main responsibility for combating terrorist crime lies with the Security Service. Other authorities with central roles, such as the Police Authority and the Migration Agency, work closely with the Swedish Security Service. Repressing the causes of crime and strengthening respect for our fundamental rights and freedoms requires the efforts of society as a whole. The government has reached two cross-block agreements on a series of measures that strengthened the fight against terrorism, including through the criminalisation of terrorist travel, strengthened rules on terrorist financing and enhanced prevention. Criminal law regulation will be further strengthened. An investigator will propose in December a special criminal liability for participation in a terrorist organisation. Work on the proposals will be given high priority. At the same time, the implementation of the EU Terrorism Directive will extend the criminal liability of, for example, terrorism training, travel and funding. At the government's initiative, the whole of the criminal law on terrorism is now being reviewed. More transparent and clear legislation provides better conditions for combating terrorist crime while increasing legal certainty. The Government has also taken a number of other initiatives aimed at improving the conditions for preventing and preventing violent extremism and terrorism, such as more effective cooperation and exchange of information between authorities and municipalities receiving returnees. With regard to the actions of the judiciary in relation to returnees, it is up to the authorities responsible to decide whether, on what grounds and how an individual should become involved in the judicial intervention. Returners are not a homogeneous group but must be handled on the basis of individual assessments. The Security Service assesses all returnees known to the Authority. The government has a clear focus on preventing violent extremism and terrorism. A significant effort will be made through the establishment of a new permanent centre for prevention from 1 January 2018. The Government has also decided on a number of assignments aimed at increasing knowledge in general and improving the guidance of public authorities to various staff groups. Among other things, the National Board of Health and Welfare has been commissioned to develop a national guide for the work of social services with returnees and their families. The government has gradually increased the financial resources for police operations and the Security Service and is now making a historic effort at the Police Authority. As the government has recently announced, in this autumn's budget proposal for 2018 we will propose an increase in resources to the Swedish Police Agency of a total of SEK 7.1 billion over the next three years. Efforts are being made to increase the impact of law enforcement in general, but also to create the conditions for improving the capacity to respond to the threat of terrorism.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-131	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to thank Minister Morgan Johansson for the answer to my interpellation. It is submitted after the Government's participation in an element at the beginning of August, as a newly appointed minister responsible for terrorism, but also police issues. We could hear in the element that the government has taken or will immediately take the decision to strengthen the measures against returnees who have fought for the Islamic State. But it also emerged from the element, Mr President, that the government wants to increase national coordination for IS returnees, not least in the case of defectors. It is against this background that we again come to Parliament and ask questions to the government about the handling of those who have supported or even fought for terrorist organisations such as the Islamic State and who return to Swedish society. The second part of the interpellation, where I also do not get very clear answers, Mr President, concerns the work against domestic extremism. It is a very widespread problem. It is a growing problem and an increased threat picture, according to the Swedish Security Service's new reports that came as late as July. In a few years it has gone from 200 to 2 000 people who in various ways are considered to sympathize with, support, finance and call for violent Islamist extremism. It's extremely serious. We from the Liberals have really tried to be constructive in the terrorist talks mentioned – both in 2015 and, most recently, in spring 2017. But not everything has worked in parallel when it comes to working against extremism. There have been criticisms and views on the national support telephone against radicalisation. We have really pushed the question of the exchange of information between the Security Service and municipalities from the Liberals. There the government said no to our proposal exactly a year ago. But now we know that this is one of the points that was investigated by the agreement that was concluded here in June 2017. We have also seen that neither national coordination nor coordination within the government seems to have worked in the fight against extremism. It has been a responsibility for the Ministry of Justice and the two ministers who are now a minister of state, and for the Minister of Culture and Democracy, who until the end of the year is officially responsible for managing the preventive work against violent extremism. It is extremely serious that the government is still unable to give a clear message about coordination. What is the new one to be coordinated? After all, I ask the Government: who will be responsible nationally for dealing with IS-returners, for example? I don't get an answer to that. Who will handle the work against extremism? There is nothing about it in the answer, but I know that the government wants to put that question on the Crime Prevention Council. I will come back to this because there are points of view and other critical points have also been made on that proposal.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-138	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I would like to say that this government has done more to prevent and combat terrorism in our three years than the previous government did in its eight. I still remember very well the 2014 election campaign when you walked forward and promised that you would criminalize terrorist travel. When we came up to the Department in 2014, I asked the officials what had been done so far in criminalising terrorist travel. My officials were embarrassed, may I say, because there was not a paper written. Why? It was not their fault, but it was because they had not received any commissions from any minister, either at the Ministry of Justice or elsewhere, to start working on such legislation. There was, of course, no investigation, no investigation directive – there was not even a draft investigation directive. There were no papers written, so we had to start from the beginning. At that time, the war in Syria had been going on since 2011, and the peak of the number of people who went abroad to fight for IS appeared in 2013 – 2014. That's when the most traveled. Since then it has slowed down considerably and now almost ceased, I would say. At the time of the Liberals in the government, it was thus allowed to go abroad to commit terrorist crimes. At the time of the Liberals in the government, it was allowed to receive terrorist training, because that gap was not clogged either. Nor did we have a comprehensive stop in the financing of terrorism. All of this we have now addressed through legislation. Roger Haddad brings up the returnees but does not seem to understand how Säpo works. I am telling you in my reply that Mr Säpo is carrying out such a review of all those who are coming back. Of course, if you can find an opportunity to convict them for crimes, you can. Then you open a preliminary investigation and go to the prosecutor and court with it. It is therefore the responsibility of Säpo to do this review for each individual, and also to make use of the control possibilities available to each individual. As I said, in practice travel has stopped, and there are many different reasons. Criminalisation can be a part of it, but above all, it is probably that the war has developed in such a way that IS is repressed, which of course is good. However, this does not mean that the danger is in any way over. On the contrary, I would say: it may well be that those who return are real risks. That is why it is important for Säpo to do what they are supposed to do, and I will say that I have full confidence in the work of the Security Service and that they have the tools that they need when it comes to the returnees. Do we need to do anything else? Yeah. We have a cross-block agreement in which we have come up with a number of additional measures, including further extending criminal law. It is about the crime of participation, on which I am receiving an investigation proposal now in December, with an increased criminalisation of this too. There is also an ongoing investigation into signal reconnaissance during preliminary investigation, and it is also about developing the tools for the Security Service. Secret data reading is currently being investigated and is also an issue that helps to detect this type of crime early on. It is also a question of prevention, and I will come back to that.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-148	Mr President, I would like to As far as terrorist financing, recruitment and appeal are concerned, it has already been criminalised. It's nothing new. I can't feel content. We have had a single verdict on terrorist financing, and that was 2005. Daily I read on text television and in other media about suspected terrorist financing and so on, but so far we have not received any new judgments on this issue since 2005. So that legislation already existed. What has been added is the binding decision of the UN Security Council to criminalise terrorist travel. That's why we've been criminalizing terrorist travel. Mr President, I would like to The government is not answering my question. Who will be responsible nationally for managing IS-returners in Sweden? I want a message today! That is my question number one in this interpellation, and that is why I am coming to this House today. I want answers to who should be responsible nationally for dealing with IS returners. I'm not getting any news. If it's the Secret Service, say it! If it's the Swedish Civil Protection Agency, say so! If it's the police, say it! At the beginning of August, the government went out forcefully in Aktuellt and said that they want a coordinating function nationally against the defectors– who should be responsible for that? There is nothing in the written answer, and there is nothing in the oral speeches. Answer the questions you have been asked, Minister, instead of telling me who has been working on these questions for eight years what you have done and have not done! As far as extremism is concerned, the Government does not comment on this issue at all. In 2010, there were 200 people at risk who showed sympathy for violent Islamist extremism. There are now 2 000 people, and this section does not comment on the new Minister for the Interior, who is responsible for these matters. It's not satisfying. I have also seen in the media today that there has been criticism of the so-called knowledge centres, which will work in four locations with method development and to support the municipalities in their work against extremism. There are positive comments on method development, but the criticism was that there is just too little connection and cooperation with the main authorities, namely the police and the Security Service. Unlike the government, the Liberals do not believe that these issues should be placed on the Crime Prevention Council; we see first of all that it is a matter for the police, with the police infrastructure and the regional and local presence of the police under these sections, which have competence, information and proximity to the citizens. These are municipal policemen and district police officers, who, of course, receive the first daily indicators of whether someone is engaged in violent activities such as recruitment, funding or exhortation. But the government, as I understand it, has already decided that it should be on the Crime Prevention Council. Again, I would like answers to my questions.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-158	Mr President, I would like to Actually, I don't really understand the high tone. I have told you that the IS-returns that come back to Sweden are the responsibility of the Swedish Security Service. It is the responsibility of the Security Service to see if there are any crimes that need to be investigated in connection with this. If you discover it and have any opportunity to have a person convicted of it, then of course you go to court with it. The problem was that some of these travelled before we had criminalised terrorist trips. They travelled in the time of the bourgeois government, when it was not criminalised, and it is clear that people cannot be punished afterwards precisely in relation to that crime. It's not working. Terrorist travel is not just about the UN resolution, it was actually about an own initiative that we took. We pursued this in the election movement, and in contrast to the bourgeois government we carried it out as well. We criminalized terrorist travel and receiving education. It's really weird that they weren't there before. Nor was it something that the bourgeois government took hold of. We developed a more comprehensive criminalisation of terrorist financing in line with FATF recommendations – an international body that monitors these issues. The Government has continuously worked to further strengthen the ability of the Swedish Security Service and the open police. In this year's budget, we will reinforce the Security Service with additional funds. For 2017 – 2020 we strengthen the Swedish Security Service with a total of over SEK 200 million. It's about making sure they have the resources they need. In line with our settlements, I have said that the government is looking at further issues, such as participation crimes and signal reconnaissance during pre-trial investigations. We have just put forward proposals that improve the exchange of information within the framework of what we call the National Centre for Terrorist Threat Assessment with, among other things, direct access. It has long been an urgent matter. We also review the confidentiality rules between the police and social services. They have also been up for discussion. Does the municipality receive the information you need in relation to such individuals? It works differently in different directions. There is a review. Roger Haddad has asked questions about the Crime Prevention Council and the National Coordinator. In his first speech, he criticised the government for the fact that this issue was at the Ministry of Culture. Oh, my God, Mr President, it was the old government that put the mission at the Ministry of Culture! It wasn't us. We are now taking the question to the Justice Department. Why? Because we regard violent extremism as primarily a crime issue. Then it should be in the Department of Justice. It is the Justitiedepar tement that has the habit of dealing with issues of crime and has the tools. The Ministry of Justice has the police, the Correctional Services, the Crime Prevention Council. The authority is in the departmental authorities. I don't understand why you put the question at the Department of Culture, but now it's transferred to the Department of Justice. We have put the matter to one of our authorities, namely the authority that has a new mission to be much more operational than before. During the bourgeois period, it was a lot about analysing. We have now given the Crime Prevention Council a more operational mandate for preventing crime than before, including in the light of the new national crime prevention programme.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-166	Mr President, I would like to First, a correction: that is not true. Minister for European Affairs and Democracy Birgitta Ohlsson was in the Ministry of Justice. She was the one who set up the National Coordinator against violent extremism. Then there was a change of power, and in your government the Minister of Culture and Democracy awarded this portfolio. That's why the question ended up at the Department of Culture. Don't come to the chamber with me. As regards the issue of the Crime Prevention Council and the IS returnees, I note that in principle, with the exception of a case in Gothenburg that was not discovered by Säpo but by the Skaraborg police, no one is in prison. Most people who come back are not considered to have committed a crime. At least the prosecutor's office has no way of proving that they have committed terrorist offences. They're out in the community. Once again, I would argue that the Minister of Justice and Home Affairs is completely failing to answer my real question. It is not the responsibility of the Security Service when those persons are no longer subject to the responsibility of Säpo. Then they would have been prosecuted and convicted. There's someone else. That is why we are having the debate today, Mr President-in-Office of the Council. Who's anyone else? I have honest aims, and I would like to know how the government intends the overall national responsibility in the light of the fact that it has not worked. If it had been a question of Säpo, they would make an assessment of the people and then pass them on in the legal chain. But they're not there. They're out in the community. Who is responsible for them?
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-170	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad is right, of course, that the questions were put to the Minister for Democracy. That's right. But the bottom line of my criticism was that the questions were not put to a minister who was actually also responsible for law enforcement and crime prevention issues. That's the connection that's important. This is not basically a question of democracy, as I see it. This is basically about combating crime. That's what violent extremism is all about. Now the question is placed in the right place. It seems that Roger Haddad is really eager to misunderstand things. It is the Security Police that is responsible for IS returnees. If it can be demonstrated that they have committed crimes, they should be prosecuted and convicted for it. Then it is important that there is a workable criminalisation of the documents. Now the government has extended the criminalisation, and now there is an investigation on top of it to look further at the issues of participation in crime. We will hopefully have more opportunities to shed more. The image Roger Haddad is trying to show, namely that there is no one responsible for the issues, is not correct. Of course, this is not easy. It is enough that only one or two decide to commit a crime. They can, by simple means, commit extremely serious attacks. In terms of the number of violent extremists overall, the Swedish Security Service is talking about about 3 000 in Sweden, of which 2 000 are Islamists. The other thousand are Nazis or violent left-wing radicals. Only a few of them are said to have the intention and ability to commit attacks. It's bad. As I said, just one or two individuals is enough to cause a lot of damage.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-177	Mr President, I would like to Barbro Westerholm has asked me what I and the government are doing to make healthcare professionals and patients feel safe in emergency rooms. I would like to begin by agreeing that healthcare should be a safe place for everyone who is there. No employee should have to endure threats or violence at their workplace, and the government has invested more than SEK 100 million per year in the field of health and safety at work during its term of office. On 27 September, I and Minister of Social Affairs Annika Strandhäll invited representatives of the county councils, relevant trade unions and the Police Authority to a conversation to gather knowledge about the safety of hospitals and discuss what the government can do to increase this. As Barbro Westerholm noted, the Government has set up an investigation tasked with considering and proposing the changes needed to achieve modern criminal law protection for bluelight personnel and other societal functions, such as health professionals. I would like to emphasise that there is already criminal law protection for hospital staff in the area of threats and violence. The penalties for serious violent crimes and for gross illegal threats were tightened as late as mid-2017. The Bluelight investigation shall consider the penalties that are needed in addition to these. In terms of resources for the judiciary, and in particular the Police Authority, the Government has previously decided and announced additions to the Police Authority of more than SEK 2.7 billion during the period 2017– 2020. In addition, the Government intends to propose in the 2018 budget proposal additional additions of more than SEK 7 billion to the Swedish Police Authority in the coming years. I will, of course, closely monitor how the authority uses its resource enhancements, and I look forward to hearing the Bluelight investigation's proposals.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-184	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for your answer. Violence and abuse in healthcare and in emergency rooms is nothing new. When I was a junior doctor in the late 50's and in the early 60's this occurred on and off. It was addicts or people with psychosis who were exposed to. At some receptions there was a security guard who could intervene. But the violence we see today is of a completely different nature. We have read that at Karolinska Hospital staff had to lock themselves in and patients moved. Assaults entered the wards. This is a completely different situation. Then it is not an perpetrator, but a whole group of perpetrators. It is good that blue light investigation and punishment and such things are on the agenda. The meeting to be held – I think it's September 27 – with SKL and trade unions is also good. Punishment and all that in all honor, but the staff must know how to act. So we must try to prevent it. The Medical Association has conducted a survey among its members, and it turns out that a quarter of respondents have been accused of violence and abuse. 70 percent say that they have not received any information or training on how to deal with this situation. And then I'm just talking about the medical profession-- I don't have any information from health care associations or from other professionals serving in the clinics about what they know. The Medical Association has now developed a guide to help doctors deal with these situations. But it is an entire team that is present at receptions and departments that probably need to work together to deal with the situation. It also addresses who should report. Many people who have stood there on the floor are so shaken that it is not because they report. It must be clear that it is the employer who has a responsibility to report to the police what has happened, and that applies to all working groups that have been exposed. My question is really about the agenda at the meeting on 27 September and who is coming, because I think this is something that needs to be addressed broadly.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-192	Mr President, I would like to I think that is quite right, what Barbro Westerholm says: This is not a new question, but it has a different character than it might have had 20, 30 or 40 years ago. It looks completely different that way. I also believe that we fully agree that everyone must be able to feel safe at their place of work. I can be furious when I see and hear about people throwing stones at cops, fire brigades, ambulances coming out to protect, help and save lives. Then it says people attacking them. Or, as far as the health care section is concerned, when I hear about professional criteria that get into the emergency room to threaten the staff or even professional criteria that have been shot who have no sense to feel the slightest gratitude to those who care for them and who actually help them and save their lives. On the contrary, they can often show hatred and contempt and may even threaten a nurse or an ambulance nurse. That is totally unacceptable. This has to be met in a number of ways. One way is, of course, the general fight against crime. Here we cannot put our fingers between – those who work in these professions must feel the support of the rest of society. This is achieved, among other things, by criminal law. As I say in the interpellation response, Annika Strandhäll and I have called a meeting on 27 September. It will be with the trade unions, SKL and representatives of some of the county councils and the police. That's what the lineup will look like. We will discuss both criminal law – it will be my part of it – and the police's priorities. For my part, it is important to say that the basis for this must be a good cooperation between the police and the healthcare system locally. I know that there are many places, including in Malmö where they have had it for a long time. But the readiness for the police to stand up when it is really needed must always be there to pull out and protect, for example, the fire department but also to pull out to medical care if needed. We also need to strengthen criminal protection. There we have commissioned the Prosecutor General, Anders Perklev, to review the protection of criminal law. Preventing people from saving lives is an extremely serious crime, and it must be expressed in legislation. It must be expressed in the scale of punishment. There must be a great deal of punishment when you do this. I also believe that if we do that, we will take some of the most crime-active individuals that we still need to take, because they are active in many ways – they lead the criminal gangs and so on. Then we'll have the opportunity, so to speak, to lock them up on it. But Anders Perklev has a wider assignment. It's about attacks not only on people but also on equipment – stoning against cars is one of those things. Police horses and dogs are also included in his mission. He's going to look at what criminal law should look like there. It is also a question of reviewing what criminal law should look like when threatening or attacking staff who practice their profession, such as health professionals. It can also be about social services in certain areas, home care and such activities. Anders Perklev thus has a broad mission. I met him on Wednesday and I went through it. I think it looks really good, what he will come up with.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-200	Mr President, I would like to I think we are touchingly agreed that preventing someone from saving lives is one of the most serious crimes you can see. When a caregiver is prevented in this, it also becomes difficult in the profession, so this really needs to be addressed. It was good that you mentioned social services and home services, Morgan Johansson, because the situation there is similar even if there has not been anything as sensational as that at Karolinska. There is also a role for the National Board of Health and Welfare. I did not hear that the National Board of Health and Welfare was on the 27 September list, but I think it is important that social services are included. As far as general law enforcement is concerned, I come on a slightly different track. In the 1980s, the World Health Organisation clearly stated how important it is for people to feel good that they feel they are needed. Two risk groups were seen: one was people who were forced out of work because of their chronological age. The second was unemployed young men who were thus in danger of falling into crime. I think this is something extremely important, because it is young criminals who are causing this in the emergency rooms. They must be found early, for if they feel that they are not needed in ordinary society and feel needed in the criminal gangs, it is no wonder that they are going there and receiving applause within the gang for the mines they cause. We have to catch these young men on time. So we have known about this for quite some time, but we lived in a bit of a sörgårdsmiljö in Sweden when this came. Many young men do not feel they are needed. Then they make their own lives, and they make a mess for many others. Any comments on that, perhaps?
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-206	Mr President, I would like to I guess we'll have to talk about the layout of the meeting, Annika Strandhäll and I. Maybe we should add the National Board of Health and Welfare there?
i-SZdBT5AwCr9GjDvw3JG9Nm	Right? ) Then we do so that we are fully covered also in the area of home and social services. I think that is incredibly important to cover the wider picture, the one that Barbro Westerholm was at the end. We have had a development in Sweden over the last 20 to 25 years that organised crime has been stuck in our country in a way that was not the case when I grew up in the 70s and 80s. Something happened in the early 1990s that has not really been dealt with. There are many different reasons for this. I cannot go into them all, but it is clear that one has been a social situation which has meant that we have had very high unemployment in the youth group during periods. We have also had growing gaps between the poorest and the richest. And we have had a welfare system that has not really been able to get to this. In addition, we have had some political changes that have meant that the gaps have increased even more. One of the perhaps most important tasks we have is to ensure that these gaps can be brought down, within the framework of welfare and economic policy. That is the basis: we must have a policy that works. We need to reverse the trend in unemployment. Now we have the lowest youth unemployment rate in 14 years, and this means that the group of young people who may be at risk of this type of problem is, after all, in a better position now than they have in a very long time. It is also a question of ensuring that they have access to training and go that way instead. I often quote Zlatan's book. He writes in one place that many people ask what he would have done if he hadn't been able to play football-- maybe he would have been a criminal. You can also understand this when you read about the childhood he has had and about some of his friends, who have gone wrong. For himself he steals bicycles or other things when he does not play football. That's the picture you get in the book. To break up the criminal gangs, you have to do at least two things. One is that you have to take care of those who lead the gangs and are the most criminal. You have to put them away, that's all. They cannot continue to work, partly because they interfere with all preventive work and commit many crimes, and partly because they are actually role models for some of the young people who are going into crime. There we have tightened up the legislation on a wide range of points. We are now moving forward with more stringent penalties for the serious weapons crimes. This also means a detention presumption: If you are found with weapons in town, you will not come out again in anticipation of trial. I think that is an important side effect of this. Then, in addition to the more repressive and law enforcement elements, we must have thought-out social work. Often it is the case that the leaders of the gangs, with law enforcement instruments or with the help of LVU legislation, must be dealt with first in the case of very young people. I also think that we must be more active and take care of the most active young people. Once you have done so, you can walk on your tail, i.e. those who are going into crime and can be much younger. In this way, open social action can be directed at them and their families. That is, in my view, how we are doing to break this trend.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-216	Mr President, I would like to The purpose of this interpellation was to raise the issue of violence and abuse in healthcare, but to broaden it not only to deal with punishment and blue lights but also to equip the vulnerable staff to deal with situations wisely. However, it is also about how we can move forward and prevent. I look forward to the outcome of your discussions on 27 September.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-217	Mr President, I would like to I see in front of me that it is about law enforcement, good cooperation between police and health care and social work to break up gangs, and of course also about how to deal with this in health care, including the issue of registration. Who's making the complaint? Maybe you're pulling out of jail because you're afraid to stand there with your name? That is the kind of question that I think we should talk about. There is a lot to do about this situation. I think we are all very upset when we get news of how stone is thrown or how pure gangsters, as it really is, behave against our medical staff, our police, home and social services. We will have to do everything we can to remedy this.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-219	Mr President, I would like to Mr Rothenberg has asked me what measures I intend to take to deal with the consequences of the Supreme Administrative Court's judgment of 20 June 2017 in Case No 278-17 concerning the taxation of board fees. Hans Rothenberg fears that the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation of the judgment will make it more difficult and costly for SMEs that take external expertise into the board and contribute to reducing the companies' growth and development. Under the Swedish Companies Act, a member of the Board of Directors may only be held by one natural person. For this reason, board assignments in practice have been considered to be personal assignments that are normally to be taxed as income from the service of the person performing the duties. Only under certain special conditions has taxation been considered to be possible in the business income category. In that decision, the Supreme Administrative Court has held that the legal situation regarding the taxation of board fees has not changed as a result of the amendment of the law on the concept of business conduct made in 2009 in Chapter 13. Section 1 of the Income Tax Act. According to the Supreme Administrative Court, that provision aims at circumstances other than those that have been the governing body in practice regarding the taxation of directors' fees, i.e. that the Companies Act gives the board a special and personal character. The fact that the Board fees as a general rule constitute income from the service thus remains valid, according to the judgment of the Supreme Administrative Court. However, the judgment has led to a change in how the Swedish Tax Agency believes the rules should be interpreted. Since 2009, the Swedish Tax Agency has considered that work as a board member, which is not attributable to own or related persons' ownership in the company, should be able to constitute an economic activity, either as part of an ongoing consultancy activity or as an activity of its own, if at least three such assignments are present on an ongoing basis. The Swedish Tax Agency now considers that the Board fees should normally be taxed as income from services. Predictable and legally secure legislation is important. Visibility and transparency of the tax system is also a prerequisite for a well-functioning economy and for jobs and increased employment. Several international studies show that the companies in Sweden have very good conditions and framework conditions in relation to the outside world. I intend to closely monitor developments in business as a result of the judgment.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-224	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. On 20 June 2017, the Supreme Administrative Court ruled in a judgment that the board fee cannot be replaced by an invoice but must be paid as salary. The Tax Agency then changed its practice, and the business concept introduced in 2009 no longer applies. Since 2009, Swedish companies have been able to hire experienced board workers and pay the fee by invoice. But this is no longer the case. The Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation of the judgment makes it more difficult and costly for small and medium-sized companies that take external expertise into the board. It removes an entire industry, and it reduces the number of entrepreneurs. The opportunity and willingness to bring experienced external expertise into the board will be reduced, while fewer are now given the opportunity to devote themselves full-time and professionally to contributing to the growth and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is clear, Mr President, that boardwork is a profession. It is essential that we have people who have experience and can have several assignments in parallel. For a sustained and improved welfare, Sweden needs entrepreneurs and people who want, dare and can start businesses – companies that grow and hire people, buy and sell goods and services, both within and outside the country, and pay taxes and fees. Mr President, I would like to The new order does not solve any problems, as the problems do not exist. For Sweden's sake, we need to think bigger, on the whole. The fact that an individual judgment will affect all Swedish limited liability companies and more or less wipe out an entire industry is narrow, and there is no balance between the pros and cons of the decision. Creating the conditions for Swedish companies to grow and become more makes sense. So let business owners hire competent and experienced board workers, and let board workers do business with F-tax bill and invoice! I have listened to the Minister's reply and I read the written answer yesterday. I note that the last sentence, which is actually the answer, reads: It was not really an answer to my question, which was what measures the Minister intends to take to deal with the consequences of the judgment. I find it a little remarkable that the Minister does not give a clearer answer about something that affects small and medium-sized companies and affects the people who work as directors of companies. I would like to ask two questions so that we can move forward in the discussion. Does the Minister see any problem with the Supreme Administrative Court's decision? Is it unproblematic, I can understand the answer, but does the Minister see a problem? The following question is: If the Minister sees a problem, how does the Minister intend to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to recruit management skills in the future?
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-231	Mr President, I would like to I thank the interpellant for the discussion. I go back to the legislative change that took place in 2009 and start there. There was a change in the business concept of the Income Tax Act. It did not aim to change the legal position regarding the taxation of board fees; that was not how the bill was written. We can start there. Then the Swedish Tax Agency still made an interpretation of it – that it could mean that one could work in this new way after 2009. Now the Supreme Administrative Court has ruled on the matter and said that since the Companies Act stipulates that people on a board of directors also have personal responsibility in that mandate, it should be taxed differently. It shall be taxed as a natural person. I would like to ask you a question back. Have I misread the legislative work – was this the purpose of the legislation presented in 2009? If you are going to make changes in this way of working, I believe that the Moderates and we agree that you should have legislation that is clear, legally sound and well thought out. My question is therefore whether the Moderates have taken a stand to amend the Companies Act. Does this also mean that you do not want it to be personal responsibility on the boards of limited liability companies? It's kind of a basic requirement. Then I would like to say that this is a change of interpretation. It will have some effects. I hope and believe that the effects are not as dramatic as Mr Rothenberg describes them. I would like to say that we are taking a serious look at this debate! The image we have of not least small and medium-sized enterprises in Sweden today is incredibly positive. I took note of the largest survey for small businesses in Sweden since the 1990s, if I am right, the Small Business Barometer. It shows that the small business boom is very strong in Sweden. Nine out of ten small businesses want to grow, and seven out of ten small businesses see good conditions to expand in Sweden. It is therefore a slightly different picture from the fact that an entire industry would fail. With regard to the challenges facing small businesses, I think it is quite correct that it is important, not least for start-ups, to have good competence on the board of directors. I often talk about capital as an important part, but knowledge is just as important in small businesses – having smart capital. Then it is important to get experienced people into the board work or other parts of the company, so that you can expand and make the right decisions. I assume that small businesses will continue to have a great interest in doing this, in order to have economically good development. So I think we need to put it in perspective. The biggest challenge for small companies at the moment, as the survey showed, is that four out of ten companies have declined orders recently, precisely because it is difficult to recruit the right staff for their company. The government is making a huge investment in educational activities to match the Swedish labour market, and I hope that will have a large and positive impact on the development of small businesses in the future.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-238	Mr President, I would like to The fact that four out of ten companies find it difficult to recruit staff is not an argument for it to be more difficult to recruit board skills. There will be less interest from professional board workers to work on boards. Companies need people who have several assignments in parallel in order to reduce risk and share experiences between the different companies and assignments. In fact, this also means increased costs for these companies. Current companies that want to retain their paid members will have to pay more and thus also have increased board costs. I can answer the minister's question. The change made in 2009 can be quite easy to make, and the industry has now become accustomed to being able to invoice and that clients, i.e. owners of the companies, who recruit board staff can spend money on other things than on the board. If we change back now, this will be more expensive. The owners of small and medium-sized companies, especially those who are growing and need to use this expertise, will then have to pay more. It may be that you have to reduce the board. You may go from a board of six to a board of five, and then you lose a person's skills. This is a negative thing that we must take into account. I was a little surprised that the Minister did not answer whether this is a problem or not. It is an obvious problem if it becomes more expensive for small companies to recruit board staff and if people who would be willing to take this type of assignment decline because it becomes complicated. I would like to highlight a different perspective, and that is working conditions. If it is the case that a board member is to be regarded as an employee of a company and is also on the board of several companies, who is the main employer? How are holiday conditions handled? How is LAS handled linked to employees – is it last in, first out that applies, or what applies in that context? How are the employees, i.e. the board member, dealt with in the event of cuts? It is a pretty good order that a board member can invoice and stand a little side by side with the usual management. It can also be seen this way: An auditor is chosen by the owners to perform regular briefings for the owners and the board. A board is on the same basis chosen by the owners to be the client of the CEO and the management of the company. What is it in the nature of the assignments that differs between the member and the auditor that allows the auditor to invoice but the board member cannot do so? I'll come back to what I said in the beginning. Here we have a solution to which we do not have a problem. If there is no problem but the solution creates problems, it would be quite reasonable to go back and say that you have to look at this. In fact, I would have expected that answer from the Minister, that is to say that the Government notes that this has become more problematic than could have been expected and that it intends to review the conditions for making a change in law and review the rules for the Swedish Tax Agency to be able to make a different interpretation. I would have thought that was a good answer. I am a little surprised to see just the circumstances and see what the development will be like.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-246	Mr President, I would like to It is true that small and, not least, fast-growing companies are in need of senior or other external skills, which are not operational in the company. There is no doubt about that. This is an important point when it comes to the future development of the companies, which I often make when I meet these companies. But that Council also has no doubt that it is important for companies – both for starters and for those who grow – that there is predictable legislation. That is what is at the heart of this issue, because now we are talking about the Swedish Tax Agency's interpretation of legislation that has been failed by law. It then goes back to the legislation that existed in 2009. At that time another government was preparing this legislation. The preparatory work on that legislation did not state this as a purpose or a measure that was predictable in the legislation, and that is what the Supreme Administrative Court has now ruled on. Then the effects will be very dramatic. What is happening now is to go back to the order in force before 2009. That's what's happening-- it's not like there's going to be some other order. You can turn this thing around and turn it around. I am not saying that it is simple, and that is why I think we should follow this issue closely. There will also be a question of how the Swedish Companies Act is to be interpreted – are you still personally responsible on the Board of Directors? This is today a very important principle of the Companies Act. Do you, on behalf of the Moderates, want to change that principle? It's a little strange that today there are different tax conditions that apply to different board members – or rather, this was the case until this judgment. It is not an optimal situation that we have different tax rules for different types of board members. I do not think it is easy to say that it is crystal clear how this issue should be taken forward. That is why I think it is wise to follow this matter closely. Both I and the Minister for Finance say that we will closely monitor developments following this judgment. But neither should you paint a draconian result of this judgment. I would like to stress that it is important not only what interpretations authorities make but also that we have legislation that is predictable and thought through. When you have not worked through legislation in a way that is sustainable in the long term, it can be court interpretations that go in the opposite direction and have major consequences – we have seen that in other areas. Labour immigration is one of those areas where the previous government made changes. I do not believe that the purpose of these amendments was to put us in a situation where highly qualified workers are expelled from Sweden and are allowed to restart their processes in order to enter Sweden. However, if you are not careful with the legislative work, there may be unforeseen consequences. Therefore, it is important to reflect on this if the Moderates want to change the principles behind the Companies Act. Then it's a pretty big question, and then you have to have an answer to this before you get to grips with it.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-257	Mr President, I would like to There is a difference between following the issue and taking the lead and acting on it. Here I think the government should take the lead on this issue and see if the situation that has arisen is a problem. The Minister mentioned labour migration, which is an excellent example. We note that there are rules here that may not be misinterpreted but are at least interpreted in a way that does no good to anyone. Then you have to redo and do the right thing. We Moderates have said that we must redo and do the right thing here. In this case, the situation is similar. The effect that we are now likely to see is that more people will avoid taking board responsibility and instead manage it as a consultant. The companies thus purchase consultancy services instead of establishing them on boards of directors. This means that you do not have full responsibility, which you have as a registered member. I fear that we will see more creative solutions to how this competence is managed instead. The effect will be fewer formal board members and more consultants. This is not an effect that any of us wants. If it now turns out that this is a problem, as we have already been told, it is time to do something. I can already signal that if the government does not, we on the Moderate side will be very clear that we want to see in the future that it is possible for board members to invoice. And if this is not possible under applicable law, you can change that law. For the sake of the forthcoming bourgeois government, which takes place after 2018, I think it would be a service if the present government could change this so that we do not have to do so.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-263	Mr President, I would like to It has come to our lot to change some of the legislation of the previous government, which was not so well thought out. This is particularly true in the area of labour immigration, where we have now set up an investigation to change the laws that were not so well thought out and which thus led to interpretations of the rules that had major consequences. My main point here is that we need to know what we are doing with legislation, so that we know what the consequences are. I think that the interest in starting and running new, innovative companies is very strong in Sweden today. We also see an increased interest among younger people in getting into board work in different ways. I think this is a very positive development. I do not think that this development will be disrupted, but we will be following this issue closely. I think some companies can do as Hans Rothenberg says and take in skills in a little different ways, while others will continue to work with these people on the board, because they want to tie this competence to themselves. I can promise Mr Rothenberg that both I and the Minister for Finance will follow this matter closely. But I don't think you should paint draconian black colors around this change, which has become a court order. It is not a political decision, but courts have interpreted the legislation introduced by the previous bourgeois government.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-268	Mr President, I would like to Lotta Finstorp has asked me what measures I and the government intend to take to reduce overcrowding in emergency care. Overcrowding and relocation of patients is an important patient safety issue. The extent depends on what happens throughout the care chain. There is a need for systematic and strategic work in health care to reduce overcrowding, and there are major regional differences and variations over the year in how this works. A survey carried out by the Swedish Municipalities and County Council shows that both St Göran's Hospital and the Södersjukhus Hospital have a low proportion of overcrowding among county hospitals in Stockholm. Therefore, the form of ownership cannot be regarded as determining the proportion of overcrowding in a hospital. Lack of access to important occupational groups, as well as other skills supply problems, make a strong contribution to closed care places. The Government has taken a number of measures linked to the provision of health care skills. A special professional billion has been set aside, of which 300 million has been earmarked for 2017 in order to give more nurses the opportunity to become specialist nurses. In addition to this, the number of training places has been expanded, the resources for validation of foreign health education at the National Board of Health and Welfare have been greatly strengthened, and a number of government assignments have been given in this area. The Government has also announced an investment of SEK 2 billion in health care personnel, which may be used, among other things, to offer skills development, increase staffing and develop ways of working with the aim of maintaining health care professionals. Employers have an important responsibility for ensuring that the health care work environment and working conditions make it attractive for staff to become employees and to remain in care. Gradually addressing skills supply problems in healthcare also creates the conditions for fewer care places to be closed. It is also important that a patient be discharged from the closed care as soon as possible after the treating doctor has determined that the patient is ready to discharge. Otherwise, this can also lead to overcrowding in inpatient care. Today, a large number of care places are maintained by clear-cut patients. A new law on cooperation in the discharge from closed healthcare will enter into force on 1 January 2018. Among other things, the Act provides for a clearer process of discharge, including rules on early planning prior to discharge and on collaboration between county councils and municipalities. The Government has also given the National Board of Health and Welfare a mission in March 2017 to carry out a survey, current situation description and analysis of how shortcomings in skills provision and staffing can affect the risk of health injuries in healthcare. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has also recently launched a comprehensive support for healthcare in the area of patient safety, which the agency has been tasked with developing in collaboration with several other actors. There is comprehensive information on the prevention of health injuries. The Government has also increased the general state grants for the county councils by billions from 2017, which provides the conditions for the county councils to prioritise resources to which they estimate the needs to be greatest. My assessment is that the government is today taking strong measures to give county councils the conditions for overcrowding to be reduced. At the same time, I can state that the county councils have the operational responsibility for our hospitals and the responsibility for remedying the emergency situations that arise. The Government and the Left Party agree to come forward with a proposal for permission to receive public funding. Activities carried out under the Health Care Act will not be included in the planned bill. An investigation will be set up as a matter of urgency with the task of looking at different healthcare solutions to ensure that tax funds are used for what they are intended for.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-280	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Yes, Swedish care is of very high medical quality. At the same time, healthcare is facing major problems. Sweden has, among other things, the longest waiting times in Europe, and the healthcare queues are increasing sharply. The security and trust in getting available and safe care in time should be a matter of course in a country like Sweden. The concept of security is one of the most important concepts. When you ask people what is important in life, they say that it is to feel secure. This overcrowding is also a matter of security. You want to feel the security to know that if you need to get a bed in the hospital you should get it. As far as overcrowding and relocation are concerned, I think relocation is a strange word. Government agencies are being relocated, and in this context it is the relocation of patients. This not only creates insecurity but also an increased risk of health injuries, as there is not always sufficient competence and capacity to meet the patient's needs. In connection with the development of open health care, the development of medical care and the transfer of certain responsibilities to municipalities, the need for health care places has decreased. The number of care places in our hospitals decreased by an average of 35 per cent between 1996 and 2013, and in 2013 there were 2.6 care places per 1,000 inhabitants. Sweden now has the lowest number of care places per inhabitant in Europe. This in itself is not a problem, but when there are no longer places for care when you need it, problems arise with both patient safety and the working environment. This with delocalized patient means that patients are cared for somewhere where you do not have the specific skills needed for the diagnosis. Overcrowding is not just a problem at the Landstinget Sörmland, which I focus on in the interpellation, but it is a problem all over the country. As the Minister stated in his reply, there are major regional differences. It is certainly possible to explain with lack of competence, that there is often a lack of nurses and so on. But we sörmänarna are very worried that our county council stands out so negatively in this with overcrowding. In April, one of the county's hospitals had 13.5 overcrowdings per department and day, and then the average in Sweden is about 3, so the minister must understand that it is a huge problem for us in Sörmland. Since there have been such high overcrowding rates in the hospital for over a year, the staff begin to walk on their knees. Then there'll be a mass exodus. We are close to Stockholm County Council, so it is easy to commute there instead. Then it's like the cat on the rat and the rat on the rope on this issue. I have followed a series of articles in Sörmland media by a journalist named Tommy Kägo. He has done a solid job and interviewed staff, patients and relatives. It is not possible to find out whether IVO believes that the increase in the number of complaints about care injuries has to do with overcrowding, so I cannot stand here and say that. There are quite a few complaints concerning, for example, misdiagnoses, and it may be rather stress-related, that staff do not have the time to make the correct diagnosis. I would like to see zero tolerance for health injuries. Traffic has done very well with that. I would like to hear a little what the Minister says about that.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-288	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Lotta Finstorp, for an incredibly urgent interpellation! I am pleased that you begin by stating that Swedish health care performs very well in qualitative terms. In fact, we have quality healthcare that is world-class in many areas, and we should be proud of that and highlight it. Nevertheless, we have far too much problems with accessibility and staffing in Swedish healthcare. We have a health care system in Sweden which, in its structure, is quite old-fashioned. It's very hospital-heavy. We have a primary care in Sweden that is less developed, at the same time as we have a situation where more and more people live longer with chronic diseases and with more and more elderly people. When the immediate healthcare system is not designed in the way it should be, people naturally seek far greater access to emergency care, with the results that we see to some extent with excessive overcrowding and forced to relocate. As Lotta Finstorp points out, we also know that relocations involve a significantly higher risk of health injuries. It's very troubling. We have to do things in the short and long term. It is important that the political proposals and initiatives that we are making in this area are not just plasters on the wounds, but they should be long-term changes that will enable us to have sustainable health care in the future, given how our demography looks in this country. I am out meeting with healthcare professionals and think they are doing a heroic job in many places, not least the emergency care staff. I was not so long ago in the emergency room at Huddinge Hospital where you described how a working day means that once you have started your passport you will not be able to sit down until the passport is finished. It is clear that health care offering that kind of working conditions is not an attractive employer. Both health and safety at work and other conditions, such as the salary you receive when you have trained as a specialist nurse, mean that we have a major deficiency. Many of the healthcare professionals choose to work with simpler tasks and with better work schedules, for example in primary care or for that matter in municipal health care. That is why the government has chosen to focus a lot on skills supply issues, how we can respond to the needs that exist and how we can improve working conditions. In the long term, it is about the need for a rescheduling of the Swedish health care system. It is a work that we have begun, which in fact already started with Göran Stiernstedt's investigation and which has now been taken forward by the government's primary health investigator. I am happy to tell you more about it in the next post, because I think it is important.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-295	Mr President, I would like to The minister said that few choose to go on and train as specialist nurses. It is about getting a significantly higher salary if you do that little extra but also, the government representative here, that you get to keep more in your wallet. It goes hand in hand, of course. You don't spend extra energy and time on getting a higher position if you don't also get more money left in your wallet. The series of articles in Sörmlands Nyheter had interviewed a patient who had been sent home, and his condition deteriorated radically. When he got better, he reported this to IVO. The opinion to IVO shows that the hospital cited chronic care shortage as a reason. You can't really say that. The lack of space is not a reason to send a patient home. Then it is both strange and unfortunate that this is stated in a response to IVO. It must always be a clinical assessment on the basis of which a patient can be sent home or not. The Minister talked about primary care, and primary care is the most important step in the care chain. If a hospital does not have care places that meet the need, you get queues in the waiting room in the emergency room. It's all connected in the care chain. There is a system error, and here we have a consensus. We need to find much better flows, and we need to find more employers. Instead of just being public at all times, both staff and patients need to be able to choose other employers and caregivers. Close care is of great importance. In Sörmland it is free to go to primary care while the cost of going to the emergency room has been increased. Then you have to see what happens in primary care, because that's where you have controlled the flows. The waiting rooms there can get very drunk, and also you can not manage the care guarantee in a good way. You have to carefully analyze what you do when you rescrew the care chain and not just go on your gut. I'm worried here. The government took away the successful queue billions introduced by the Alliance. It was designed in return and was very good. We saw that it had an effect. You had to make a quid pro quo to get the money. I believe, as the Alliance government assumed, that incentive-driven money is good. I believe that the county councils and regions must work exactly that way when it comes to health care. We will continue to pursue the issue of an incentive-driven queue billion. It must also be designed in such a way that the healthcare guarantee is more comprehensive and coordinated. We think that you can screw it up, but it is definitely good to have incentives for healthcare to get the money. We want the queue billions to be wider than before and include, for example, X-rays and laboratory tests, because that is sometimes where there is a bug. It should also be professional neutral. I hope that we will hear about this in the future.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-305	Mr President, I would like to Let's be careful. There was a lot of consistent criticism of the queue billions of people from the professions of health care. That's why we removed it. It led, among other things, to displacement effects, as the professions working in health care pointed out. One can, Lotta Finstorp, definitely consider how to design financial incentives in a good way so that it becomes accurate and hopefully also leads to shorter waiting times. I have no objection in principle to this. It just must not be so that that patch on the wound is what you think should solve the basic problem. It's not just about getting extra money, you run faster. The resource enhancements that the government has made to the county councils are absolutely necessary for us to be able to receive long-term healthcare that can respond to demographic developments and the needs we see in health care. However, it will not solve the problem unless resources are also used to make healthcare attractive enough as an employer for people to want to work there. You have to be able to offer work environments that prevent the employees in the healthcare system from getting sick leave due to stress. This must be made clear to you. Yes, you may have to do things to increase the financial incentives, but it must never take that the fundamental, important efforts we have to make are the structural changes required in health care in the long term. We must also ensure that health professionals are given the best possible opportunity to deliver professional care to their citizens. Let me return to the more long-term question of the transition in Swedish health care. Anna Nergårdh has taken over after Göran Stiernstedt's investigation and will now take his sketch of how Swedish healthcare needs to be redesigned and give us a clear map of how and within what time frame we can do this. I totally agree with you, Lotta Finstorp. We need to expand a safe and well-kept care where our elderly can feel confident that they have times and that the needs they have can be taken care of there. We need close care that offers considerably more multi-professional teams than are available today. We need more specialties. Anna Nergårdh presented a timetable for this before the summer, in her first interim report. There she was also on incentives, because she talked about a reinforced health guarantee where you should be able to face more professions than doctors if you have other needs. It is about having both of these parts in your head and constantly remembering that if it is something that Swedish citizens should be able to expect to feel safe with, then they are that we should have a Swedish healthcare service that delivers. Then we politicians must have the courage to say the truth. There are long-term needs that we need to take care of. It will not happen overnight, but we are also doing things here and now for the staff and for increased incentives so that the right things will happen in the care chain.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-315	Mr President, I would like to We must dare to make the necessary structural change and change in health care. This is part of the problem, because as a county councilman – and I speak from my own experience as a county council – if I'm to be honest, you can't really deal with the basic problem. A number of years ago I met a care manager in a county council other than my own. She was going to retire and said: I have worked in health care for several decades, and what I have done most is to treat patients with and that is not our patient; it is going there instead. She also said: Everyone says that the patient should be in focus, but what is concrete about it? I've never seen that before. I've brought this with me, that you resist. If you are a care manager, you have to make sure that beds are free and move patients in different ways. This is also a few years ago, so it is not a new problem. The Minister and I have spoken a lot of work environment in this House in the past. This is just such a health care group that has large rates of sick leave in stress-related mental illness – women in the public sector. It's a huge challenge to get young girls and boys to go to professions that are linked to health care. This is a matter of destiny for Sweden in the future. If we do not get enough competent staff on the issues that are closest to people, the security of health care, yes, then I do not really know what will happen to Sweden.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-320	Mr President, I would like to I really agree with you, Lotta Finstorp. I also meet this when I'm out meeting with health workers, almost no matter where they work, but especially in the hospital-heavy part. It describes that the young girls and boys who today graduate as nurses or nurses and who start working in, for example, the emergency room do not want to work under those premises and in these working environments, with the working hours that they are often forced to have. We know that this is a matter of destiny for us. These are activities that have to work 24 hours a day. I have great respect for what you are saying, Lotta Finstorp, namely that one as county councillors rarely has the opportunity to deal with the major structural changes because one has to ensure that it works in everyday life for citizens. There, the interaction between the national level – Swedish Municipalities and County Councils – and our county council representatives out there is very important as well as that we as national politicians really have an ear to the ground and listen to what conditions are needed and that we can make available. I very much believe in the efforts we are making now to ensure that we have increased resources in health care, which we can use as we please, but also targeted funds for, for example, staffing to test new working time models and reward systems to increase attractiveness as an employer. We're gonna have to work on this. We will not turn it around overnight, but I think it is a step in the right direction. We should not close any doors to good and smart ideas, but take advantage of them, whether they come from private or public activities.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-325	Mr President, I would like to Dennis Dioukarev has asked me whether I have confidence that the official statistics on waiting time in child and youth psychiatry are reliable and what I think should be done to obtain adequate statistics in this area. Let me start with a somewhat broader perspective. The government has high ambitions in terms of health. The government has set itself the long-term goal of closing the irreversible health gaps within a generation. Because although health in Sweden is generally good, it is not for everyone. Mental ill-health is a major and growing social problem. The proportion of people experiencing and reporting mental illness has increased since the early 1990s. In 2016, the government adopted a new strategy in the area of mental health, which applies for the years 2016 – 2019. The Government's strategy will stimulate the development of prevention and promotion work in general but also early intervention to those who are not well or at risk of mental illness. The Government allocates over SEK 1 billion in 2017 for interventions in psychiatry and mental health. Through an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, the Government allocates SEK 885 million of the investment in 2017 to stimulate and support the principals' work on mental health. The Government's strategy will stimulate the development of prevention and promotion work in general but also early intervention to those who are not well or at risk. The national health guarantee provides for a first visit within the planned specialised care within 90 days. After a decision on treatment, you should receive it within another 90 days. If you follow the availability of children's and young people's psychiatry based on these deadlines, it is relatively good. 95.1 percent of the patients in the queue had waited less than 90 days for their first visit to planned specialised care in May 2017. In a pilot project, a national model for monitoring First Line activities for children and young people with mental illness has been developed. The first line is the function or activity in municipalities and county councils that first meets a child or a youth with an indicated problem. All First Line activities are offered to participate, and currently around 35 operations follow up their availability to the First Line. The measurement of accessibility is aimed at all First Line activities that work with children and young people between 0 and 17 years of age. Against this background, I see no reason to doubt the reliability of official statistics, although it does not always reflect all parts of a care chain.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-332	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Government for its answer and for taking the time to debate this very important issue. There are very few in-country countries that show the same trend as Sweden when it comes to mental illness among children and young people. A quick review of the statistics shows that the number of young people in Stockholm County seeking help in children's and young people's psychiatry has doubled in ten years. At the same time, suicide rates have been falling since 1980 for all age groups except those aged 15-24, where there has been an increase over the last decade. Furthermore, there are only 140 health care places within the BUP that will be sufficient for everyone across Sweden, and there are county councils that do not have a single psychiatric position for young people. Mr President, I would like to On the basis of the question in my interpellation, I have talked to psychologists around the country to form a better understanding of the situation within the BUP, and the picture they have given me is clear and coherent: Child and youth psychiatry is overcrowded. The reason why my question to the Government is about the statistics on care queues and not about measures for care queues in themselves is that there seems to have been room for discussion from the government about why we have care queues in Sweden at all. With regard to the statement by the representatives of the Government, quoted in the interpellation, which expressed the very strange view that the problems in Swedish psychiatry would have to do with the search pressure from patients, it is not a thesis supported by the professional psychologists I have talked to. Instead, they feel that the problem lies with politicians, who consistently ignored the call for help in getting the resources to manage to provide care to those who need it most. Many even testify that the care queues are actually longer than we know, contrary to the government's previously communicated position. I will go into the statistics for the care queues in the next post but would first like to know if the Government shares its representative's analysis that the care queues can be explained by too many seeking help from child and youth psychiatry and not by organisational or resource-related factors.
i-LHPefhmtnYagDioHG4eyZR	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Dennis Dioukarev, for a very important interpellation! I can only confirm the numbers you read. We have a situation where mental illness is the new Swedish public health problem. It's not that new – it's been going on for quite some time – but you can say that it's only in recent years that it's been noticed. The OECD released its final report about a year ago. There they looked at nine different Western countries where mental illness is increasing sharply. Sweden is one of the countries involved in the OECD study. The sharp increase was pointed out, and there were also some suggestions as to what we in Sweden had to do to reverse this trend. One thing that was stressed was that we get into the lives of children and young people far too late and that there needs to be significant reinforcements already in very early years in order to detect signs of possible mental illness or similar problems. This is why the government has chosen to strengthen pupil health. I was as late as yesterday at the National Board of Health and Welfare, who has a job dealing with infants with suspected mental illness. It was very interesting to listen to. As Minister of Social Affairs, I am also responsible for activity compensation for young people. In old words, it can be said that it is early retirement for young people under 30. It is limited in time and is given when it is assessed that a young person is not available to the labour market for various reasons. In 2002, the share of less than 30 beneficiaries of the activity compensation was much lower. Eight out of ten were granted activity compensation due to a physical disability. In addition to the fact that we have had a steep rise in the percentage that is granted activity compensation, we can see from these figures that eight out of ten people who are currently granted activity compensation are granted one because of a psychiatric diagnosis. I just want to confirm this picture. It's about doing several different things. On the one hand, it is about doing what the government is now trying to do, namely strengthening not least preventive work – strengthening pupil health and strengthening efforts on psychiatry aimed at children and young people. We are now shooting at 280 million more per year, and some of these resources are intended, among other things, to go partly towards strengthening youth receptions for early detection. Then it is very worrying, as the honourable Member points out, that we see that the number of suicides in Sweden is decreasing or relatively still in almost all age groups except in this group of young people between 16 and 24 years of age. We know that although many more girls feel that they are mentally ill, far more boys than girls are killing themselves. It is, of course, partly due to the stigmatization that still exists in society when it comes to these psychiatric diagnoses. This causes too few to seek help and help too late.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-346	Mr President, I would like to Waiting times are increasing both for investigations and for medical periods, due to staff shortages and a high turnover of staff. It has nothing to do with the children and young people who go there, as was insinuated in the statement by the representatives of the Government quoted in the interpellation, but it is all about the resources. I do not think that this is in any way an impossible situation. In one of the world's most heavily taxed countries, we should be able to do this. Nevertheless, I do not think that I received a clear answer from the Government to the question of whether she shares her predecessor's analysis that waiting times can be explained by the fact that too many people are seeking help from child and youth psychiatry. If the Government does not do so, it would be appropriate to have a clear answer here and now. Furthermore, in her reply, the Government says that she sees no reason to doubt the reliability of official statistics for the care queues of child and youth psychiatry. So I was going to tell you about a news article where I read about this very subject. It reads as follows: Children's and youth psychiatrists, BUP, are encouraged to hide the queues of neuropsychiatric investigations and distort accounting. The article shows that staff working at receptions in Stockholm are encouraged by managers to provide care to children and young people in such a way that they get as much money as possible. This is done to hide the fact that you have long queues and, for example, by ticking health plans that started, even though they are not. A visit is also recorded as several by speaking privately with both the children and the parents. According to the article, one psychologist says the following: You hand out forms to patients to count it as a small investigation, so that it gives more money. These are real abuses. Clinical considerations do not come first. At the same time, patients are withheld from official neuropsychiatric investigation queues. Another way of manipulating the statistics is to bring in as many new children and young people as possible within the 30 days of the health guarantee, and then allow them to wait several months for the next visit. Does the Government still think the statistics seem reliable? Mr President, I would like to As I read this, I thought of the expression: lie, cursed lie, and statistics. We can see that waiting times within the BUP are increasing, and they are increasing despite creative accounting. That says a lot about the condition of Swedish psychiatry. It is detrimental to democracy that we have manipulation of official statistics in a rule of law such as Sweden. This raises several questions. The first is: How can you put in the right action against the physic ill health if the fact is wrong? That is to say, if we do not know how long the care queues are, how can we know how much resources are actually required? The second question is: has the Government been informed of the situation by its predecessor, or is this something completely new to the government? I would like an answer to that.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-356	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for this input. I believe that certain things still need to be made very clear. It is obvious that as a health care professional you should not have a work environment or a work situation that means that you have a pressure to manipulate figures to hide care queues. If that's the case, it's bad from every conceivable point of view. It is bad for those who need to use the business. It is bad for the staff who work there and who probably feel very bad if they need to work under such conditions. And not least, it is very poor in relative terms for politicians who have to make decisions on the basis that they have before them in order, for example, to be able to make assessments of what resources are required. Let me just be clear in this part. At the same time, I am very aware that we have great challenges in psychiatry given how the situation has developed over the past 10 – 15 years in Sweden. But this is not just about the situation in psychiatry or within the BUP. If we are talking about too many people knocking on the door of the BUP, I would say that one of our greatest concerns today is that prevention is far too underdeveloped. Therefore, the government has made efforts to strengthen student health. Let's see how far it goes. Perhaps more will have to be done to meet these developments. But we have also made reinforcements, including youth receptions, where there are signs that something is not right. This may also help to prevent and support young people in a way that may not have to go to the BUP in due course, so that the right matters are taken care of in the right place. This is also the way to ensure that people receive optimal support. I therefore believe that this is a real priority that we are doing in this part, as we are now strengthening the resources for psychiatry and mental health in general. This is also not just a problem for children and young people, it is a social problem which today characterises the lives of a great many people. When you look at sick leave– I am also responsible for health insurance – the dominant reason why people are being sickly registered in Sweden today is some kind of psychiatric diagnosis. It can be fatigue depression, stress and anxiety, and two out of three affected are women. This is something that characterises our society at large, which requires quite a lot of thought. And you can think about what we basically need to do to ensure that people during life can have better mental health. Again, I would like to say that the fact that we are here today debating this is that this is an issue that is being highlighted much more today. You're open to the fact that it could be you or me or anyone who suffers from mental illness. It will hopefully help to reduce the stigmatisation that is devastating and which I believe is behind the fact that we have a lot more suicides, for example, among young men than among women. It must be okay, whether you're a girl or a guy, to feel bad and seek help and get the help you're looking for.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-361	Mr President, I would like to I think the Government has a very sober attitude to this issue. Talking more about this at this level too is very important. If we are to be able to shorten the care queues to BUP, transparency around them is important, so that we can be provided with adequate decision-making bases to improve the situation for the country's children and young people who are in need of support and help. In addition, there is a principled aspect, and that is that the Swedish people deserve to know the truth about the care queues. To conclude, therefore, I would like to know whether we can expect any measures to end the cover-up of the care queues.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-364	Mr President, I would like to You have to be careful with statistics, and the one that I have on my table today looks totally okay. As I said at the outset in my reply, today there is a pilot project on a national model for monitoring First Line activities for children and young people with mental illness. 35 activities are currently involved in the pilot project. The aim is to get an even better picture of the availability of First Line psychiatry. I will follow this issue very closely. So far during the term of office, the government has made significant efforts in this area. Of course, we also have the ambition that young people in need of support from the BUP should receive that support within an appropriate and reasonable time. There we have no other opinion whatsoever. This government is also prepared to continue its efforts to achieve this. Of course, we should also share the picture that no one who works in psychiatry should feel that you have to hide care queues in order for it to look good for politics. When designing incentives linked to health care, such as health guarantees and other things, we will ensure that this does not lead to this kind of problem. Thank you very much for a good interpellation debate!
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-370	Mr President, I would like to Emma Henriksson has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that the intention of abortion legislation is maintained so that no foetuses that can survive outside the womb are aborted. The enjoyment of human rights by women and girls is fundamental to the Swedish feminist government. A central right is to decide for yourself over one's body, sexuality and childbirth. In Sweden we have a strong right to abortion that the government stands up for. Part of this arrangement is that after the end of the eighteenth week of pregnancy abortion may be performed only if the National Board of Health and Welfare grants permission to the woman for the operation. Such permission may be granted only if there are exceptional reasons for the abortion. It is clear from the abortion law that permission to perform an abortion must not be granted if there is reason to believe that the fetus is viable. It is on the National Board of Health and Welfare's legal advice to make these assessments. The question of the deadline for late abortions raises a number of difficult medical and ethical issues. The government is behind the current construction of abortion legislation, within which the deadline for late abortion is not subject to political judgement. Furthermore, it can be concluded that it is the Inspectorate for Health and Care that supervises the health care and its staff and that they comply with laws and other regulations. Finally, I note that the National Board of Health and Welfare has invited a meeting in connection with the discussions on late abortions with a view to starting a dialogue between professional groups and the Legal Council. I welcome the fact that a dialogue has been initiated and intends to follow developments. I see no reason at present to take any action in this area.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-376	Mr President, I would like to Thank you very much, Minister. As I have written in the interpellation, the Christian Democrats are also behind the current legislation. At the same time, this is an incredibly difficult issue, not least for everyone involved – the pregnant woman, the other parent if there is one and also the health care staff. It is important to ensure that abortion legislation is also enforced. The current concerns are based on the fact that health professionals have expressed that it might be acceptable to pursue an abortion in violation of the legislation that we have today. It is said that when a child is born after week 22 it would be wrong to make lifesaving efforts for that child. That is what has caused concern. However, I am pleased that the Government is expressing its support for the current legislation and expects it to be complied with and that it is this legislation that we have and that should apply. Nevertheless, I would like to put a supplementary question to the Government. I am pleased to see that this meeting has been called and that the professions of health care – those who are supposed to enforce legislation – are gathering around these issues. If it turns out that health care does not agree or if there is reason to deviate from the current legislation, will the Government take responsibility for the government reviewing what further needs to be done to comply with the current legislation and for children who are able to survive not to be aborted?
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-382	Mr President, I would like to As I said, a government is behind the Swedish abortion legislation and the order that we have. It is not political assessments that should affect where the limit is set. We have decided on a system of legal advice with representatives of the profession to make this assessment. It is clear that I will respect what the Legal Council comes up with. As the honourable Member here says, we must accept what the Council comes up with and act on it, regardless of which direction it would be. I was very clear in my interpellation response when I said that this is a question that contains difficult medical and ethical decisions. In this case, we are talking about women who – I am convinced that Emma Henriksson knows on what grounds they assess the extraordinary reasons after week 18 – have had an abortion granted. So it has been considered that there are reasons to interrupt the pregnancy. We must also have a very great deal of respect for that.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-385	Mr President, I would like to The Legal Council has already been clear. A position has been taken that an abortion should be completed before the 22nd week begins. What is fundamental to the fact that Swedish abortion legislation has been able to endure for such a long time is precisely because it is designed in the way that the Government highlighted as an advantage. We also support that it should not be political balances that determine the weekly limit, but medical-ethical balances. Therefore, the legislation is also designed as the Government emphasised, that permits may not be granted if there is reason to believe that the fetus is viable. That is where the legislation is concrete. Authorisation shall not be granted in that case. However, there is concern that in the professions there is a different assessment that could lead to a departure from the wording of the legislation. It is precisely the wording of the legislation that makes it not a political assessment. As medical advances are made, it is also possible to save more and more extremely premature babies when permission for abortion is given. According to information provided by, inter alia, the President of the Legal Council, 142 abortions were granted in 2015, which started in week 21. Of course, for every individual who takes this decision or where the Legal Council has decided to grant it, it is extremely difficult circumstances that lie behind it. However, for confidence in upholding our abortion legislation, it is important that the limit that we have politically set – the only limit that we should interfere with and that is about viability – is also maintained. That's why I'm a little worried when the Government now expresses that you should have respect no matter what it might be. The consequence of this is: Does the Government mean that if the judicial council or others were to conclude that it is possible to deviate so that even when the child's life can be saved after it is advanced, it would still end this life? I would like an answer to that.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-391	Mr President, I would like to We have clear legislation in this case. I've made it very clear that I'm behind it. This is about very difficult medical-ethical issues. In the light of the discussions that have taken place, the National Board of Health and Welfare has initiated discussions with representatives of the profession and the Legal Council. I will, of course, follow this discussion. Otherwise, it would be as if I were saying: They can discuss exactly what they want, and no matter what they come up with, I will not care about it. This would be an extremely strange act by a minister who has just said that she is in favour of dialogue having been initiated and that she intends to follow that trend. This is my message to Emma Henriksson today. In view of the debate we are having here with each other, I think we still need to go back to what it looks like in general when it comes to abortions in Sweden. I believe that, based on this debate – which is of course important but should be managed by those who are set to do so in dialogue with each other – people create a picture of the fact that this is a large number of cases. It's not like that. Both you and I, Emma Henriksson, know that the number of teenage abortions in the last ten years has been halved in Sweden and of all abortions in Sweden 94 percent will end before week 12. Even 53 percent of abortions end before week 7. This is what we're talking about. Basically, our abortion legislation is about protecting and supporting women's right to their own sexuality and body and the right to decide whether to become a parent or not.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-397	Mr President, I would like to Every single life is inviolable. Although we are fully aware that the number of abortions is very small – according to data 142 in 2015 – each individual life is equally protective. It is precisely in the situation when a child has been born after week 22 and whether it then has the right to have its life saved or to try to save what the complexity has increased further. This is part of an issue that is in many ways much larger, but the interpellation does not apply. Of the children born this week 22, 40% survive. It is the medical achievement that has enabled more children to survive and that more parents who, despite the fact that the baby is born far too early, can actually have a living child. It also means, however, that we must be careful to protect the design of current legislation that takes on the viability. It is legislation that has worked for a very long time, and here in Parliament we have a broad and very strong commitment that it must continue to apply. We Christian Democrats will, of course, continue to follow this issue so that current legislation is upheld. We will follow the talks that are taking place, just like the Government. However, our ambition will remain firm: the application will continue to be based on current legislation, which is committed to viability.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-401	Mr President, I would like to No one here has said that not every life is inviolable. That is, of course, the common view as well as compliance with the legislation we have today. That is the starting point. But again, there are difficult medical-ethical questions about this. As an example, we are able today, as Emma Henriksson says, to save 40 percent of the children born this week 22. But in each neonatal department, it is made in dialogue with the parents and the profession that works there sometimes decide to end life support measures. This is happening. Even so, every life is inviolable. In this case, we are talking about women who have been granted a late abortion on grounds that may be related to injuries or other matters for exceptional reasons by the National Board of Health and Welfare's Legal Council. There is a terrible amount of shame and guilt left in Sweden when it comes to women who have abortions. Many women feel terribly bad about having to make such decisions. It will therefore be very black and white when Emma Henriksson says that no matter what the profession and medical ethics say, the Christian Democrats will under no circumstances make any new decisions on the matter.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-405	Mr President, I would like to Gunilla Nordgren has asked me whether I and the government are prepared to introduce, as a first measure, a check to be made with the Police Authority if there is a notification of hijacked identity before a person goes into personal bankruptcy. As I have said before, the government is working very actively to strengthen the protection against fraud and identity creations. Unlawful use of someone else's identity data is punishable, and an ongoing investigation is now looking at how to prevent the use of false ID documents. To pretend to be someone else in a bankruptcy application is so far unusual. In cases where, however, a person is wrongly declared bankrupt, it is possible to appeal the decision immediately and have it annulled in higher law. Of course, the best thing is that this should never have to happen. It is therefore important for the courts to be vigilant that there may, after all, be false applications and, if necessary, take steps to verify suspected false information. I intend to follow this issue closely and, if necessary, I am prepared to take action.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-408	Mr President, I would like to Welcome here, Minister. This is your first interpellation debate, isn't it? However, we know each other from an old age. Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank you for your answer, but I am not very happy with it. I don't think it's that uplifting. I recently asked a written question with the same content. Even then, the answer was thin, and so there was an interpellation, so that we can debate this. The reason is what happened to Securitas CEO this summer. His identity had been hijacked in March, when a person applied for a loan in his name. The case was reported to the police by the victim without delay. The latter had not received any information as to whether the loan was paid out, the amount involved or the type of loan applied for. On 10 July, the same person will be declared bankrupt by the Stockholm District Court without any contact with him prior to a decision. The decision of the district court was based entirely on a forged application in which that person claims bankruptcy. This incident was also reported to the police, Mr President. The decision was appealed immediately to the Svea Court of Appeal, which quickly announced that it had decided to eliminate the court's bankruptcy decision. However, the Swedish Companies Registration Office had already deregistered the person as a board member and CEO as a result of the bankruptcy decision, and also retroactively. There was obviously no problem between different authorities, between the District Court and the Swedish Companies Registration Office. In the application, the applicant was asked for immediate bankruptcy on account of the insolvency of the applicant, which is not temporarily requested. The application was signed with a forged signature. A simple check of the signature or a check at the Police Authority on whether there was a police report of hijacked identity could have prevented this. The fact that you should legitimise when applying for personal bankruptcy should – I actually thought – be a matter of course. How to do this and whether to require identification with e-identification, for example, needs to be investigated. The law needs to be changed. Then it should pass the Riksdag. This takes some time, and I understand that. However, I do not understand that the government apparently does not intend to make any quick decisions on changes in procedures and so on that could eliminate some of these problems. This person has therefore immediately been deregistered as CEO and board member and could not make any decisions whatsoever. The Court of Appeal acted quickly, but at least that caused many problems. A lot of work was needed for the affected person before things could be corrected. Does the Minister think this is okay? Does the Minister think that the problem is not large enough for rapid action to be taken to prevent or, in any case, make it more difficult for this sort of thing to happen in the future?
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-415	Mr President, I would like to No, of course, I never think a criminal phenomenon is okay. As I mentioned at the outset, the government is working both actively and widely to address the problems of ID-encapsulations. It is basically criminal behaviour, and it should, of course, be tackled by means of criminal law. As I said, Id-jackings in connection with bankruptcy claims are still rare. Significantly more common is that someone falsely pretends to be someone else, taking up a loan or entering into a contract of some kind in someone else's name. That is why it is extremely important to continue work on taking general measures to combat id-encapsulations widely. This work is and will be central to the government. As far as the area of bankruptcy is concerned, which is directly concerned, it is, of course, desirable to have proper control over the applicant for bankruptcy. At the same time, bankruptcy must be decided as quickly as possible. It is in the nature of such a case. This will prevent, among other things, other individuals from facing financial problems by perhaps being unaware of the financial position of the counterparty and entering into contracts with a counterparty for which a claim for bankruptcy is just being dealt with. There is a balance in this that is extremely important to consider. What I think is urgent is that it is important for our courts to be vigilant, not least in the light of the case raised by Gunilla Nordgren. I can say that I am familiar with that particular case and with the incident surrounding Gunilla Nordgrens's question. I want to make it clear that there is nothing to prevent a court from checking, for example, the identity of the applicant – if there is a reason for that. However, it provides that many cases and types of cases are initiated by means of a written application to be signed independently, to underline the seriousness. This applies not only to claims for bankruptcy, but also, of course, to many other areas.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-419	Mr President, I would like to A signature is easy to forge. This may be the case for persons who sign official financial statements, as in this case, and it may be Gud's protection also applies to our signatures. A check of the signature could be made at the passport unit or in the driving licence register. There can also be an inspection at the Police Authority. The person had done what is expected and required of citizens, i.e. filed a police report. In the case of a crime – vandalism, assault, etc. – a police report must be made for the continued process. It is a requirement of society. But apparently, society through government doesn't have to do its part. The Minister says in his interpellation response that this is punishable. We fully agree on that, and I already knew that. That's unusual. Be the minister on it. Yeah, so far. But even if this is unusual, it is no excuse for not doing everything to prevent it – in the short term and in the long term. The reply also states that there is a possibility to appeal immediately against the decision. Yes, but let's say you're on the move or you don't find out. This was not the case this time, but the fact that the citizen can appeal when it is wrong is not an excuse. It is quite obvious that the citizen should be able to appeal when it is wrong. The Minister then considers that the courts should be vigilant and – as stated in the interpellation response – take action if necessary. However, the courts believe – at least according to the media, and I think that is true – that there is no legal framework for them to make such demands. And who's going to decide if it's a suspect? Should any official or judge do so? How are we gonna do that? I think it would be best if you in the government quickly made certain decisions that can be made without amendment, because legislative changes take time, as we have been talking about. This could involve, for example, obliging the authorities or, in this case, the district courts to do a check at the Police Authority. If the citizen has done his part, I'll have the authority to do its part! I believe what the Minister says about you working on it. I look forward to legislation coming forward quite quickly which requires that you be there either physically or can legitimise yourself and regulate how it should be done. I understand it's taking a little time, but it shouldn't have to take a really long time. The Minister also considered that there should be a balance. Yes, sometimes it's very soon to send people out of boards, and also retroactively – it happened in this case two days back in time. The person finds out the next day, so it's three days when the person doesn't know it's not the CEO of a stock exchange company. No good, I'd say! The first step to be taken in anticipation of a new tightening up of the law is to require these controls to be carried out, so that official Sweden does as much as we demand of the citizens. For example, if I have a break-in, assault or whatever it may be, I can't get a cent from the insurance company unless I've reported it to the police. The best thing would be to make quick and simple decisions and then work on the matter. Wouldn't the minister agree with me on that?
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-428	Mr President and Gunilla Nordgren! I would, of course, like to emphasise that I take very seriously the fact that there are false claims for bankruptcy. I would also like to be able to agree very quickly with a concrete proposal, but my mission is, of course, to ensure that such a concrete proposal is included in a system that we have today. Otherwise, legislation is needed. I must also highlight the consequences of a change. As a first step, I intend to consider the issue within the Ministry of Justice. When events occur, it is always the case that we follow them, pay attention to them and, of course, make an assessment of whether we need to proceed in any way in any direction. I know that Gunilla Nordgren shares my view that it is incredibly important to have a good basis when making decisions. Whether it's a government decision or a parliamentary decision, it's of course extremely important that we don't just cut off a proposal for a decision very easily. I am trying to show that the issue is more complex in a wider context. We want to live and live in a very open society. Today, there are huge opportunities to obtain information about other people. It follows in the wake of a number of opportunities to use it for interests of a criminal nature. Basically, of course, it is extremely positive that we live in that way. But it has some consequences. That is why it has been important for me in the debate to point out the important investigative work that we have in the pipeline on stricter requirements and procedures for Swedish identity documents. My answer to Gunilla Nordgren is that we are following the question and considering it. Of course, we want to link it to the general approach we need to identity documents.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-433	Mr President, I would like to We agree on all of that. However, there is what we do not agree on. I believe that the government could give the district courts the task of checking, for example, at the Police Authority. It is a rather simple measure that does not need to pass the Riksdag. On the other hand, with regard to the generality that the Minister is at in these cyberattack times and so on, it is important that it is kept under control on this. If the citizen does his or her duty to report that it has been hijacked, I think it is the duty of the district court to check. We can conclude that they were very quick to contact the Swedish Companies Registration Office. Why, then, had they not been able to make a simple check? This person a person asks for himself in personal bankruptcy. Was there a police report? It's as simple as that. What divides us in opinions is not what needs to be done in the long term. There I hope there will be a good bill in due course. However, I am not satisfied with the answer that you are not prepared to take certain rapid measures that do not have to pass the Riksdag simply by saying that the district courts should check. They can either do so at the passport unit with the signature, with the police report or both. This is something that could be done quickly and easily by the department, thereby preventing or, in any case, making these behaviours more difficult until there is proper legislation in place that will have a few months before it comes into force. I would have liked you to have taken that on board and also been prepared to take some swift action.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-438	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Gunilla Nordgren for the question in the interpellation and debate. This is an extremely urgent issue. I've been eager to put it in a wider context. It is extremely important that we talk about the open society, how we handle our identity documents and that we ensure that what is direct criminal interests is addressed in special order. I want to reconnect and send that when it comes to contacting the Swedish Companies Registration Office directly in the case at hand, that is exactly how it should be done. That's exactly how it's supposed to be done when a bankruptcy application comes in. That's exactly the right thing to do. Again, there is nothing to prevent a court from asking questions when processing an application. I believe that neither Gunilla Nordgren nor I know whether there are courts asking those questions. As I said, this is an extremely important and urgent debate. I am convinced that we need to continue to discuss these issues together. I myself look forward to the investigation's proposals and suggestions. Thank you very much for the debate.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-441	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Kerstin Lundgren has asked me if I see that the proposed nuclear ban convention now before me poses a risk of maintaining and strengthening the NPT agreement, what alternative initiatives I have taken to promote a successful review of the NPT 2020, if I see that Sweden's security must be the focus of our position on the proposed nuclear ban convention, if I and the government have consulted our Nordic neighbours during the negotiations around the convention to take account of their views and finally what anchoring of the decision to vote for the nuclear ban convention that took place within the government before Sweden voted for it. The issues concern several aspects, but let me start with the Swedish tradition of disarmament. Sweden has long had a broad and deep commitment to disarmament and non-proliferation. Today we see an upswing between countries with nuclear weapons where rhetoric about threats of use has become more common. The lack of progress in disarmament has also contributed to 122 states deciding this summer to support the adoption of a convention that would allow for the continuation of a regular ban on nuclear weapons. We are prepared to seriously test all the ways that can bring us closer to the goal of a nuclear-free world. A ban could give new political energy to global disarmament efforts and strengthen the norm against the use and possession of nuclear weapons. In times of security concerns, this is all the more burning. For the government, it was therefore natural to participate in the UN-mandated process that led to the adoption of the Nuclear Weapons Convention. The decision to vote in favour of the Convention at the conclusion of the negotiations this summer was prepared in the usual manner within the Government Office. An ongoing work on text analysis was carried out during the negotiation and was the basis for the decision. The outcome of the negotiations has, of course, been the subject of an initial assessment and analysis. As usual, such decisions require a comprehensive impact assessment that thoroughly reviews the Convention and its impact on Sweden. That is why the government will now set up an investigation for the purpose. Within the framework of regular contacts with the Nordic countries on current disarmament issues, the Convention has been extensively discussed. The issue was raised only last week when I met my Finnish colleague in Helsinki. Also during the regular meetings held between the Nordic Heads of Disarmament and Non-Proliferation issues, the Convention and the negotiation process have been discussed over the past year. As is well known, we have come to various conclusions among ourselves regarding participation in the negotiation process. At the same time, let me emphasise that there is broad consensus in the Nordic community on disarmament and non-proliferation issues. It is also illustrated by the fact that we often make joint speeches at international meetings. Mr President, I would like to Our position has always been to see the Convention in a broader perspective with the NPT at its centre. It is no secret that we from the Swedish side would have liked the text to express this view more clearly. Sweden's position is and remains that the NPT is the cornerstone of this global work on disarmament and non-proliferation. The relationship between the Convention and the NPT will be an important part of the analysis work now under way. Sweden is widely involved in the preparatory work launched for the NPT review conference in 2020. The first preparatory committee meeting in Vienna earlier this year highlighted, among other things, nuclear risk reduction, reduced levels of preparedness and gender issues. It is crucial that this process leads to concrete progress after the failure of 2015. Sweden will seek to actively contribute and engage in ongoing dialogue with other countries on how to strengthen the NPT. There is also reason to recall the specific responsibility of nuclear weapons states. Implementation of previous commitments, not least in the 2010 NPT Action Plan, is more urgent than ever. The investigation now being launched will highlight the implications of the Convention for, among other things, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, the Test Ban Treaty and our defence policy cooperation. The directives and the arrangements for this investigation are presented in the near future. After the investigation is completed, the government will take a position on a signing. Let me conclude by pointing out that progress towards a nuclear-free world would be beneficial for Swedish and global security. The fact that the opposition is not showing a greater interest in disarmament issues in this troubled time is, I find, distressing.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-449	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for answering my questions, at least some of them! Mr President, I would like to The Center Party wants to see a nuclear-free world. The Center Party wants a credible disarmament of nuclear weapons. The Center Party fully supports the NPT agreement, the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and does not want to risk it through other global agreements that could erode it. It also applies to the test ban agreement which we are fighting to get in place. The Center Party saw clear problems with the proposed arrangement for negotiating a nuclear ban agreement. Nevertheless, we saw reasons to participate to call and to build bridges. We were clear that we did not want to see a placard policy but a performance policy as a result of that negotiation. We saw, Mr President, the declarations by the nuclear states. Russia was very clear in its statement as to why it should not vote in favour of a negotiation on this. They pointed out that it was destructive and that it threatened the NPT. We took note of Japan's mark – Japan, which is now facing recurring threats from its neighbours in the region, North Korea. Japan, which is the only country that has known the humanitarian consequences of nuclear weapons and the consequences at large, chose not to go in because, like others, such as Switzerland and our neighbours Finland and Norway, it wants to see a world without nuclear weapons but wants credible disarmament that does not threaten security. I also noted, Mr President, the mark that Sweden made before the negotiations started. They voted in favour of going in, which we thought was right at the time. That marking meant that the agreement would be assessed on the basis of whether the negotiations had taken place in bridge-building and inclusiveness and whether nuclear weapons were included. My expectation was that we would have a Swedish voice that acted in this direction – for inclusion, for the nuclear states to come along and for other solutions if it were not possible to go that way. Holland was also involved and was clear that they wanted to try, like Sweden, to test the conditions for a credible agreement. What we can see, Mr President, is precisely what many have said, namely the importance of disarmament also being based on a broad vision of security policy. We want nuclear weapons not to be used and to disappear, but we want them to be done in a way that is credible. Now we have the result. It has been a rapid process that has not been bridge-building but divisive. No nuclear states have participated, and that threatens the NPT. Does the Foreign Minister see that Sweden's security must be the focus of our position on the negotiated convention? And does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see that the Convention poses a risk of maintaining and strengthening the NPT agreement itself?
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-456	Mr President, I would like to In fact, it is the government that is in charge of performance policy and not placard politics. The easiest of all is to stand above everything and say: We are against nuclear weapons. We live at a time when arsenals are being modernised, when there is a proliferation and when there is no compliance with the Non-Proliferation Treaty. You have not been anywhere in that debate. The opposition has not been involved at all, and when I have met civil society organisations that are involved, they tell me that they have invited you several times but that you do not come. In fact, I believe, Kerstin Lundgren, that when you changed the line and attitude towards NATO membership, the vote of the Center Party also silenced. It's very boring. I just did the opposite. This government took Sweden down from the public gallery, where not least my predecessor had placed Sweden. I recall that when Sweden left, for example, the New Agenda Coalition, which worked against nuclear weapons, Kerstin Lundgren said that it was important that it did not send out a picture of Sweden reprioritizing the nuclear issue, and she criticised this. It was then that we were welcomed with open arms back into the UN context to discuss how to find a way forward. It hasn't worked. The nuclear states are determined to hold on to their nuclear weapons and, moreover, the doctrine of deterrence does not work as expected or as it would have wanted it to work. So what do we do, other than just say in general that we are clearly against nuclear weapons? We have to work with other countries. In fact, 122 of the world's countries voted for this convention and decided that it is time for us to signal clearly and form the norm. That is as much what it is about, just as it has been in previous international conventions that have banned weapons of mass destruction. The nuclear countries are being forced to accept that this should be the norm. This is the last weapon of mass destruction that we do not have an international ban on. If not now, when will a country like Sweden and a Swedish foreign minister speak for nuclear disarmament and against nuclear use? If not now, when? Of course, we are working very actively to also try to build a bridge. But it was clear how the nuclear countries reacted. Should we give in to that? Is that the line? Should we say that they will get a veto on this issue and that the rest of the world's countries should therefore not dare to stand up to nuclear weapons and actually insist that this is a way forward that is precisely the norm? It is true that the hearing went exceptionally fast. Many who participated found it extraordinaryly successful to actually get along. But just as is customary, you also have to examine exactly how we interpret each paragraph, how we translate it if we want to sign and how it affects our collaborations. Our advantage is that we are militaryly non-aligned. We have the freedom to speak out against nuclear weapons and, at the same time, to defend our cooperation.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-462	Mr President, I would like to I know that Mrs Wallström, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, is committed to nuclear disarmament and has been so throughout her life. But there are others who have been and are involved. I myself have participated in both the 2010 NPT review, which nevertheless achieved something, and the 2015 NPT review, which did not achieve a result because it was too fragmented. There were other reasons for this as well. Russia's actions at that time were very clear. Other countries were also clear, but Russia in particular was. Given the reality of security policy, it is, of course, important that we try to get there if we really want to achieve results and not just statements. There are many countries which are not nuclear states but which have not yet chosen to join, partly because there is a need for a broad security policy analysis, partly because they think it is important to try to build bridges and make progress in the areas that exist and not re-enter a situation that perhaps by 2020 will divide and even in the worst case completely leave the agreement, the NPT review, to stand. I think it is worrying, Mr President, that in his last speech the Minister for Foreign Affairs seemed to be so clear that this agreement is good and correct. It is clear that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has the ambition that Sweden should sign the agreement. It is surprising to me, because I see that there is a humanitarian perspective and that it is very clear that we want a world without nuclear weapons – but the way there must include and build bridges. Otherwise, we will not achieve results and we will stand in a corner. It may be in nice company, but it does not lead forward. We may find it difficult to find ways forward to solve what we are now seeing in North Korea. Neither the NBT agreement nor the NPT agreement have been sufficient in that situation, but we must move forward. Then it is not more fragmentation but more bridge building that is required. It is also necessary to have a clear overall view of this. There is a need for balanced disarmament, as the former Social Democratic Prime Minister of Norway, Jens Stoltenberg, put it, so that it becomes credible. A credible follow-up mechanism is also needed. We're not there today. Many have also criticized it. If you are in Costa Ricas's security policy environment, it may be a completely different situation. But for a country like Sweden, in the Baltic Sea region, it is crucial to see the importance of balanced disarmament, both of tactical nuclear weapons and of other nuclear weapons. We are not there, with the signal that the Foreign Minister is now giving. Does the Minister for Foreign Affairs at all see a risk that the Convention might lead to the nuclear states and other states not wanting to proceed with the NPT review?
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-469	Mr President, I would like to I hear something a little insidious. In fact, I believe that the NATO argument is very important for the Center Party and the opposition. I believe that the criticisms from NATO and from the nuclear weapons states have turned down. I haven't heard any other suggestions on how to do this. This is the best we have right now. It is a market from the international community. 122 countries say: This must be the norm. We need a ban on the last weapon of mass destruction. We have experienced this before, that nuclear countries defend their right to maintain nuclear weapons. We have also seen it with cluster weapons and landmines. And we saw it when the humanitarian initiative came about. Then there was a huge reaction. It is clear that one is exerting pressure on one's allies. We can also ask ourselves what happened when the Netherlands finally did not dare to vote as they would have liked. We have to be honest, Kerstin Lundgren. You say that it is important to sort out this link and to make sure that what we do works strengthening. That was also the intention of this convention. There are no other intentions. I can recommend the debate article in Dagens Nyheter. The authors start by saying that this is what it looks like today. If you now want it to be a deterrent and accept that there should be a nuclear umbrella, which you are prepared to do if you advocate NATO membership, the researchers and experts say: And the countries would like to modernise their arsenals further. We can of course say that it does not work. The Non-Proliferation Treaty is not working as it should today. The idea is to be more norm-forming. It was the origin. We also need to look at how to get the nuclear states involved in some form of dialogue. There is nothing to rule it out so far. It is about how to build, how to carry the debate forward. You shouldn't underestimate the purpose. You're supposed to understand that. Nor should you hide behind completely different arguments. What's the alternative? Is there another initiative that is realistic today? And what's that supposed to look like? After all, this works as it was intended, as a pressure and a clear political signal from 122 countries of the world against the nuclear weapons states: this is unacceptable. Look at the danger it puts us in! So right now is the time to discuss it. We are not entirely satisfied with all the texts, as it may be in such cases. But that does not necessarily mean that everything in the Convention is bad. It can also be a matter of interpretation. That is why we need to look carefully at what that would mean. We argue, of course, that Sweden can do both. We can mark and have a clear policy against nuclear weapons, and we can defend our cooperation. And we will continue to do so.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-482	Mr President, I would like to One can do one's own interpretation. It can be done by the Foreign Minister on his own. But the question is whether others agree with the foreign minister's interpretation. If this is not the case, then you sit a little worse. Therefore, one of the questions was whether the government has carried out an analysis of the security implications of the yes vote. There was nothing in the argument when we first took note of the foreign minister's article. Mr President, I would like to The Secretary of State says it's a mark. But we have made lots of markings, without it having produced results. Then it is important to think about how to move forward and achieve results. It can only be built if one looks at disarmament and security. You can't see it just from one side. You also have to see the other side. It becomes evident when we look at how Japan, for example, has reasoned. Mr President, I would like to It's still a little troubling. I assume that the government's view is that it wishes to sign this agreement. If you believe that you have laid out the bridge to that signature by voting yes but have not investigated and taken into account the consequences for our security, which could mean that at the next stage you will not be able to sign, the mark that Sweden has made falls. It will have sold the butter and lost the money, Mr President. Nor does it lead to success for either the disarmament profile or the results of nuclear disarmament. I believe that the Foreign Minister is stuck in the NATO track and the N ato discussion and makes it more of a mark.
i-ea0fb6fb0b8719b4-486	Mr President, I would like to It's just the opposite. This Convention would ban the last WMD not yet covered by international law and order. That's what it's all about. But at this stage it is also a clear signal. Others who have signed and are ready for the Convention also take time to look at their collaborations but also at the links to other agreements. We must continue the discussion on how to build a bridge so that we eventually get with the nuclear states in a discussion on nuclear disarmament. These are important tasks. And they do not disappear because they have a convention. It goes without saying that we must examine all those aspects before we eventually sign and ratify. However, we have started work with the desire to do something in the troubled and dangerous times in which countries are beginning to seriously threaten the use of nuclear weapons – it is not just deterrence, but it is believed that putting them in would be realistic. Then we have to do something. The world has to say no. That's the background to this, and that's what you're supposed to understand. It has worked in a similar way when previous conventions have come into being. It has become a pretty strong opinion. People have reacted. Countries have also forced nuclear-weapon countries and others who have originally been opposed to accept, and in time real work on disarmament has begun. We are continuing the fight against nuclear proliferation. And we mean, unlike the previous government, that we should continue to engage fully in this work. And we will defend our cooperation. We shall, of course, examine carefully how the Convention will affect us in all these areas.
