i-3b439118eff079b6-21	Madam President, I would like Solveig Zander has asked me what measures the government is taking to prioritise the issue of increased accessibility within the BUP. There is a clear link between living conditions and health in general and between living conditions and mental health in particular. In order to reduce mental illness in the short and long term, it is crucial to have a focus on preventive work, an accessible first-line care and a specialised care with high quality. The proportion of those experiencing mental disorders has increased in recent years. For example, there is a clear tendency for youths and young adults to be depressed, anxious, have trouble sleeping, and have pain problems. Young people also consume more psychiatric care than before, both outpatient and hospital care. Already this year, the Government is allocating over SEK 1 billion for interventions in psychiatry and mental health. The funds should be used, among other things, to meet the increased mental illness of children and young people and to strengthen the work of youth clinics. The Government makes the assessment that there is a great need to further expand the investment in psychiatry and mental health. The Government has therefore proposed to strengthen the work on mental health by SEK 500 million for 2018 and intends to strengthen the work by SEK 1 billion per year in 2019 and 2020. The expansion of the initiative is being done, among other things, to strengthen first-line care and specialized psychiatry for children and young people. The spring 2017 amending budget added SEK 100 million for this year to strengthen child and youth psychiatry and first-line psychiatry for children and young people in primary care in county councils and regions. The Government proposes in the 2018 Budget Bill to continue this investment during 2018 – 2020. Through an agreement with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council, the Government allocates SEK 885 million of the investment in 2017 to stimulate and support the principals' work on mental health. The Government's strategy will stimulate the development of prevention and promotion work in general but also early intervention to those who are not well or at risk. The Government intends to sign an agreement with a similar approach in 2018. Accessibility in healthcare is an important issue for the government. Over time, the availability of healthcare has improved, but in recent years there are worrying developments linked to the accessibility measures in the healthcare guarantee. It is worth noting, however, that this development started already in the latter part of the period when the previous performance-based queue billions existed. The embodiment was criticised for leading to displacement effects and creative recording of waiting times. The issue of accessibility is also closely linked to the issue of skills provision. The staffing and skills supply problems that exist in healthcare help to reduce the capacity of care and thus accessibility. This may, for example, be about closed care places and cancelled operations. The government has taken a number of measures. The general state grants are increased by billions for the county councils from 2017. A special profession's billion has been introduced that addresses precisely the challenges of skills provision. Among other things, funds have been provided to stimulate more nurses to further train themselves in areas where national needs are high, for example while maintaining pay. Funds have also been provided for the validation of foreign health training courses as well as for the extension of training places in nursing, midwifery and specialist nursing training. Professional billions replaced queue billions in order for a functioning supply of skills to be a prerequisite for good accessibility. At the same time, employers have an important responsibility for ensuring that the health care work environment and working conditions make it attractive for staff to become employed and remain in care. One of the government's new initiatives, the patient billion, aims, among other things, to promote the conditions for increased accessibility. It is a question of stimulating a stronger guarantee of care. The government investigator has suggested that patients should be able to obtain a medical assessment in the primary care of qualified personnel within three days instead of visiting a doctor within seven days. In addition, as of 2018, the Government proposes SEK 2 billion to improve the human resources situation and develop healthcare operations. The staff investment should be able to be used, for example, for changes in working methods and new appointments of staff. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has also been commissioned by the Government to develop the monitoring of healthcare accessibility. The national health guarantee provides for a first visit within the planned specialised care within 90 days. After a decision on treatment, you should receive it within another 90 days. If you follow the availability of children's and young people's psychiatry based on these deadlines, it is relatively good. Of the patients in the queue, 95.1% had expected less than 90 days on their first visit to planned specialised care in May 2017. In a pilot project, a national model for monitoring first-line activities for children and young people with mental illness has been developed. The first line is the function or activity in municipalities and county councils that first meets a child or a youth with an indicated problem. All first line activities are offered to participate, and currently around 35 activities follow up their availability to the first line. The measurement of accessibility is aimed at all first line activities that work with children and young people, 0 – 17 years of age. Overall, I believe that the government's new initiative will reinforce the already extensive efforts made by the government to improve accessibility for patients in the field of mental health in various ways. If we get effective care, both in first-line activities and in the more specialized psychiatry, we ensure that people with mental illness receive the efforts and care they need. In this context, children and young people are a particularly important group, which is why parts of the government's efforts are earmarked to improve mental health, especially among children and young people.
i-3b439118eff079b6-35	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. It was long but not concrete. It contained very broad funding for what is being invested in health care. The Minister also mentioned, of course, BUP, child and youth psychiatry, and that is the focus here. What is being done with the other care right now I think belongs to another debate and another discussion. Within the BUP, it's a disaster now. It is our children and young people who are involved, and we hear daily stories about what happens when children do not receive the care they need. In my county, Uppsala County, 2 per cent of those seeking help received within 30 days. It can't be like that. This means that parents cannot go to work because they do not dare to leave their children alone. Parents cannot sleep at night because their children try to commit suicide, cut themselves, or do harm in other ways. It is not reasonable in a country like Sweden. There is a single county in Sweden that meets the 30-day period, namely Kalmar County. The Minister talks about money being invested in one and the other, prevention and specialist care. But it's all about now. The money would have been needed yesterday, and it would have been needed three months ago. Views of the need for care and the fact that the queues have become longer began a couple of years ago. Why did the government and the minister not react earlier? In my county, it has been stated that the national mission in relation to the BUP is unclear. It's just about how to handle the first line and specialist care. Why does the government not do anything to clarify? The Minister and the Government propose to allocate 1 billion to a professional billion to get more people to seek treatment, especially for BUP. We know that the government abolished queue billions in 2015 because the government did not think it was good. Since then the queues have increased avalanche. The staff will cease their employment. Who or who does the Minister think wants to go to a bad business where you cannot take care of the patients you want to take care of? What does the government say, and how does the Minister deal with this?
i-3b439118eff079b6-41	Madam President, I would like I will try to take the debate a bit structured. First of all, the cue billion led to evasive effects, and it was also strongly criticised by the professions. Queues started to increase again as early as 2013, and mental illness in society has increased since the late 90s. In parallel, during the last 15 years in Sweden, we have seen problems with competence and staffing related to healthcare that has only increased. In this situation, a queue billion, without the right skills, when it is not possible to hire the necessary staff, means that the existing staff will have to run faster, as they have done. Health and social care professionals are currently tops out on sick leave. This leads to an extremely strained situation in many of the health care activities. The solution to these problems is not an economic stimulus that will make the already stressed staff run even faster. Instead, it is about making long-term efforts to improve conditions, to improve the working environment, to improve conditions. Professional billions, which were introduced already in 2015, aim to train staff, including specialist nurses. Medical training will also be expanded next year. Then there will be people to hire. This morning I visited the Social Affairs Committee. There was also Ing-Marie-Marie Wieselgren, psychiatrist coordinator at SKL. She has visited all BUP clinics throughout Sweden for a period of time together with her employees. She gives a clear picture of problems with the provision of skills in child and youth psychiatry. The problems are combined with the fact that there are still, which is the great concern, an increasing number of young people who feel bad. This includes the unaccompanied minors and others who have come since the refugee crisis in 2015. They have further increased the pressure on BUP. What do we do now? One such thing is, of course, to make the long-term investment in staff, as I explained in my speech. That's why I chose to focus on that. So does this business. It is about making substantial investments in psychiatry in Sweden and BUP, so that there are resources to move around with so that you can take on the problems. But they will, unfortunately, still not be solved tomorrow. If there's no staff, there's no staff. Then there are other problems that go deeper. Therefore, the government is now spending resources on expanding first-line psychiatry for children and young people, that is to say, expanding youth clinics. It is far from all the young people we are talking about today who are going to stand in line for BUP. They should be captured earlier when their problems start to become known, rather than end up in the more specialised child and youth psychology. That's why the government puts the efforts in the way we do. The government provided money as late as mid-year last year – an additional 100 million for children's and young people's psychiatry – so that there will be resources to strengthen the parts needed to respond to the needs. But it's not a quick fix. It is rarely so for complex problems.
i-3b439118eff079b6-50	Madam President, I would like The Minister tells me what it looks like in our country, in psychiatry, especially child and youth psychiatry. I know very well what it looks like. We know that the queues have increased sharply in recent years within the BUP. Why? Has the government set up an investigation or wondered why the queues are increasing? What Is the Cause? One of the professors at KI, Danuta Wasserman, says in an article that there are several reasons for the queues, but you don't really know. Is it not time to find out why young people in Sweden feel so bad and become so many more? I would like to hear the Minister say something about this, which is so important. The Minister talks about all this money being invested. How does the government ensure that that money really goes where it is supposed to go and is used for what it is supposed to do? Several BUP clinics have been closed in my county, and the reception is still at the University Hospital. That reception has not reasonably had the opportunity to receive all the children who need to come there. As the Minister explained to me, we know that every day counts for a child who can get support and help. Every day a child has to wait is negative. Furthermore, we know that distance means a lot. Children and young people who need help and support do not go from Enköping and Tierp to Akademiska hospital. The same is true throughout Sweden. It's not unique to my county, even if I wish it were. I wish it would be better in other places. What are the government and the minister doing to ensure that the money is used for what it is to be used for and for our children and young people? There's a need for trained staff. Yes, it's true. This is one of the reasons why the receptions in the country have been closed – the lack of staff. You added money to this already a few years ago, but obviously they have not come where they are going. Is it now time for the government to take a swing on the matter? One can stand here and say that the queue billion did not do any good, but at least in several places and in several counties we see that the queue billions have disappeared and the queues have increased. So one cannot say that the queue billion was negative, because it served a function. It has nothing to do with it, however. This is about the government that now rules Sweden. What are you doing specifically to ensure that what you want is acted upon?
i-3b439118eff079b6-59	Madam President, I would like I have, of course, explained in a fairly long answer a great deal of what the government is doing and how seriously we view the situation we have. There I can really share Solveig Zanders's entrance – this is deeply problematic and also an area where Sweden and other western countries stand out and have done so for a long time. We have far too many children and young people who feel very bad. It is also the focus area for the work of the national coordinator for mental health interventions together with, among other things, SKL but also the Public Health Agency. During 2017 and onwards, for example, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare works with several issues in the field of mental illness among children and young people. In 2017, comparisons are made in mental illness, both among the elderly and among children and young people. So things are being done at several levels to tackle this problem. Nevertheless, I believe that the lines of child and youth psychology, which we are discussing here today, are deeply problematic. Of course they are, and it is deeply problematic that they are increasing. But it is not surprising that they do. This is very much due to the fact that we have a skills supply problem that has not arisen during this government's term of office – perhaps even during the previous government – but has gradually emerged for a long time. Then we need to think about what we are doing here and now in order to get a long-term sustainable care for children and young people with mental illness, and here I argue with a fool's stubbornness that it is not only about focusing on the queues of the BUP but also about developing those parts in this area where much more needs to be done today. This applies, for example, to the efforts now being made on pupil health to increase and strengthen it and to catch young people early, but it also applies to first-line psychiatry so that, when you see indications of mental illness in children and young people, you can quickly put in measures to ensure that no one becomes so bad that those who are forced to end up in the gender of children's and young people's psychiatry, to specialist care, because that has gone far too far. Those who work professionally with this also clearly point to this. We have a problem here today. That is why we are providing resources to expand youth clinics and student health and to strengthen primary care, but also the skills to meet what is perhaps the most common public health disease among Swedes today, both children and young people and the elderly. In fact, ever since it took office, the government has focused on this area. Also for 2016 – 2018 we have paid SEK 280 million per year to children and young people up to and including the age of 30. But as I said, complex problems are rarely solved with a quick fix. I think it would be extremely unfortunate if this issue were to become a political popcorn variant, as sometimes questions become, where short-term quick solutions were put in place to say that, now, we have pushed down the queues over here a little. In fact, we must be able to focus also on what takes a little more time, namely to build a structure that is sustainable for the children and young people affected and where we catch the young early.
i-3b439118eff079b6-65	Madam President, I would like Yes, it's about prevention. I can tell you that, too. But it is mainly about those young people who are sick today, who need help today so as not to miss school, so as not to do such harm that they carry it with them for the rest of their lives, so as not to do harm to the next generation as well. Of course we should work preventively, but it is about now having a care that can take care of the children who right now, in this second, feel bad. In fact, we must not turn a blind eye to this, and that is extremely important. It is also about following up what you do and seeing what can become of it. The Minister also says in his reply, if I am not mistaken, that 95% of the activities follow up the work of the first line. Why, Minister, don't everyone do that? Why only 35 businesses? Are there any flaws there that you would need to look at? I say it again: it is the cause of children suffering that we need to look at, and I wish that a great deal of focus is put on doing so. We in the Center Party are also investing in BUP, because we think it is important for young people who get hurt. However, I have three specific statements which I would like the Minister to listen to in particular. There is a need for clarity in what is the mission of the BUP. It's about saving one generation here and now – and the next. It must be concrete and clear what you mean by the care we have.
i-3b439118eff079b6-72	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Solveig Zander! Yes, I think what you're saying is very important. Yes, it's about prevention. However, it is also a question of ensuring that children who feel bad today end up at the right level of care. I am very concerned when I look at the queues for the BUP today, because I am far from convinced that the children and young people who are currently in line for the BUP are really going to BUP. I think that many of them are in line for the BUP because the other parts are flawed – that there is no expanded, functional pupil health, that one as a child or young today cannot easily get a first contact and a call support, that the first line is flawed. Instead, you end up in line with the specialised children's and youth psychology. I think that Solveig Zander has a clear point on the mission to BUP, because I can understand that those who currently work in the BUP business experience it as very strained, and also encounter a wide range when it comes to children and young people who feel bad. They face the most traumatized among the unaccompanied children who have come in recent years. Major efforts are needed from BUP's activities but also from other activities to manage it. But they also meet young people who may not really be there and who are at risk of being medicalized and getting a diagnosis or similar that they might not have at all. We also know that today we still have the problem that there are schools that require you to have a diagnosis in order to get extra support in school, even though the legislation does not say that that is the case. We have to deal with that. I very much appreciate the commitment of both the Center Party and Solveig Zanders to this issue and I am happy to continue the dialogue on how we can make this care even better.
i-3b439118eff079b6-77	Madam President, I would like Margareta Larsson has asked me how I view electroshock treatments and whether there are incentives to legislate against this type of care and, as a first step, prohibit compulsive ECT treatments. Margareta Larsson has also asked me what I think should be done to increase patient safety due to a non-functioning adverse reaction registry for ECT treatments. Mental ill-health is a major and growing social problem. Already this year, the Government is allocating over SEK 1 billion for interventions in psychiatry and mental health. The Government's strategy in the area of mental health should stimulate the development of prevention and promotion work in general, but also early intervention to those who are not well or at risk. The funds should be used, among other things, to meet the increased mental illness of children and young people and to strengthen the work of youth clinics. The Government makes the assessment that there is a great need to further expand the investment in psychiatry and mental health. The Government has therefore proposed to strengthen the work on mental health by SEK 500 million for 2018 and intends to strengthen the work by SEK 1 billion per year in 2019 and 2020. The expansion of the initiative is being done, among other things, to strengthen first-line care and specialized psychiatry for both children and adults. The agreement signed by the Government with the Swedish Municipalities and County Council for 2017 stimulates and supports the principals' work on mental health. The Government intends to sign an agreement with a similar focus in 2018. Patient safety is an important issue for the government. As Margareta Larsson mentions, the Swedish National Audit Office reviewed 2015 if the state provided sufficient conditions for a high level of patient safety. In the letter to the Swedish National Audit Office's report on patient safety the same year, the Government made the assessment that the formal support to the carers is sufficient. The Patient Safety Act requires care providers to carry out systematic patient safety work, and the Patient Act aims to strengthen and clarify the patient's position in healthcare operations. The National Board of Health and Welfare had also implemented and planned a number of efforts to support the care providers in the patient safety work, the government assessed in the letter. In December 2015, the Government also commissioned the National Board of Health and Welfare to develop and make available comprehensive support in the area of patient safety, in cooperation with a number of other authorities and, among other things, SKL. This support was launched in 2017, and the agency still has the government's mission to further develop the support. In 2013, the National Board of Health and Welfare concluded that barely half of ECT treatments carried out in 2010 were reported to the patient register. This was partly due to under-reporting but also to the fact that many ECT treatments were carried out by healthcare professionals other than doctors, and then the healthcare provider was not subject to the data obligation. The Government has therefore decided in February this year that patient data on patients treated by healthcare professionals other than doctors in psychiatric outpatient care should be recorded in the Patient Register of the National Board of Health and Welfare. For the sake of patient safety and quality of care, it is important that these visits can also be followed up in the existing register of patients in the National Board of Health and Welfare. Since before, all treatments in inpatient care should be reported. The National Board of Health and Welfare continuously works to develop the patient register, and in 2013 – 2017 the agency is making a major effort to make the patient register better able to meet users' needs. A central starting point in all healthcare in Sweden is that patients should, as far as possible, be allowed to participate and exert influence over the healthcare they receive. Even if a person is cared for under the laws on psychiatric care, this does not mean that all treatment should or should be done under coercion. Care should, as far as possible, seek to obtain the consent of the individual to treatment. ECT is a treatment that is often perceived as very unpleasant for the individual. Finally, I would like to add that the choice of intervention is a medical assessment and not a political one. On the other hand, increasing access to high-quality psychiatric care and improving prevention against mental illness is a priority for the government.
i-3b439118eff079b6-89	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I note the last thing the Government said: the choice of action is a medical assessment and not a political one. Precisely with this attitude, cruel abuse has been permitted in psychiatry even in our close time. And in the future, this also seems to be true of electric shocks. I find it worrying that we have not made any progress in helping people with mental health problems. Not long ago, we approved forms of treatment such as lobotomy and forced sterilization based on our belief in authority in psychiatry. We have turned a blind eye to medical experiments carried out in children in orphanages, such as the famous Vipeholm experiment, which subsequently gave rise to a research debate on medical ethics. Today, in Sweden in 2017, people continue to be injured for life by electroshock treatments, with or without coercion. This is a cruel method of treatment, called ECT today. Unlike in the past, anaesthetics are being performed today so that the body does not stand in a bow, bones are to be broken and teeth are to jump out of the jaw. It was very unpleasant for health professionals to witness such treatment; probably some who have been watching faint. Of course, it is problematic if you are a health care professional and are close by. This is probably the reason why people are being soaked as a patient today. But the same current goes through the brain as before, and it hurts as much as before. The question I am asking is therefore: will this be the next group to demand compensation from the State in the future? We have, of course, had some cases of liability after previous trade unions, such as forced sterilisations. Perhaps it is time that we began to reflect on what is true and what is good care. Above all, perhaps we should ask the patients themselves what harm the treatment has done – not the healthcare professionals, because they are not the ones who have had electroshock treatments. To get back to the last thing the Government said, I would remind you that Ireland has recently banned electric shocks under coercion. India has also banned electric shocks under duress against young people. Some states in the United States have restrictions: California, Colorado, Tennessee and Texas. Australia too has restrictions. Thus, when the use of electric shocks is reduced or banned in other countries, it increases in Sweden. It's quite remarkable. Madam President, I would like There are hundreds or probably thousands of patients and relatives who openly and willingly tell about this. I have done so, and I have heard how chronic memory disorders of both long-term and short-term memory have been reported. It's about losing most of the memories of your life. You forget who your children are and what their names are. They have forgotten their holidays and their education. You can no longer work at work. Local sense disappears. You have to write notes on small notepads and paper and write a diary to remember what you have just done. In addition, relatives have noted personality changes. Patients may suffer from sleeping problems, headaches and aphasia-like symptoms. I don't think this is okay. In fact, we should have gone further when it comes to treating a growing number of people with mental illness.
i-3b439118eff079b6-97	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the interpellation! Clearly, it is extremely important that we discuss how we can improve psychiatric care, not least patient safety. I think that part of the answer I gave is important for this debate, namely that a central starting point in all health care in Sweden should be that patients should, as far as possible, be allowed to be involved in and influence the health care they receive, even if it is a question of psychiatric care. As I said, the choice of intervention should be a medical assessment and not a political one. However, it should be possible to participate as much as possible and participate in the decision in an informed manner. I am sure that the interpeller is well aware of the cases in which ECT is used as a treatment method. It is mainly in the case of very deep depressions, when you consider that the risk of suicide is imminent for the patient in question and in so-called treatment-resistant depression, where you have tried other things but nothing works. Based on this, ECT has both a rapid and quite good effect on these conditions. About 90 percent will be restored. This is also why the National Board of Health and Welfare has this treatment in its national guidelines. However, it is also among the 10 percent who do not experience the positive effect that the negative side effects can be perceived as very strong, according to the patient associations involved in this. I became very interested in getting deeper into this issue when I got this interpellation. The National Board of Health and Welfare and the Inspectorate for Health and Welfare report that more than a hundred patient stories have been received, where descriptions of side effects, often long-term memory disorders, recur. The fact that ECT, on the other hand, can cause short memory disturbances is known from before. These may occur, for example, a few weeks after the end of treatment, but no connection has been found between ECT and long-term memory disorders, according to the research. At least it has not been demonstrated. The National Board of Health and Welfare's assessment of ECT treatment is that it is very important to examine the patient's memory functions prior to treatment and that the patient is given an opportunity to prepare for the memory that can be affected. It is also important that the activity is organised in such a way that the doctor who prescribes the treatment and the healthcare professional who performs the treatment can continuously monitor the effects and effects on memory, both immediately after treatment and after six months. It is of course extremely important that we can clearly monitor how we use different treatments from a patient safety perspective. There it is very worrying about what I also mentioned in my reply, that there has been underreporting. From the government's side, we have decided that patient data concerning patients treated by healthcare professionals other than doctors in psychiatric outpatient care should also be recorded. We need to have a good picture of this in order to be able to follow these treatments as well.
i-3b439118eff079b6-106	Madam President, I would like It is well known that you can get a slight euphoric sensation after some electroshock treatments. Neurologists know this very well. That's what happens when you get a brain injury, and it's just a brain injury that happens when you get one or more electroshock treatments. It lasts for a while, but then it releases the effect. That's how you get back to the same starting point, basically. That's why the treatments are maintained. Patients go in and out and get more electroshock treatments, but it's not a cure, it's just a temporary symptom relief that puts the brain in more damaged condition. In terms of patient safety, there are some issues. We are well aware that reporting is not working as it has been. Although the National Board of Health and Welfare constantly calls for this, it has not happened. It is an incredible cynicism that this should continue. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare's proposed goal for the care of depression and anxiety is now that 40 percent of patients with severe depression should receive electrical treatments. The concern I have about this proposal is that health care should strive to achieve the right target level. It may put doctors in ethical distress to have to reach target levels to be reported annually. We already have a drain pipe thinking when it comes to treatment methods in Sweden. Who knows, perhaps in the future they will consist only of psychopharmaceuticals and electroshocks. The recommendation is that even more teenagers should get electroshocks if nothing else helps. I imagine that people will be brought into the assembly line for a little quick fix. I find this worrying. When all the memories have been stunned, you have forgotten why you are depressed. That's how it works. What a cynicism! I hope I'm not the only one who gets upset about this. We have to react. Given that so many people have had problems with their memory – even if they have not been able to see anything clinically with their long-term memory, which is inoperative – you have to ask the patients. They're the ones who know. The National Board of Health and Welfare also knows that this occurs. I do not think that young people should be placed in such a risky situation. Pregnants who experience electrocution lose their ability to emotionally associate with their children and to be present. There's also a vulnerable group here. I think we should have a discussion about what kind of human view we really should have. Is man an unconscious chemical product to be treated synthetically with electroshocks, drugs and belting? Or are we people with feelings and thoughts-- should we start from our life situation, and do we perhaps have a spiritual need? Where should we meet the human being when it comes to treating mental illness? I think it is important that this is the basis when we see what help is the best we can offer.
i-3b439118eff079b6-115	Madam President, I would like The increasing mental illness, both among the elderly population and among children and young people, is deeply worrying. This is a major social problem today, and we must do everything we can at different levels to meet it in the best possible way. The government, as I explained in the interpellation response, has made major efforts in the area of psychiatry and mental health during this term of office and will continue to do so. At least we propose that it be done. As far as patient safety is concerned, I can only agree with the interpellier's input. We have a patient safety law that places very clear demands on care providers to carry out systematic patient safety work. As the interpellier rightly points out, we can see that there has obviously been a break in this area. As I said, in December 2015, the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare commissioned the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare to develop and make available a comprehensive support in the field of patent security together with a number of other authorities, including SKL. This was launched this year, and the agency has a continued mission from the government to further develop this support. When I listen to this debate, however, my feeling is that the medical assessments of the type of treatments to be offered should be made by the professions. They should be based on research and proven experience and not be issues that are politicised. That is my clear starting point. However, we can, of course, address obvious problems when we see them, and we can debate them. However, it is always relevant to talk about how we take steps to increase the quality of psychiatry. I myself sometimes feel that this is a part of a Swedish health care system that has not really followed the trend. That is why much more needs to be done in the future, both to increase access and to improve the quality of this area.
i-3b439118eff079b6-121	Madam President, I would like This is exactly what was previously considered to be the major problem. We have complete confidence in research. We relied on clinically proven research and science, and we allowed lobotomies and forced sterilizations. We didn't think for ourselves. We did not ask patients and we did not talk to relatives, but we had a blind belief in authority all the time. We still have it today. It's troubling. We should reflect more than we do, for the patients' sake. Let me sum this up. Despite the fact that the National Board of Health and Welfare has been saying about follow-ups for all years – for example, follow-up of electroshock treatments after six months – only 23% of patients do so. Eight out of 29 county councils have reported that it is done for less than 10 percent of the patients. 54% will not be restored directly. 54% will be reinstated. This does not show that it works to 90%. This says something quite different. The sum of all this is: Electrical treatments have been allowed for several decades knowing about these injuries. As a culture within healthcare, correct reports about the number of treatments are ignored. Patients are denied the right information about the injuries. Sometimes no information is given at all. ECT memory examination and six-month follow-up does not work. Patients with lifelong injuries are ignored and not taken seriously. Family members are isolated from their loved ones.
i-3b439118eff079b6-124	Madam President, I would like Nevertheless, I am very pleased that we are taking steps forward in patient safety work. Of course, we need to do a lot more. A reflection that I have made during this debate, and which I had come back to at an early stage, concerns precisely the importance of ensuring that patient involvement is ensured to the extent possible. Regardless of the form of care, it needs to be about strengthening patient influence and that patients can make informed choices. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has previously mapped the scope of ECT treatment in healthcare. A communication sheet on the obligation to provide information on ECT to patients and relatives has also been produced. However, supervision has been carried out which showed, among other things, that assessments of cognitive functions were not carried out in a systematic and structured manner. And, as I said before, there has been underreporting. So there are shortcomings that we need to continue to work on. I'm the first to sign that. I would like to thank you for a good debate on a very difficult issue. I also take to heart what Margareta Larsson said about the importance that we politicians not only quietly accept and embrace but that, although we have different roles in these parts, we take the power and courage to question when we feel that there are indications that something is not right.
i-3b439118eff079b6-128	Madam President, I would like Jenny Petersson has asked me what analysis I and the government make of the development of waiting times in healthcare under the current government and what analysis I do and what responsibility I and the government have for Sweden having among Europe's longest care queues. Jenny Petersson highlights, among other things, in the interpellation, that the government has replaced a working queue billion with a professional billion without demands for counter-performance, follow-up or evaluation. Accessibility in healthcare is a priority for the government. Over time, the availability of healthcare has improved, but for a number of years there have been worrying developments linked to the accessibility measures in the healthcare guarantee. It is worth noting, however, that this development started already in the latter part of the period when the previous performance-based queue billions existed. The embodiment was criticised, among other things, for leading to displacement effects and creative recording of waiting times. Professional billions replaced queue billions precisely because a functioning supply of skills is a prerequisite for good accessibility. The staffing and skills supply problems that exist in healthcare help to reduce the capacity of care and thus accessibility. This may, for example, be about closed care places and cancelled operations. The Government has taken a number of measures and increases the general state grants by billions for the county councils from 2017. Professional billions address the challenges of skills provision. Among other things, funds have been earmarked to stimulate more nurses to further train themselves in areas where national needs are high, for example while maintaining pay. Funds have also been provided for the validation of foreign health training courses as well as for the extension of training places in nursing, midwifery and specialist nursing training. The latest budget proposal also proposes an extension of medical training. The initiative is followed closely by the National Board of Health and Welfare, and the reports that have been received so far show that county councils take their responsibilities as principals and as employers seriously and that they take relevant measures in this area. Employers have an important responsibility for ensuring that the health care work environment and working conditions make it attractive for staff to become employed and remain in care. By supporting county councils in tackling skills supply problems and the staff situation, we can also provide the conditions for shortening care queues. But the government has not only replaced it in several ways problematic cue billions – now there are historically great improvements in health care in addition. In the 2018 Budget Bill, the Government proposes a new investment of SEK 2 billion to improve the human resources situation and develop healthcare operations. The personnel initiative, proposed from 2018, should be used, for example, to review working conditions, increase staffing and develop working methods and more in healthcare in order for healthcare professionals to remain in healthcare. The initiative complements professional billions in a powerful way. Another of the government's new initiatives, the patient billion, is aimed, among other things, at promoting the conditions for increased accessibility. Among other things, it is a question of stimulating a stronger guarantee of care in primary care. The Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare has also been commissioned by the Government to develop the monitoring of healthcare accessibility. Landstingen in Sweden has come different ways in terms of reducing waiting times and needs each to analyse its own waiting situation and the need to take action. Monitoring of waiting times and reporting on the actions carried out are important elements for the responsible use of targeted state grants and a prerequisite for the government to be able to stimulate the development of waiting times in the right direction. Accessibility is a priority which I follow closely. It is, of course, unsatisfactory that Swedish waiting times are long compared to many other countries in Europe. However, the question of accessibility in healthcare as a whole cannot be resolved by a simple measure. The problem needs to be addressed from many different directions because it has several different causes in our complex healthcare system. I believe that the government today, with the historically large investments in healthcare now being made, is making extensive efforts to improve the accessibility of healthcare for patients in various ways. We have not only replaced the queue billions – we have a broad approach to the underlying causes of accessibility problems. These are actions that in a long-term way support county councils to carry out their important mission and to take responsibility for providing good health care. I will continue to monitor developments on an ongoing basis.
i-3b439118eff079b6-141	Madam President, I would like After three years with a red-green government, Stefan Lövven's government, Sweden has among Europe's longest waiting times in healthcare. The healthcare queues are also growing strongly. Between 2007 and 2014, they were halved. The waiting times are now again at the same high levels as we had in 2007. Over 100,000, low in count, are in care queues. More than one in four patients is forced to wait longer than three months for surgery in specialist care. At the same time, Madam President, I will say that there are parts of Swedish health care that we should be extremely proud of. We have employees who work both day and night, I would say. They work around the clock – care does not stop – and do their utmost to make it work for patients and patient safety. But I and Annika Strandhäll should agree that there are extensive problems. Let us agree on a correct statement of reality. Sweden has one of the longest waiting times in healthcare in Europe. Care queues have doubled in recent years. Before that, the care queues had been halved. It is, as I said, 100 000 people who are in care queues, and that is a low figure. The regional differences – this raised Annika Strandhäll herself – are very extensive. Health care is not equal, and accessibility is not evenly distributed. It looks very different depending on where in the country you live. For example, 91% of the patients in Halland had their surgery at the right time in September, while the corresponding figure for Västerbotten was 45% and for Västernorrland 51 percent. I'm proud of you. I'm proud of you. Halland is governed by the Alliance, while the other two are governed by the Social Democrats. But regardless of government, there are huge regional differences. To these regional differences and what I said earlier you can also add that the care is very hospital-heavy and that Sweden has a very weakly developed close to care and primary care – this also means that the differences persist. As I said, patients and patient safety should always be given priority. I received a great answer from the Minister, but I did not get an analysis of what responsibility and what part of this current government itself has. I would also like to mention that when you abolished the queue billions you wrote in your own budget for 2014-2015 that there were indications that the queue billion has led to displacement effects. This is a truth of modification, which has since been tried to correct in politics. It abolished a recipe for success and referred to the existence of indications, but when the queue billions were abolished, it turned out that the reality was that Sweden had the longest waiting times in Europe in healthcare. Thank you for your answer. I do not agree with everything, but I look forward to the following debate.
i-3b439118eff079b6-150	Madam President, I would like Just as Annika Strandhäll said, the queues increased at the end of the period when the queue billions were in existence. So the embodiment was not the means against queues that it was claimed to be. The important thing is to go to the root causes of the queues. Many parts are underfunded. You need to raise taxes, not least in Skåne, from which I come. Above all, however, it is about staff. You have to invest in the staff so that people want to stay in work and so they don't get sick. There is also a need to educate more people. These things go hand in hand. We need to have more training places, which the government has now given us, and we need to ensure that people want to train and work in health care. Here, the government makes massive investments – multi-billion-dollar investments – that go straight into healthcare and into more educational places. So a great deal is being done. In addition, there is now a patient billion instead of a queue billion, partly to reduce queues. On the one hand, this is about patients in primary care being able to get to a health centre more quickly for an assessment, and on the other hand, it is about those patients who have heavy problems, who may have several different diseases at the same time and who have a great need for interventions – perhaps from different healthcare providers – not ending up between the chairs but receiving both preventive and emergency care within a reasonable time. Patients in the latter group are large consumers of care. In this group there are many elderly and multisick. Given the great need for care and how often they are allowed to go in for care, you should invest more in that group, as happens with the patient billion. Anyone who needs to seek medical care for something easier once a year—it can be something very serious—may be able to wait a little longer than anyone who has life-threatening problems and recurrent needs medical care. I also think it is important to point out that patients should not, of course, wait long – no one should wait long – but if priority needs to be given, I think that priority should be given to those who have the greatest need. I think it is much worse if someone dies in a care queue, when the person had been able to survive if they received care earlier, than if someone whose condition is not made worse by the waiting time has to wait. The ambition is, of course, that no one should have to wait, but I do not think we should let go of this with the needs. When we had queue billions there was a tendency in some places that the needs had to stand back for quantity – not quality without quantity. If you could register many with easier conditions so that they could quickly receive care, you could get a share of the queue billions, while not always priority was given to those who were more severely ill. This can have wrong consequences. There are also reports that it had just such consequences, which is serious for patient safety. Health care is ultimately the responsibility of the county councils, but the government has an overall role to support the county councils in different ways. The key is also what happens at county level, over which the government cannot control. In Skåne, from which I come, for example, we have managed to invest in health care. We have invested 6.2 billion since the elections, and we have employed over 2 000 people. Previously, the trend went the other way. A few years ago we came in 21st and last place – that is, an absolute bottom position – but now we are in 8th place. However, there is still much to be done, and unfortunately the bourgeois and Swedish democrats are stopping a tax increase, which would be necessary.
i-3b439118eff079b6-163	Madam President, I would like I think it is important to stick to a correct statement of reality and to conduct the debate in an honest manner. I think, for example, that the discussion about alliance-led or social-democratic-led county councils is quite strange. I am convinced that most county politicians and regional politicians in the country have the focus of delivering the best possible care to citizens. At least that is my picture, whether it be alliance representatives, social democrats or others. Another incredibly important part to establish is that there were problems with the queue billion. Queues started to increase as early as 2013. There were displacement effects. Professiones in health care were highly critical. Anyone who has been involved in municipal and county affairs for some time knows that we have had a cumulative competence supply problem in health care for almost 15 years. Pension departures started to increase sharply in 2011, which certainly affected the fact that the queues soon thereafter began to grow longer. It's not really weird. What was also seen during the time of the alliance government was that financial incentives would speed up the running of health professionals. This was achieved to some extent – we now have health professionals who top the sickness statistics in the country due to stress, anxiety and depression. Two out of three people on sick leave are women, and a great many of them work in health care. This summer many operations were cancelled in Stockholm County Council. People did not get their cancer surgery done because there were no surgical nurses who could assist in the operations. How had a queue billion people solved this problem? Here, as politicians, we must be a little careful and courageous and not sound like a popcorn factory. We need to think about what it is that is taking seriously and in the long term the challenges of health care. That is exactly what this government has done from day one. We replaced the queue billion, which had already lost its impact – it is documented; there are statistics on this – with a professional billion. With the support of the professional billion, we have expanded training places for midwives, specialist nurses and nurses with 1,500 seats. From next year on, we will also begin to expand medical training. It doesn't matter how many queue billions we have if there aren't people to hire. Last morning I sat on the Social Affairs Committee and listened to Ing-Marie-Marie Wieselgren, who described how she and her employees have visited all BUP clinics in Sweden. The problem is not that there is no reinforced queue billion – the problem is that you do not have people to hire. The government is taking this up, both by improving the general conditions for the county councils and by increasing the general state grants. In addition, we are making targeted initiatives dealing with staff and dealing with specific resources. These resources should go to the working environment, to test new working hours, to develop recruitment conditions and to ensure that the staff they have are retained. During the healthcare dialogue that I had in Stockholm and on Gotland last week, for example, the Stockholm County Council said that next year it will use the government's money to increase the basic staffing in maternity care. I think a lot of people are happy about this.
i-3b439118eff079b6-173	Madam President, I would like If we are now to keep to the facts in the debate, it has now been just over three years since the Social Democrats took over responsibility for health care at national level. Now the results are clearly deteriorating in terms of waiting times in healthcare. Care queues have doubled in the last three years. It is great that we clarify the issue of growing care queues, but that is a serious rejection of the policy that has been pursued. Healthcare in Sweden should be given to the patient at the right time, in the right place and maintain high quality. This is what Annika Strandhäll and I agree on, but that is not the reality. Health care should be equivalent, regardless of where you live in the country. We agree on that, but that is not the case. The patient and patient safety should be put first, but unfortunately this is not the case either. The examples I gave in relation to Halland and other county councils show what the reality is. Annika Strandhäll seems to think it's a coincidence, but that's actually what the regional differences look like in our country. I am very concerned that people are not being treated in a reasonable time. And that it is primarily children and older people who are most vulnerable and who father the most badly, we also agree on that. There are certainly many in this House who are worried right now about someone close to them who is getting hurt and standing in a care queue. As I said, it affects all of us, even if you have your own health and do not have to be ill. As I said, our aim as a moderater with the policy that we have put forward in this area is to rapidly halve the care queues. It is only to be seen that during the period of the Alliance the care queues were halved, and we are prepared to take responsibility for doing so again. I do not think that a restored queue billion is the whole solution, absolutely not, but we need several solutions, just as Annika Strandhäll says. But nothing happens after three years of government policy. We Moderates, for example, bring a tripled, developed queue billions. We invest SEK 3 million a year to quickly halve the care queues and shorten the care queues even in psychiatry. We also want to implement the close care, a permanent care contact, which is very important for those patients who want this, given what Hillevi Larsson mentioned. These are the reforms that we are presenting now and that we want to implement now, not wait three or five years to implement. And, as I said, strengthening the entire care chain is extremely important and most important for the sick elderly. We are also investing in this. The legislation also needs to be amended to stimulate and facilitate joint resource planning for county councils, regions and municipalities for the care of the most ill elderly – or for the most ill in general, I would say. This involves coordination and cooperation in the areas of hospital care, community care and other primary care. It needs to be opened up to mobile home care, care for the elderly and so on. Here we make different bets. But it is you who have been in charge for almost three years, and the conclusion is that the care queues are increasing. Unfortunately, that is the case. What is your analysis and responsibility for this, Annika Strandhäll?
i-3b439118eff079b6-182	Madam President, I would like The most important thing is to invest where the needs are greatest. It is about those patients who have the greatest need, but it is also about those county councils that have the greatest need. One problem with the queue billion is that the county councils that have the greatest need do not get part of the queue billions, but it is those that manage the queues that get part of it. The fact that some people are unable to reduce queues is not because they do not care about patients and do not want to give care on time, but because the situation is so stressed. They have too little resources, they are underfunded and they are in deficit in their operations. They have too little staff and also a lack of skills, which not only needs to be related to resources. They simply do not have enough doctors, specialist nurses and nurses. There's even a shortage of nurses now. This is why it is not possible to shorten the care queues. Many are already running twice as fast and many are on sick leave because they are working themselves to death. The resources are lost because the quota has not been met. It is clear that we should have a benchmark, and that is what we have today. We have the objective today that care should be provided in all instances within a reasonable period of time. But when resources are excluded from those who need them most, the risk is that it will get the opposite result, that queues will grow even more in those county councils. The embodiment received a lot of criticism, both because the queues grew and because it led to creative accounting. You didn't really pass the mission, but it looked good in the statistics. Nor should we forget the resources. For example, the county council in Skåne has increased state subsidies, and that's great, but we need to raise the tax too.
i-3b439118eff079b6-187	Madam President, I would like I must again ask you, Jenny Petersson, to whom you did not answer: How will your queue billion solve the problem that there is no access to surgical nurses, for example in Stockholm County Council, which means that you can cancel 20 cancer operations? Those who have worked with municipal and county council issues for a number of years, perhaps especially with staff issues, know that there has been a failure in terms of both competence planning and competence provision within County Council Sweden. I think you're very aware of that yourself, too. At the same time, we had a government for eight years as a priority to send financial incentives into these activities in order to make the staff run faster. How will you get the staff to run faster with your queue billions, Jenny Petersson, when the staff is on sick leave and there are no staff to hire? The Government is making the necessary efforts to secure the long-term supply of human resources in the healthcare sector. That's taking responsibility! And this isn't a quick fix. You can certainly think of something where you can pay for a result somewhere and get results in six months. But it is not sustainable, and that is what it must be. The policy pursued by the Alliance Government in the field of health was not sustainable. Therefore, the queues started to increase long before the queue billions were removed. Here one should be a little honest. In fact, the government has completed extended training places, 1 500 training places for midwives, specialist nurses and nurses. As we now add money to staffing in health care, there will hopefully be staff to hire. For example, the first hill with new midwives comes out at the turn of the year. Perhaps this means that Stockholm County Council will be able to increase the basic staffing in maternity care before next summer so that you do not have a crisis. However, we cannot have a situation such as today where health care staff are peaking in the statistics on sick leave. Newly graduated nurses will be sickened far too much within two years due to stress. Personnel working in the emergency departments start their passports and then do not have time to sit down during the entire shift. This isn't sustainable. We cannot work with incentives that only make the staff run faster, but we have to make real changes. This involves providing resources, trusting our principals, focusing on staff issues, training and ensuring that the staff are able to do their job and assume their responsibilities in our county councils. Of course, I am not satisfied that people should have to wait a single day too long for care. But old solutions, which proved to cease to work two years before they were removed, are the only solution to the health crisis of Mod erats. If you were to do this, it would be an accident for the health care staff who are already on their knees today. It is enough to follow the social debate.
i-3b439118eff079b6-194	Madam President, I would like Here in the Chamber we can mention examples from different county councils and regions. But we have a national responsibility, and county councils and regions have their responsibilities. Annika Strandhäll really likes to highlight Stockholm County Council regarding the care queues at Karolinska and more. What do you do there? Well, the Moderate Finance Council Irene Svenonius sits down with the Health Care Directors and discusses what to do, comes with concrete measures and makes different priorities. That's exactly how you do it around Sweden. But this seems Annika Strandhäll does not want to know, but she constantly mentions Stockholm as a bad example. It is regrettable, because regardless of the region or county councils they are doing a job where they make proposals for no patients to die because of long waiting times in the care queue. Priority is given, and Stockholm, for example, has clearly given priority to cancer patients and children. There is a concrete action plan, which I think Annika Strandhäll is fully aware of. In Moderate Sweden you should have access to jointly funded care of high quality. Care should be given as needed and be equivalent. We also prioritise strengthening health care, reducing care queues, solving the manning flight, improving the health care staff's working environment and so on. It has been over three years with your national responsibility in health care, and the result is that the care queues are increasing. Whether you have new or old policies, this is the result of your policies.
i-3b439118eff079b6-200	Madam President, I would like We will debate this issue more times, Jenny Petersson. However, I note that the signal that is absolutely the most important to send right now in terms of health policy is that the government is making the greatest efforts on health care in modern times. We have increased the general state subsidies in an underfunded operation by over 3 billion. Next year, we will add an additional 5.5 billion to health care. Two of these billions go to one of the things that bother the Swedish people most, namely the staff conditions in health care. The Swedish people understand that this is connected. It is understood that the staff cannot run faster without the health care personnel having to have the conditions to do a good job and can and want to work there, because it is a prerequisite for grazing the queues. It is not about introducing financial incentives that mean that you are creative with the statistics or that the personnel who belong to the most sick in Sweden due to stress should run even faster. It is enough to go to any workplace in the healthcare sector. Let me be clear that I definitely did not raise Stockholm County Council as a bad example. What I raised as a bad example is that the Moderates at national level believe that one can solve the problem of lack of personnel and skills with a queue billion. You don't. Stockholm County Council has very well-lawed ambitions that are about increasing the basic staffing within maternity care. The government is pleased to be able to contribute with resources to make it possible – and also trained staff. This is how policies are implemented that have a real impact, and so will these policies.
i-3b439118eff079b6-206	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me why I have not acted on the issue of consumer protection in beauty treatments throughout my term of office and what concrete measures I would like to see in this area. Furthermore, he has asked me whether I am prepared to introduce a permit requirement for those who want to start operations relating to beauty treatments and whether I am prepared to introduce a system in which the holder of a licensed activity may also take out liability insurance that can replace the person who is mistreated. The system currently in place provides the individual with some protection in performing aesthetic treatments, but the system has been considered to have shortcomings why the previous government set up an investigation in this area, the so-called Beauty Investigation (SOU 2015:100). The investigation proposed, among other things, a new law on the protection of the health of body treatments for aesthetic purposes. However, the proposal was criticised and the consultation bodies questioned whether the proposal would lead to safer treatments. The government therefore considered that it was not possible to proceed with the investigation's proposals. The final report of the inquiry came during the previous part of the mandate, and the referral and analysis of the referrals have taken place in recent years. The Government believes that the issue needs to be addressed even if the investigation's proposal is not considered feasible. Therefore, work was started that resulted in the mission that the government has now given to the National Board of Health and Welfare. The assignment means that the National Board of Health and Welfare will investigate whether aesthetic treatments that require medical competence and that may pose significant health risks should be covered by the same protection for the individual that applies under health care legislation and how this should be regulated. The National Board of Health and Welfare will then investigate whether some of these aesthetic treatments should not be carried out by other than health professionals, as is happening today. The Agency shall also investigate the extent to which personal injuries incurred in connection with aesthetic treatments requiring medical competence and which may pose significant health risks are covered by the Patient Injury Act and which other insurance solutions are needed to provide adequate protection to persons affected by such injuries. The assignment will be reported to the Ministry of Social Affairs by 30 September 2018, and I look forward to the agency's accounting.
i-3b439118eff079b6-213	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer. I suspect that the Government is not satisfied with the government's handling of this issue. People get pinched and injured every day in Sweden because of inadequate and in some parts non-existent legislation. I came across this issue in the last parliamentary term when I was contacted by a number of serious companies active in the beauty business. They asked me to visit and told me that people are injured when surgery and treatments go wrong. Many consumers confuse this with health care and believe that they have some form of protection, but then they discover that they do not. The Alliance government took this very seriously during the last term of office, and just as the Government said in its response, the Alliance Government appointed an investigation in spring 2014. It delivered its report in the autumn of 2015, and if it had implemented all or part of the study's concrete proposals, people had not been caught up now. If you google a failure in beauty surgery, article comes up after article about people who have been squeezed. You can see in local media how many consumer guides say that there is currently no legislation on tattoos and other beauty treatments: "Consumers need better protection," says Maud Öhlund, consumer advisor at ECC Göteborg. ..................................................... In Timrå there is a girl named Lou Engström who has been in trouble. Her face was damaged by the laser treatment. In Skåne, a woman named Gabrielle Malmberg was on sick leave and had to sell her company. I went into it with open eyes, read about medical risks and was pretty clear about what result I could expect. But I could never imagine that if something went wrong, I would not get help. ..................................................... The teeth whitening ripped Elin's gums: Thought I'd lose my teeth.
i-3b439118eff079b6-224	Who will help you if the beauty treatment goes wrong? Maybe none at all. This is what we can do, Madam President. We could read thousands of articles from around Sweden about how people have been squeezed. For me, it is difficult to understand how an investigation could be delivered in the autumn of 2015 and that we stand here now in November 2017 and that the government has recently set up an investigation to be delivered in September 2018. If I have understood the Government's response, this means that for at least a year to come we will be able to continue reading about cosmetic operations that go wrong and where consumers get caught and people can even be physically abused by abuse, but nothing will happen.
i-3b439118eff079b6-227	Madam President, I would like Speaking of the previous debate and of new and old proposals in various areas, the government seems to lack proposals and ambitions. In 2015, the report of the Beauty Investigation Body Treatments – Measures to strengthen consumer protection. It was a long-awaited and requested investigation that clearly showed the need to tighten quality requirements in the beauty industry. Unfortunately, however, after two years no concrete proposals and measures had been put forward to prevent more people from being affected. Instead, the government and the minister responsible announced via the media that there will be no legislative regulation of beauty treatments, even though it is one, I would say, completely irregular in the area and although this may pose great risks to those undergoing treatments. As my colleague said, they have a very weak level of consumer protection. We are not talking about a few hundred, but about thousands who are affected every year. Aesthetic body treatments to change the appearance that people themselves choose to do are not considered to be health care. The current offer in this area has a wide range of actors, treatments and regulatory frameworks. It is in principle free to conduct activities where body treatments are carried out in order to change the appearance without having any medical knowledge, as the various cases mentioned by Lars Beckman testify. As I said, I find it regrettable that the government does not make any proposals, takes part of the report and brings forward various legislative proposals, but puts an investigation into an investigation. The report will also be presented in 2018. In the meantime, many people are in danger of getting hurt.
i-3b439118eff079b6-232	Madam President, I would like That was precisely the problem with the investigation: that it put forward proposals that would mean that those who had been exposed to what has been described here would not be covered by the Health Act. This was the fundamental problem with the investigation. The investigation was submitted in November 2015 and has since been analysed and referred. It received massive criticism and was strongly questioned on the grounds that the proposals did not lead to safer treatments. Building legislation on this then does not make much sense. To be clear about what it was all about, I'll mention a few things. The starting point of the investigation when it was handed over to us was that body treatments are a consumer service that means that it is the consumer protection rules that apply. This was the starting point of the investigation proposals. This did not fall under the Health Act – that was the fundamental problem. The main criticism was directed at the investigation's proposal that surgical interventions and injections should constitute consumer services and thus fall outside the regulatory framework of health care. The second heavy criticism was about the proposal to appoint the municipality as the responsible supervisory authority, where the municipalities were not considered to have the necessary competence to determine whether there are any shortcomings in the activities that would, for example, result in the notification of the Inspection for Health and Care. The third criticism that was made was that many referrals expressed strong doubts about the investigation's proposal not to introduce an age limit for beauty treatments. The fourth comment was that the investigation proposed not to introduce compulsory liability insurance for traders for personal injury related to body treatments. The proposal to introduce a national web-based information service was supported to some extent with regard to the various proposals made by the investigation. Of course, it is not enough to go forward with legislation, but I really do share Lars Beckman's entrance. I appreciate very much that this interpellation is being asked, because that is a very important question. I will be honest and say that the choice we made when we gave the assignment to the National Board of Health and Welfare we made so that this could be done with some urgency and that the professionals at the National Board of Health and Welfare could deliver on the important issues quickly. I will get into them in some of my other contributions, but they will investigate, among other things, whether aesthetic treatments that require medical competence and that can mean health risks should be covered by the same protection for the individual that applies to other treatments under health care legislation. This was the most important thing. In that case, how it is to be regulated is the basic mission to them. It is also a question of certain treatments not being carried out by staff other than health professionals, as is possible today. One should also look at the possibility of being covered by patient injury legislation and look at insurance solutions to protect the individual.
i-3b439118eff079b6-243	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. We therefore fully agree that this is a huge problem, but that seems to be the only thing we agree on. This is a known problem that has existed for many years. Consumer advisors sound the alarm all over Sweden. Desperate citizens discover that it is basically an irregular market. Unfortunately, they discover it afterwards, not before. Today it works so that you and I could basically walk out of this house and put up a sign on the Annika where it says: 中, or whatever we want to give for treatment. It is rather strange that you can intervene in the human body without having a permit. The first thing that should be done, of course, is to ensure that there is a requirement for authorisation when it comes to intervention of this nature. It is also something that has been pointed out for many years. When there is a requirement for authorisation, we, as legislators, can, of course, set out the criteria that we want to have for issuing these permits. I'm sure that's where we can look at whether we're going to have 15 or 150 criteria. But the important thing is that there will be some kind of licensing obligation. When Lars and Annika have obtained permission, someone must reasonably supervise their activities. Today there is, in principle, also a lack of supervision. That is why so many consumers are being squeezed. With the small consumer protection available today, the consumer must report Lars and Annika to the General Complaints Board. What can they try? Well, they can try whether Lars and Annika will correct the error or pay back the money. Of course, if Lars and Annika failed the operation, the consumer may not think it's the best idea in the world that they should fail with an operation on his or her body again. That is probably why they were so clear from the General Complaints Board this summer and said that they did not even want to try this but wanted a different system. There is a great article in Svenska Dagbladet that I hope the Government will have the opportunity to read if she has not. There, a doctor says that people think this is regulated. That is the problem today, that is, that a great many people believe that this market is regulated. The serious companies, which are affiliated with various professional organisations, want nothing more than us as legislators to regulate this market. Of course, for obvious reasons, they want ridding people who are actually harming people today. I know that legislation takes time, and I know that investigations take time. But of course it is not satisfactory that a problem that has been known since at least 2014, and of course has been known before then – that is why the Alliance Government set up the investigation that has made sharp proposals – will not be resolved until 2019 or 2020. Then you can always discuss whether proposal A or B was bad or how to deal with the issue. As Jenny said, every day until then, people can be squeezed, injured and destroyed for life. This is exactly what we can read about in an article in Skåne today, that is, about a person who has his life ruined and whose business goes down because of slowness from us in this House and from the government on the other side of the water. It's not satisfying. Here it takes at least twice as much tempo. It is good that we agree on the problem, but this is totally unsatisfactory.
i-3b439118eff079b6-258	Madam President, I would like I would like to emphasise what Lars Beckman highlighted about permits, licensing obligations and supervision. It is something that should really have been taken up since the so-called Beauty Investigation was handed over in 2015 and since it was announced that an investigation would be set up instead of making concrete proposals. In previous interventions, Annika Strandhäll listed a number of different proposals that you chose not to take on board but to dismiss, proposals that had been dismissed by various bodies. You can certainly do that. But my criticism was that it actually took two years from the so-called Beauty Investigation came in 2015 until this conclusion was reached. Then another investigation was set up. I find that reprehensible or distressing. There are many who lack reasonable protection and who end up between the chairs when things go bad when they undergo an aesthetic physical treatment. The fact that this area continues to be unregulated is, in my view, irresponsible. That is why I chose to enter the debate.
i-3b439118eff079b6-261	Madam President, I would like I note that I fully agree with Lars Beckman on the description of the problems and that this is a situation with which I am not in any way satisfied. At the same time, we have a regime in this country which means that when we move forward with new legislation, we will do so on the basis that we have u t t t t t t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e t h e r v i c e s t h e r v i c e s. What was the case with the so-called "S sex inquiry" and the criticism that emerged during the consultation was that the proposals that were made were unfortunately problematic because they would not lead to the increased protection of the individual who was the whole purpose of the investigation. Then you should not build legislation on it. We received this investigation in November 2015. It has been analysed and referred. We have turned this around and turned it around to see if it would be possible to go forward with parts of this investigation. However, we stated after much if and but that this would not be good enough and that if we are to do this we will do it properly. As a result, we landed in a situation where we realised that this was part of the core issues in order to safeguard this part of the market and secure the rights of the individual who broke, we had to set up a new investigation to look at this. Then we chose to do in the way that we ourselves considered to be most urgent, namely to allow the National Board of Health and Welfare, with the knowledge and experts that they have there, to look quickly at a number of key issues. This means that some of these treatments should actually fall under health legislation, that some of these treatments should not be carried out by staff other than health professionals, that interventions that may involve significant health risks should be covered by the Patient Injury Act, and that we need to have insurance cover to provide adequate protection for people who have suffered such injuries. The National Board of Health and Welfare will also analyse the expected consequences of these proposals for patients, healthcare providers, county councils and the state. Within the framework of this mission, the Inspection for Health and Care shall also be consulted. I also take with me the proposals that have been made here today on the issue of compulsory authorisation to the Ministry of Social Affairs to see if that is something that we should supplement with. Basically, we agree that there is an obvious slowness in this matter. It certainly depends on a lot of different things. But we are also not satisfied that the situation is as it is, but that is part of the market that definitely needs to be regulated.
i-3b439118eff079b6-267	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that we agree that this is a major social problem. What I find very unfortunate is that, for a few years to come, mainly young people will have their lives ruined because they lie down to undergo what they think is medical treatment. I think it is quite good to have a great deal of faith in the public sector in Sweden. When I read these desperate articles in newspapers, I understand that people are very surprised that they do not, in principle, have any consumer protection. I also think it is a good thing that we agree on licensing and supervision. That, of course, makes sense. We need better consumer information. I think that at some point the Government mentioned that you should have, for example, a website or something else. I also believe that we agree that there must be an insurance system in this context. It is also important that when a person goes healthy under the knife, if I may put it that way, it should not burden the public health service if things go wrong without it being reasonable to have an insurance system where part of the price that this person pays is part of a liability insurance policy, so that he or she gets help if something goes wrong. It is also reasonable for the consumer to be compensated if something goes wrong and not just as today – at best – gets the money back. It should, of course, be a financial compensation, which should be a private insurance scheme in which you have proper liability insurance. I can only regret that the government has not acted more quickly. I understand from what the Government says that we agree on this and that she also regrets this. If it's possible to do something faster, I think you should do it. We don't want people to get medically mistreated, simply.
i-3b439118eff079b6-272	Madam President, I would like Thank you for a good and important debate. Of course, I've also wondered if at any point there might have been a situation where we could have been even faster, but I think it's basically about well-meaning – still trying to find parts that we thought we could move on with. One of my first decisions when I stepped in as Minister of Social Affairs was that I said: Now we have to tear this patch off; we can't think about it anymore. We must say that we cannot proceed with this investigation, and we must give a mandate to the National Board of Health and Welfare to get at least some protection in place as a matter of urgency. Thank you, therefore, for a good debate and for good record, Lars Beckman! I look forward to our joint Botox firm in the future. No, I'm kidding, Lars. I'm sorry.
i-3b439118eff079b6-275	Madam President, I would like Tobias Billström has asked me if I will make a proposal for a ten-year primary school in accordance with Parliament's announcements. In March 2017, the Riksdag was informed of the government's considerations regarding the announcements of a ten-year primary school, this in the bill An obligation to offer a school of praise. In September 2017, the bill was presented School Starting at the age of six, prop. 2017/ 18:9. In it, the Government gives a detailed account of its assessments and actions in the light of the Riksdag's announcement. One of the most important things is that compulsory schooling – a cornerstone of the Swedish education system – should begin at the age of six and thus be extended to ten years. All six-year-olds will participate in the education, the school's initial academic year will have a clear and strengthened pedagogical mission and all students will have better opportunities to achieve the knowledge goals for the school. The Government believes that a school start at the age of six can and should be implemented without drastic changes in the basic structure of the school system. The comprehensive school inquiry's proposal for a compulsory preschool class, presented in SOU 2015:81, also received overwhelming support from the public opinion. In order to achieve what has been expressed by the Riksdag in its announcements, the Government has, in addition to the proposals in the proposal mentioned above, provided the pre-school class with clear governance documents in 2016, through completely new and comprehensive sections of the curriculum, which are structured in the same way as the primary school syllabuses. Pre-school education should give students the opportunity to develop towards the knowledge requirements of comprehensive school. The government also invests in continuing training for all pre-school class personnel based on the pre-school class's now strengthened mission. I would also like to take this opportunity to highlight a comment from the National Association of Teachers, who, like the interpellete, wants to see primary school expanded by one year. In their comments on the Council referral on a school start at the age of six, the National Association of Teachers states that the Association shares a large part of the Government's reasoning and hopes that the proposal can be a first step on the way to a ten-year primary school. According to the Association, the urgent shortage of teachers needs to be resolved, among other things, if a new compulsory comprehensive school year is to be introduced. The impact of the reforms should be given time and closely monitored. If at a later stage you would like to transform the preschool class into a part of the comprehensive school, it is facilitated by that the preschool class is already a part of the compulsory school system in Sweden. A reform that would further strengthen the preschool class's educational assignments and students' right to support is the proposals in the bill Reading, writing, counting – an action guarantee, prop. 2017/ 18:18, now to be prepared in Parliament's Education Committee. Through the proposals in the bill School Starting at the age of six and taking into account in this interpellation response the said reforms, the government makes the assessment that the main purpose of the Riksdag's announcements of a ten-year primary school is met.
i-3b439118eff079b6-282	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister of Education. This interpellation is made because it is urgent and important that we all realise that early learning in life means a lot to what happens later, when a person is going through life equipped with the knowledge and skills needed to function as a citizen of society and in a labour market. That is precisely why it is so unfortunate that the government's proposal to make the preschool class compulsory actually involves very small changes in the business. In addition, the proposal affects only over 2% of the six-year-olds who are currently not in pre-school education. I think this is very strange, Madam President, because Sweden, like many other countries, needs to choose to change the ambitions we have in this area and move to an earlier school start. We see that it means a great deal to people. Sweden needs to reverse today's pyramid, where too many students do not get help with their knowledge journey in time. Just look at my constituency, Malmö! It is an example of a city that really has problems in terms of education and where we can see that pupils leave comprehensive school without actually having the skills they should have under the legislation. They don't get help with their knowledge journey. This has consequences. It has consequences in terms of exclusion and in terms of crime. This has consequences for the whole development of what is actually Sweden's third largest city. Many students end up between the chairs when the support and help comes in grade 8 or 9. This is well known; it is not really something we stand here debating as if it were invented yesterday – quite the opposite. The support needs to come much earlier. Unlike the government, the Alliance's proposal means that our six-year-olds in Malmö, Stockholm, Gothenburg or any of the country's 290 municipalities directly benefit from the knowledge goals and evaluation shown in the curriculum – the competence that belongs to primary school – and the right to special support in accordance with the School Act. It follows from our proposals, but it does not follow from the government's proposals. What is the background to our standing here today – the origin of the interpellation? Yes, it is that in 2015 the Red-Green Government changed the directives to the Comprehensive School Investigation. The Red-Greens wanted the purpose, mission and content of the preschool class to remain unchanged and no training of staff to be proposed. It is clear that it is a government's privilege to amend directives, but as a result of these changes to the directives, the investigation advocated a compulsory pre-school class because there was no mandate to investigate the Alliance's proposal for a ten-year primary school. In the meantime, the Riksdag has thus made two announcements to make proposals for the Alliance's ten-year primary school. There are two announcements, not one or nothing, but two. Among other things, the Riksdag wanted the Government to specifically investigate the parts that the Red-Green Government removed, and the Government acted directly against this. Instead, it has now put forward proposals for a compulsory preschool class. How can the Minister for Education, in the last sentence of his reply to me, argue that this would be to accommodate the announcements made by Parliament?
i-3b439118eff079b6-290	Madam President, I would like It now remains for the Riksdag to test. We fully agree with each other that we need to strengthen early support. I want to turn the curve where today we give the most support to the students in eighth grade and ninth grade – where the support comes in late, when small problems have grown into major obstacles in many subjects, when the confidence and self-esteem of the students have been broken down and when it becomes more difficult to catch up. Instead, I want to strengthen early support. That is one of the reasons why the first budget I negotiated contained a major investment in more staff in the early years. From the beginning, the investment was SEK 2 billion, and it has now grown to SEK 2.8 billion to pre-school, primary and secondary schools annually. This has meant that approximately 20 000 new employees have been employed in Swedish schools since we took office. This is more than what the increased litters motivated, and the focus is on the early years. Of course, more resources are crucial to giving students more time and support, but that is not enough. We must also ensure that the support comes in place and reaches everyone. For this reason, we are putting forward a proposal on compulsory preschool class. All six-year-olds are going to a curriculum school. Not only does it affect the percentages that today do not go to preschool classes, but it also affects the status and organisation around the whole preschool class, the school activities of six-year-olds. In addition, from this academic year we have already introduced our own sections in the curriculum for the preschool class and in addition for the leisure centres. They clearly strengthen the educational mission. It's a big change in this 20-year-old school form. The third and important part is to ensure precisely the availability of specific support. For this reason, I have submitted to Parliament a proposal for a guarantee of action. It means that all pupils in the preschool class will undergo a survey. The results of that survey should lead to support in cases where one sees that students are at risk of not acquiring the knowledge needed as a six-year-old in order to later reach the knowledge requirements in grade 3. For grade 1, this is already introduced by a proposal from me on mandatory assessment aid which further strengthens the possibility of special support. This action guarantee has been developed in an investigation by Associate Professor Ulf Fredriksson, previously responsible for, among other things, reading comprehension in the Swedish PISA tests. The investigation directives contain precisely the parts that were moved from the comprehensive school inquiry to Ulf Fredriksson's table. We shared the organizational in an investigation, the Comprehensive School Investigation, and the pedagogical in an investigation, Ulf Fredriksson's investigation. The Guarantee of Action has been welcomed by the National Association of Teachers, the Swedish School Leaders' Association, a wide range of principals and municipalities, both bourgeoisly governed as well as social democratic or red-greenly governed municipalities. The action guarantee has been welcomed by the entire disability rights movement, the Special Educational School Authority and the Swedish School Inspectorate – to ensure that pupils who need it have access to support. In particular, the School Inspectorate points out that if legislation according to the proposed legislation in Ulf Fredriksson's investigation is in place, it can be followed in another way that each school has procedures that lead to that when a teacher identifies a student with a need for special support, the support can be put in place already in the preschool class. Such legislation would reverse the curve we are talking about. In order to achieve what we agree on, all six-year-olds need to go to a school-based curriculum – that's why we've made changes in the curriculum – and the law needs to be tightened up. This is the background to the bill for a guarantee of action that will now be discussed in the Parliament's Education Committee.
i-3b439118eff079b6-299	Madam President, I would like As we look out over Sweden today, we see growing differences when it comes to pupils depending on background, growing up conditions and what happens in school. In particular, it depends on what happens if support measures are launched or are not available early in the training period. We know that if you get support earlier in life, the differences will become smaller later in life. Our offer in this discussion has been that we want to see the introduction of a ten-year primary school where primary school is four years old. That has been our offer in this discussion. This means that six-year-olds receive the education that follows the primary school's learning goals and receive the evaluation shown in the curriculum, the competence that belongs to primary school and also the right to special support in accordance with the School Act. Despite the fact that the preschool class has been around for almost 20 years, we still see evaluations showing that the preschool class around the country is of uneven quality and has too diverse content. This contributes to exactly what I mentioned just now, namely that six-year-olds are equipped from the start with different knowledge of where they live. And that depends not only on where in the country they live, Madam President, but also on where in a city – I will return later to Malmö – or the municipality you live. This should be taken much more seriously by the government, even when the first announcements came. Perhaps the government should have even had it as a priority already when it took office in 2014. But that has not been done. Instead, they have repeatedly ignored the announcements made by the Riksdag and followed their own political will. That may be the case, but there is also a political price to pay for this which the Minister of Education might want to consider. As I said earlier, the Government's proposal for compulsory pre-school class, which is now presented by the Minister of Education here in the speaker's chair as a major and comprehensive measure, affects only the more than 2% of the six-year-olds who today do not attend pre-school classes. I have listened to what the Minister of Education has said about studies and proposals, but at the same time the current structure is being maintained where the preschool class is not allowed to be a real part of primary school. Instead, it's some kind of special solution. It is not something that I and my party, the Moderates, think is good. If the government wants to give all children in Sweden a good and equal school start, why do they say again and again no to incorporate the preschool class into the school form where it would have a natural place? Can the Minister of Education answer that?
i-3b439118eff079b6-306	Madam President, I would like I can really answer that. It is one of my top priorities as Minister of Education to strengthen equality and secure early support. In a more detailed analysis of the proposal put forward by the bourgeois in the Riksdag compared with what we have now presented to the Riksdag, it seems that it is one thing that separates the proposals, and that is the competence of preschool teachers. In analysing the bourgeois proposal, it seems to me that preschool teachers, academically trained experts in the learning of small children, would no longer be qualified to teach six-year-olds within the framework of the school offered to six-year-olds. According to our proposal, preschool teachers will continue to be eligible to teach six-year-olds, along with primary school teachers. Preschool teachers are simply academically trained experts in small children's learning. Preschool teachers who have a modern education also have education in how to meet small children in their reading development, writing development, mathematical thinking and in other parts that are now also included in the preschool class section of the curriculum, sections that we have developed and introduced. Then Tobias Billström lifts a very important part, possibly partly based on a misunderstanding. Pupils in the preschool class have the same right to special support as pupils in comprehensive school. The law gives the same right to special support. On the other hand, there are many pupils in the preschool class who, as well as in primary school, do not receive their right to special support. Although a teacher sees that the student needs special support and extra adaptations, the teacher does not have the mandate to get that support in place. There is a lack of legislation. That was the reason why I took the part of the comprehensive school inquiry's investigation, which focused on staff training and transferred it to a broader study on how to get legislation on continuing education for all existing early school teachers that ensures that pupils from the age of six and above receive the specific support to which they are entitled. The proposal led to the guarantee of action and the read-write-count guarantee that I mentioned according to the proposal put forward by Ulf Fredriksson and which I have now presented to the Riksdag. The action guarantee means that analyses of mandatory assessment support and surveys in the preschool class and grade 1 ensure that there are procedures in place in each school so that a teacher who identifies a student in need of special support together with a teacher with specialist pedagogy skills can carry out an analysis to ensure that the support is in place. It strengthens the teacher's mandate. The legislation also means that the School Inspectorate can review that the procedures that should be in place at a school for the special support to come to a six-year-old, a first grader or a second grader are available at that school. Today, the Swedish School Inspectorate describes that it is more possible to do a momentary supervision for those students who need support right now. You cannot look back at which routines have broken when the student has not received the support that the student needs. That is why so many welcome this legislation. Unfortunately, I have noticed that the Moderates in the Riksdag have raised a motion for rejection of this legislation, i.e. the legislation that comes from exactly the part of the investigation directives that Tobias Billström highlighted as very important. I do not understand the logic of this. If we want to secure special support, we must strengthen pupils' right to special support. There is such legislation on Parliament's table that strengthens pupils' right to support from preschool class through grade 3. I hope that during parliamentary treatment we will be able to find a way forward. This is more important than using to slap a minister on his fingers.
i-3b439118eff079b6-315	Madam President, I would like I have no intention of banging anyone on my fingers. I think the Minister of Education can handle that pretty well himself. That's what he does when he's wrong in his analysis. The Alliance wants to make an overview of all the staff in today's preschool class. There are many who have taken part in the new training that has come into place and which today already has competence. They have the skills to teach throughout primary school. I assumed that the Minister for Education was actually aware of that. Those who do not, of course, need to be trained in order to acquire such competence. It is therefore a little strange when the Government writes in its answer to my interpellation that the teacher shortage is great and that there is not enough teachers to introduce a ten-year primary school. This is the government's main argument for not doing this. At the same time, the government has removed a part of the comprehensive school inquiry that would look at how a good training of staff and qualifications to teach in a ten-year primary school would look like. Of course, if you remove this, there are no conditions for finding out how this can be possible. Why is the ability to develop skills and to be competent if the government now believes that there are not enough educators with the right skills to introduce a ten-year primary school? I think it's important to find out. When the school hours of six-year-olds will be focused on learning goals in reading, writing and counting, it is self-evident that the teachers who are going to teach the six-year-olds have such competence. It is given, and so it is in all areas. We make sure that the people who are going to do a job have the right education and the right skills to do so. That's why the Alliance wants to give an overview of all the staff in today's preschool class. That is a sufficient answer to the question. Finally, I would like to say that I believe that this interpellation debate has shown that the government is still not going to comply with Parliament's announcement. I'm sorry about that. I think it would probably have been better for the political debate on the future of the school.
i-3b439118eff079b6-320	Madam President, I would like It is the Riksdag that now has to assess whether the bill we have put forward corresponds to what the Riksdag has said. I welcome Tobias Billström into the school debate and back on his mission as a Member of Parliament and group leader of the Moderate Coalition Party. However, as a matter of fact it can be said that the division of the competences of teachers in the bourgeois proposal is made between those who are pre-school teachers and primary teachers, not according to what the educations have contained. This will be a problem. In practice, this would mean that a relatively newly trained preschool teacher who has had both reading and writing training in his education would no longer be qualified to teach six-year-olds. At the same time, a primary teacher with an older education from the time when we unfortunately had a rather unguided teacher education, when one could become a primary teacher without any knowledge of children's reading learning, would be qualified. It's going to be a strange division. We therefore believe that all those in pre-school and primary education should receive the training they need in order to be able to give every child what the curriculum for pre-school and primary schools prescribes. We have not removed anything from the directive to the comprehensive school inquiry. On the other hand, we moved the training assignment to another directive. It was the directive that was given to Ulf Fredriksson, who was given responsibility for the educational work, while the comprehensive school inquiry was mainly responsible for the organizational work. Ulf Fredriksson's proposal resulted, among other things, in the proposal for an action guarantee that we have submitted to the Riksdag. If it becomes a reality, the School Inspectorate, the Special Educational School Authority, the National Association of Teachers, the Swedish Association of School Leaders and the collective disability rights movement states that children's right to special support from the age of six and upwards would be greatly strengthened. I therefore hope that we can agree on this legislation. There is much that we can have conflicts about, but not just this.
i-3b439118eff079b6-325	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has asked the Minister for Infrastructure what he intends to do to get rid of abandoned vehicles so that they do not destroy for the country's landowners, give landowners greater opportunities and powers to move abandoned cars from their land and somehow replace the landowners who have been affected and prevented from managing their land because of the abandoned cars. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Vehicles dumped or abandoned by irresponsible owners or so-called vehicle goalkeepers are a problem that I am well aware of. Dumping cars is an environmental crime. The issues raised by Sten Bergheden are not legally straightforward. The possibility of moving these vehicles has been investigated on several occasions, most recently by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency, which has looked at various possibilities to finance the cost of moving and caring for the abandoned vehicles. The proposals for replacement models presented in the report aim to allow abandoned vehicles to be moved and taken care of to a greater extent than is currently the case. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal also includes preventive measures so that vehicles are not abandoned. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's proposal is now being prepared in the Government Office.
i-3b439118eff079b6-329	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the answer and the presentation of what is going on! The issue has been on the table for a very long time, and there is still no solution. There are investigations on investigations, and there are investigations that refer to the fact that we need to look further into some investigations in order to resolve the issue of aid and other things from the European Union. This is by no means fair. In the next step it is prepared at the Government Office, which is so far good. However, I would like to start by asking a few questions which I hope will be answered by the Minister during this interpellation debate, Madam President. When will the preparation at the Government Office be completed? When do we have a solution in place? How does the government intend to solve the problem of dumped cars until we have a new solution in place? Does the Minister intend to extend the right of landowners to move dumped cars on their land? I hope I can get some answers to these questions during the interpellation debate. The problem today is that if a goaltender or someone else drives out a car and dumps it, it can be standing for a very long time out on a landowner's land. This person then has no legal possibility to move the car but must try to get hold of the owner of the car, which is often almost impossible when goalkeepers and those who have dumped the car do not want to make themselves known in this situation. The landowner will then be standing with these cars. It may be in the vicinity of a water protection area, roads or fields and forests, and other things that prevent the farmer and landowner from carrying out their work on their land. So he has no legal means to move the vehicle, but must try to get help from someone else who can. LRF has shown an example of a car that stood in Fristad outside Borås. The car was slaughtered for eight months. It was in the vicinity of a water protection area. Finally, the municipality finally moved away from the car, but by then it had cost the municipality 78 000 SEK to handle the matter. Throughout the whole time there has been a discussion about who will be responsible for the full funding of this. Nobody wants to take responsibility for this, and this is one of the problems. This is not reasonable. Here a landowner has had a vehicle standing on his property that he has to fight to get rid of. In the worst case, it could be several cars that stand along a road. He has no way of getting vehicles off his land. I think we need to include this in the discussion in order to strengthen the opportunities for landowners to move away from vehicles. Madam President, I would like The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has now conducted an investigation on 150 pages. It is a rather solid lunta, but still the basic problem has not been solved, but it refers to the need for new investigations and probably also for approval of the European Union before we can have this carried out. Now the government is preparing this. No one knows at present when it will be ready, but hopefully the Minister will respond to that. Let us begin the interpellation debate with some kind of answer.
i-3b439118eff079b6-339	Madam President, I would like On my last visit to my in-laws, they told me about the horror that struck them when they came home on a dark night and found an abandoned vehicle on their land. This is a problem that is well known to property owners and landowners throughout Sweden. It can be very problematic. Fortunately, my in-laws live in a municipality that does not hesitate to take responsibility. It was a wreck, and the municipality in question acted quickly. I don't have any information on the cost of the council. But I do know many other cases where it has taken a lot of time. The latter also applies to the preparation of this issue, as Mrs Bergheden says. The evidence I received dates back to 2004, when an investigation was carried out. A number of investigations have then been carried out, including in 2007. A variety of governments have commissioned input from authorities and others and asked for solutions. Then why is it taking so long? Part of the answer is what is called state aid rules. In order to resolve the division of responsibilities, one must also have a picture of how it is to be financed and a financing solution. This is the difficult part. It's not straightforward. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's latest proposal is for a producer-funded fund to be set up. But they also discuss other possible forms of funding. Other authorities have recently submitted to the government other proposals on possible ways of financing this, such as compensation via motor insurance, increased fees for sustainability control, a fundraising campaign or using any of the registration fees that already exist and adding a supplement. The difficult thing, to explain to you who are not so into these issues, is that it is not easy to make a clear distinction between a fee and a tax. If there is a tax, it will be a completely different piece of legislation, and the EU will have quite different points of view. The intention to find a solution seems to me to have existed in previous governments, and it really is in this government. I can only be honest and say that this is a difficult question. But it is also relevant to look at this issue a little beyond the complicated law. We have a group in society that is particularly diligent in dumping vehicles in the land, and that is the so-called car goalkeepers. They're not easy to deal with just by changing the rules. I can assure you of that. I worked very much on this issue as I was responsible for traffic issues in Malmö, which has many car goalkeepers. However, I am delighted to note that the work has taken off. The number of cars taken from car keepers and seized by the authorities through cooperation with the Swedish Enforcement Authority and the police, not least on the basis of new conditions, is now much larger. The government also has a special initiative to support the municipalities that have a lot of car goalkeepers. If the authorities seize the vehicles before they are dumped, we save landowners around the country a great deal of concern. It's an important part. We work diligently to find solutions to the difficult legal issues. As a new minister, I have made the mistake of making promises about the time at which such things will be made clear. I will not repeat that mistake. Unfortunately, Sten Bergheden does not get an answer to that.
i-3b439118eff079b6-346	Madam President, I would like Then I can see that I will not receive an answer to question one: when this is expected to be completed at the Government Office. In this way, I do not get an answer to question two either: when we will have a solution in place. However, I should be able to get answers to questions three and four. Question three was: how does the government intend to resolve this until we have new legislation in place? After all, we do have a regulatory framework today that can be applied in some way. Question four was: Are you prepared to look at the landowner's ability to move these vehicles, which can stand in the way and hinder operation and other things on farms and in forests? As the Minister says, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has made a proposal that producers and car dealers should finance this through some form of fund. Bil Sweden has produced another proposal and wants to introduce a road traffic register fee of SEK 20, which could finance it all. According to them, it would be a simpler and cheaper variant than that described by the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency on its 150 pages. I assume that the Minister will take these various proposals with him to assess what is the fastest to come up with. This does not get d race in the long bench. Those who can move these cars are the municipality, the state through the Finnish Transport Administration and the police, often in consultation. When several people or bodies share responsibility, it often means that no one actually takes responsibility. There's nothing going on, but you throw this question between you. Meanwhile, the landowner has to try to hunt down the car owner, which is perhaps the most laborious of all. We have a lot of chefs around this soup. In some way, perhaps we should streamline this to clarify who is primarily responsible for removing these cars. I would also like to see a review and increase the possibility for the landowner to move away from the cars without going into a legal process afterwards because he has moved someone else's property. If someone else drives a car out on your land, you actually have the right to protect your property – forest, field or other – from emissions and other things. Ownership to the ground should be able to weigh heavier when people drive out their cars or goalkeepers drive out cars and put out in nature somewhere. I think that this should be carried along so as to strengthen the ownership of landowners and forest owners. Two questions remain: what do we do in the meantime? Is it prepared to look over and increase the powers of the landowner to address the problem?
i-3b439118eff079b6-352	Madam President, I would like The model of financing through changes in the Road Traffic Register has been included by the Swedish Transport Agency and the Swedish Transport Administration in a letter to the Government, so that proposal is part of the preparation that takes place within the Government Office. It has clear advantages, but even there it is not quite clear whether it cannot be interpreted as tax financing to use that model, and it is as soon as you get closer to it that it becomes difficult. No model that we have is quite easy to implement. That's the truth. The Environmental Protection Agency's solid report has looked at the issue raised by the honourable Member about moving grounds, i.e. when you can move a vehicle. It proposes a new ground for moving the vehicle if there is a risk of damage to plant and animal life or other damage to the natural environment. It is a broader basis than that which exists today, which is also what I understand the honourable Member is calling for. However, the Authority points out that such a relocation basis should not be implemented until the financing issue has been resolved. We'll get back to it as the key to this. It is essential that we find a solution to this issue. In the meantime, the government is working very actively to curb the problem of car goalkeepers, which we know is an essential part of this problem. It is a very manual work that is taking place here and now and which reduces the number of vehicles that should be scrapped but still are on the roads and in many cases dumped. Not least is this linked to organised crime, so there are many gains in reducing the number of vehicles on the road by hand. It also has a very practical and clear effect on Sweden's landowners.
i-3b439118eff079b6-355	Madam President, I would like I have also noted that opportunities have been given to move for various environmental reasons and other reasons. However, I would like to go a little further and give the landowner the right to move away from a vehicle that stands in the way or is an obstacle at work or otherwise, at least after a certain number of days. It should not be like in Borås that a car stands for seven eight months waiting to become a wreck, where there are people there at night picking off the car, traffic and other things. It doesn't make sense anywhere. It should be reasonable to move the vehicle to some other place. In this way, it is necessary to further clarify the wording if you go further in this situation and strengthen the ability of landowners to move vehicles. I still have to ask you a question. Does the Minister and the Government intend to make a proposal within this term of office, before it will be allowed to resign after the 2018 elections? Will there be any proposal during this government period, or is it the new alliance government that will have to take over the issue and try to resolve it after 2018? Does the Minister have any indication as to where it might go? Otherwise, I'll have to thank the Minister for the answers. I understand it's complicated. But that doesn't mean it can't be solved. It is important that responsibility is restated, who can move the cars and ensure that a financing solution is found that is reasonable both for car owners and those affected, municipalities and others who are going to take care of the business. I think that's a good part. I just want the Minister and the Government to speed up the pace somewhat, given that it has been a problem for a long time, as the Minister himself said since 2004. Maybe we need to figure it out in the near future.
i-3b439118eff079b6-360	Madam President, I would like Sten Bergheden has raised an important issue. It is obviously extremely frustrating for landowners who get vehicles and other litter dumped on their land and have a responsibility to take care of it. There'll be a lot of calls and expenses. I fully understand the frustration it arouses. There should be no confusion as to who is responsible. We need financial solutions that work so that it goes on. We also need to identify and address the systemic problems of using cars close to scrap as part of their activities in organised crime. There's a lot of money in it. It is also linked to very serious crime. There are many reasons to get rid of the cars completely and to find a financing solution. After that, we can resolve liability issues and the legal parts for when you get to move the cars. It needs a little better order. Thank you for raising the question.
i-3b439118eff079b6-364	Madam President, I would like Tobias Billström has asked me whether I have ensured that analysis and basis for the investment in the premium for electric vehicles have ensured the cost-effectiveness and climate benefit of the proposal. He has also asked me what conclusions I draw from the increase in Swedish emissions during my term of office. As Tobias Billström mentions, the government has presented a budget investment of SEK 5 billion in 2018 on climate and environment. It is the largest environmental and climate budget ever. The Swedish Parliament decided in June on ambitious Swedish climate targets including a target to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from domestic transport by at least 70 per cent by 2030 compared to 2010. A Trafik Analyst report states that only half of the emission reduction will be achieved with current transport instruments and states that different types of new instruments will be needed to achieve the target. In many cities there are problems with air quality and great competition for land. Road traffic is the main source of increased levels of air pollution. Unfortunate thinking patterns often mean that the car is chosen instead of the bike. Tobias Billström is still in this pattern of thought while the government is looking forward. Good urban planning provides better conditions for transport efficient cities where more people have the opportunity to manage their everyday lives without their own car. An initiative proposed by the government in the 2018 budget bill is the electric vehicle premium that allows more people to choose light electric vehicles, especially electric bicycles, for their daily journeys. Research in this area shows that e-bike use can lead to reduced emissions of air pollutants and greenhouse gases as a result of reduced car use. Increased cycling also provides positive health effects, reduced congestion and increased opportunities to plan sustainable and living cities. A broader perspective is needed when we look at how policies can be designed to give us a better, more attractive future society. In that society, public transport, cycling and walking have an important role to play, not least in cities. As Tobias Billström mentions, sales of electric bicycles are increasing. The same applies to electric cars. We are very much in favour of this development. In order to accelerate the conversion of the fleet of vehicles, the Government proposes the introduction of a bonus – malus system and a premium for light electric vehicles. The Government will closely and continuously monitor the climate and environmental impact of the electric vehicle premium. The claim that Swedish greenhouse gas emissions would have increased during the term of office is based on statistics from SCB, which also includes emissions from international transport. Since these emissions are not part of the national climate targets, SCB's figures do not give a true picture of emissions development in relation to the targets. Emissions vary from one year to another depending, for example, on economic activity and temperature. In order to evaluate the impact of climate action, a longer perspective is needed. Emissions in Sweden have decreased for a long time but need to start to decrease at a faster pace if we are to achieve the climate policy objectives adopted by the Riksdag. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's forecasts show that the government's policy in the long term reduces emissions. When we took office, the gap in relation to the 2020 target seemed to be 4 million tonnes in order to reach the target of national measures. My ambition and that of the government is that the goal should be achieved as far as possible through domestic measures. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency estimated last summer that the gap is now barely 1 million tonnes in order to achieve the objective of national measures. How much the government's investment reduces emissions, including later budgetary efforts, we still have no precise figures on. However, our expert authorities are constantly making new estimates in order to provide the best possible basis for our continued policy development.
i-3b439118eff079b6-371	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer here today. That is not much of a response, I have to say, because the Minister completely avoids answering the question that was asked. The question to which I wished to respond in the interpellation was: how has the Minister ensured that analysis and basis for the investment in the premium for electric vehicles have ensured the cost-effectiveness of the proposal and its climate benefits? Those were fine words from the Minister for the Environment, and I agree with a great deal of them. We only have one globe. It is important that we safeguard it and ensure that we have the effectiveness of the measures we propose to tackle the climate problems. One might have thought, however, that she should have been a little more focused. The short and simple answer to the robbery the Minister for the Environment would have been: nte at all. In fact, the minister doesn't know. This was already apparent when the minister's colleague Isabella Lövin presented the proposal. She stated that the government would ask the responsible authority to count on it. It is clearly stated in the Riksdag minutes. The fact is that the ebicycle boom has come about almost entirely on its own. Last year, the market had already grown by almost 50 percent without government subsidies. I am, by the way, a part of this. I own an electric bike. I bought it without any subsidies. I am not pointing that out as an example. However, I can point out that the measures highlighted by the Minister here have reason to look at them a little more closely. I would like to ask the Minister whether it is correctly understood that the government spends more than a third of a billion of taxpayers' money without knowing whether this will produce actual results. If the Minister thinks that this is not the case, what benefit does the e-bike premium provide?
i-3b439118eff079b6-376	Madam President, I would like What we certainly know, or have good support for in research, is that electric bicycles act as a substitute for cars. Just the electric bike leads to the transfer of journeys in everyday life from car to electric bike. This has a stronger impact than investments on bicycles without electricity support and also stronger impact than investments on public transport. There are especially groups in society that seem to be more likely to travel where it is possible to choose the e-bike instead of the car. It has a good impact on the environment if we get this change in behaviour. There will be effects on noise, air quality and climate. It is also well documented in the research that this type of change has good health effects. Taking into account the effects of this, the impact on health, measured and fiscally, is likely to be the largest direct visible effect on the national economy because ill health is subject to such high costs. When designing a policy, it is obviously better to find a measure that has several benefits and more types of effects. In this way, the electric vehicle premium is an effective measure because it has several benefits. The narrowing of the whole into a single perspective does not lead to finding the most effective efforts. I would like to look back to the time of the previous government when they decided on the so-called super-environmental car premium. When it was introduced, a positive development had just begun for electric cars. The government at the time chose to institute the super-environmental car premium against, among others, the Conjunkturinstitutet's criticism, which in principle is literally the one that Tobias Billström now says here in Parliament today. However, the government at the time chose to go forward with a super environmental car premium. I suppose there were other effects than those of purely climate policy or something else. Maybe Tobias Billström knows more about that than I do because he was in that government. We are well aware of this type of argument against environmental economic instruments. It is often based on a far too narrow approach. Good instruments are those that have several benefits. Getting a big transfer from the car to the electric bike will make us more healthy. It will make the air cleaner and the environment quieter. We will be able to make more efficient use of the common infrastructure. A lot of people will benefit from that.
i-3b439118eff079b6-381	Madam President, I would like I don't know if my approach is very narrow. I own an electric bike, but I don't own a car. I think probably because I have pretty good feet when I stand here arguing for my views and values on the issue. I can certainly agree with the Government that one should not draw too large conclusions from individual years. At the same time, however, I can say that the development we see is part of a trend. Speaking of the Minister's criticism of the previous government, I would like to point out that in 2015 the reduction in emissions in Sweden stopped and then increased in 2016. So it is during the time of the Environment Minister in the government that we see an increase occurring. Karolina Skog and the Green Party do not talk about this very much, but we must do so in order to complete and complete the debate. This cannot be ignored. It is therefore even more inexplicable that the government does not ensure that every invested crown and every measure that is proposed also generates climate benefits. I do not know if the Minister for the Environment is so pleased with the list she made here earlier in the debate of all the efforts that the government wants to make in the budget that she forgot that it is not about quantity but about quality when we talk about measures to combat the climate threat. The government is still unable to provide an answer as regards the electric bicycles and their actual benefits. It was good that the Minister addressed the Institute of Economic Development because she also ignores the criticism of the Institute of Economic Development. The vast majority of government efforts receive significant criticism because they are either not cost-effective or effective. Is it the government's environmental policy? Is this what you show the voters a little less than a year before we go to elections in this country?
i-3b439118eff079b6-387	Madam President, I would like The Parliament has, in broad agreement, made two incredibly important decisions: one in a climate policy case and, not least, one in relation to a sector target for transport. The preparation in which we jointly produced the proposal, the Environmental Objectives Committee, jointly stated that in order to achieve this goal, new instruments are needed– which is quite clear. The view that more new instruments are needed to reach the target has later been confirmed both in research and by our expert authorities. The government has presented a wide range, a palette, of proposals for measures involving different parts of the complex transport system in order to have a combined effect and to bring about a change. On the part of the Moderates and the Opposition, it is almost compactly silent when it comes to new proposals to achieve the goal. It is indeed a weakness that worries me very much that we can agree on objectives but that in the discussions on how to actually achieve the goals, the opposition is worryingly silent. When we work with transport policy, the climate policy framework is an incredibly important framework. But we should never repeat again the mistake that has been made in so many parts of the country, even by previous governments, which have isolated climate issues from, for example, air quality and noise issues. We need to find measures that are capable of meeting several problems at the same time, because traffic has several effects. Here transfer from car to bicycle is one of the most effective things we can accomplish. It is also crucial for us to achieve sufficient efficiency in the transport system. The greatest potential for an efficient transport system is precisely this type of migration in and around our cities. This type of change will also have positive effects on what it is like to be and live in our cities and how we can share the common space. In this perspective, support for infrastructure and strengthening the ongoing electric car boom will be a recipe for success. This is something we will be able to analyse in the future as success factors. It is fantastic to see how Swedish producers of electric bicycles can now hire and increase their production. There's a lot of demand. It will also be exciting to see how this will affect our cities. It will impose new demands on the infrastructure. We will need to improve the cycling infrastructure so that you can cycle both a little faster and a little slower. Many people also choose to cycle in the more traditional way, and you have to find an interplay between them. Not least do I believe and hope, however, that we will be able to see positive health benefits from these measures. It's very important. Pacific is one of our really big social problems, which we should not leave to health policy to deal with. Above all, it needs to be solved through opportunities for people to move around in everyday life, and cycling regularly is then almost unbeatable as an effective measure.
i-3b439118eff079b6-393	Madam President, I would like In his speech, the Minister for the Environment talks about how to achieve the objectives. How are we going to reach them? At least we do not reach them by implementing a policy that is not evidence-based. The Government itself expresses to me here today in its response that we do not yet have precise figures on how much the government's investment reduces emissions with subsequent budgetary efforts included. That is what the Minister for the Environment says in his reply; it is nothing that I have made up. Then we have to ask ourselves the question that I made, which was the origin of the interpellation, namely: why can the government not provide any evidence to support the policy that you are now launching in connection with the budget? Climate change is one of the greatest challenges of our time. We must take that challenge very seriously. I was in a government that really did. Climate policy must focus on reducing global emissions rather than moving them around, which was and is a fundamental idea of the policy that my party represents. Each invested chandelier must provide the greatest possible climate benefit. We have neither the time nor the money for inefficient climate action that lulls us into a false sense of action. The Government states that the Government will continue to engage in policy development and that, in this situation, the expert authorities' estimates should be used. Then I wonder, as I have done several times during this debate without receiving an answer, how should the Government and the Government ensure that the proposals made by the Government have clearly calculated the climate benefit before they are implemented? That remains the central issue, and we will have to take it with us to the next debate, the Minister for the Environment, because I assure you that we will be here many times from now until election day.
i-3b439118eff079b6-397	Madam President, I would like I find it rather entertaining that Tobias Billström chooses to quote in principle literally criticisms that, among other things, the Conjuncture Institute directed against the government he himself sat in and now use what he chose not to listen to, because he nevertheless went forward with exactly those instruments, in order to disguise current environmental and climate policy. A big difference between this and the previous government is that, in addition to taking the climate issue seriously, we have a comprehensive policy for the environment and climate and are looking for measures where we both correct climate issues – air and noise – and look at whether we can find measures that are also health-promoting. We are trying to identify measures that have several benefits. This approach is well grounded both in transport policy research and in research on how to build sustainable urban areas and communities and create built-up environments for transport efficiency. It can also bring benefits in terms of attractiveness and improved health, for example in cities that are good for commerce, entertainment and culture. There are measures that allow you to get all of this, and the electric vehicle premium is one.
i-3b439118eff079b6-401	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me what measures I intend to take to ensure that Parliament's intentions regarding the number of wolves in Sweden are respected. Beckman also wonders why I have not returned to Parliament with a new proposal for a decision and what concrete measures I have taken to ensure that the wolf tribe in Sweden has a different concentration than just Gävleborg, Dalarna and Värmland. I agree with Lars Beckman's view that it is important that we have a predatory policy that has popular acceptance. In order for us to have a faster, efficient and equivalent decision-making process, the government has introduced urgency requirements in cases and cases of hunting for large predators. The administrative court in Luleå has been made a special court for the review of such cases. In order for decisions on the hunting of wolves to be reviewed before the hunting period starts, the decisions of the county administrative boards must, as a general rule, be notified no later than 1 October. The then government stated in its 2012 bill A sustainable predator policy that after the Parliament's consideration of the reference value for the wolf population size, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency should complete the reporting to the European Commission of species and habitats conservation status under the Species and Habitats Directive. In addition, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency must indicate, in accordance with the applicable rules, an assessment of where the reference value is within the range 170 – 270 wolves.
i-3b439118eff079b6-403	However, the Swedish wolf tribe has had a higher inbreeding rate than is considered acceptable. After the vulnerability analysis was criticised for not taking into account the genetic aspects, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency was commissioned in 2015 to update the existing vulnerability analysis for wolf on a broad scientific basis. On the basis of it, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency would investigate what is required for the wolf population in Sweden to be considered as having favourable conservation status under the Species and Habitats Directive. The analysis was based on two scientific reports, from two research groups in Sweden and the USA respectively, about when the Swedish wolf population is considered to have favourable conservation status. It showed that given that the Swedish and Scandinavian wolves are part of the northern European wolf population, at least 300 wolves are needed in Sweden and that at least one immigrant wolf from Finland or Russia reproduces with a Scandinavian wolf under natural conditions every five years. The Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has the overall national responsibility for predator management. The work has delegated the right to decide on wolf hunting to the relevant county boards. The government cannot have any views on the county boards' assessment of matters relating to hunting and hunting for wolves.
i-3b439118eff079b6-406	Madam President, I would like If we are to have a wolf tribe in Sweden – which the Swedish Parliament has decided we should have – it is important that there is popular acceptance and broad support for predator policy, even outside Stockholm and Södermalm. This is particularly true in the counties concerned. The allocation for wolf hunting in Gävleborg decided by the County Administrative Board is counterproductive of the goal of popular acceptance. As Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog says, the Alliance last term presented a predator proposal. In connection with this work we travelled around a lot in Gävleborg. We gathered those interested in game conservation – hunters, Swedish Rovjursföreningen, county boards, police and municipalities. We did a good job. Maybe you didn't realize just then how good it was. I believe that the Government mentioned what was achieved, including that it should take socio-economic considerations into account and that domestic animal husbandry should not be significantly impeded. Of course, it offends when inventories of wolves in Sweden show that there may be up to and perhaps even more than 400 individuals. When it says, just as the Government said, that we should have 170 – 270 individuals, it will be quite easy mathematics; 400 minus 22 will be substantially more than 170 – 270. The number of individuals is one thing. The second thing is the spread of the wolf, which worries me. I don't know how often the Prime Minister reads the Ljusdals-Posten, but if she does, she might have read the news about the preschool that didn't dare have the children out because of the wolf about a year ago. They wondered what they would do if there were to be a wolf and they were a staff of twelve children. If anything, it would well show that more socio-economic considerations must be taken into account. I can understand the parents who are afraid to have their children at Linblomman's preschool, when there were a number of wolf attacks. We haven't even talked about the 14 sheep killed in two wolf attacks in a week. It is a huge concern for small businessmen in Ljusdal who breed sheep when they are attacked by predators, in this case wolves. It has often been too slow to decide on licence hunting and protective hunting. Although the Government says that the process has been speeded up, it has obviously not gone fast enough. Madam President, I would like Today, a grey dog has been killed by a wolf in the northern part of Gävle municipality. This morning a hunting companion, a dog, has fallen asleep after being attacked by a wolf. I think it is very important for the government to make an effort to ensure that our responsible authorities follow Parliament's intentions so that we can have acceptance for the wolf, even in Gävleborg and in the three four counties concerned.
i-3b439118eff079b6-414	Madam President, I would like I think that the Minister for the Environment's response is rather strange in relation to his mission and that of the government, namely to ensure that Swedish legislation is complied with. As interpeller Lars Beckman has mentioned, we had a predator bill in 2013. There the number of wolves was numbered. It defined favourable conservation status and also stated in the bill that the conservation status would be maintained. Now we are approaching a situation where we have twice as large a wolf population as the one established in the bill. Then it is remarkable that the Minister for the Environment is in the speaker's chair saying that the government cannot take any responsibility for this. It is the government that governs the kingdom. It is, of course, the case that the government has to take responsibility for ensuring that the existing legislation is also complied with. There is no blame on administrative authorities in this context, because it is the government that ultimately governs the managing authorities. I can also find it remarkable in this context that, earlier in October, on a written question from Erik Ottoson, the Minister for the Environment announced that the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency has received a new government directive, despite the fact that the Swedish parliament – Sweden's highest decision-making body – has numbered the number of wolves that should be considered to correspond to favourable conservation status. It seems to me very strange that the government can, on its own initiative, review the decision that has been taken in this House and give a new directive to the Environmental Protection Agency – very strange. My question, therefore, is simply what measures the Minister for the Environment intends to take to ensure that Swedish legislation and the bill that we voted through here in 2013 are actually complied with in practice.
i-3b439118eff079b6-419	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. The wolf issue is extremely engaging around the country. When I travel around Sweden I notice how people start to give up and sad. They don't dare keep their tambodity. They've lost dogs. They have lost the hunt – there are only wolves in some areas. People have simply, for various reasons, been saddened to remain out in the Swedish countryside. This is serious, given that we have just adopted a food strategy that says we are going to increase food production in the country. In order to be able to invest in that part, we need to have more domestication and raise more animals in Sweden, and then the wolf is clearly limiting in some areas. This was why we made a joint decision that we in Sweden would have a wolf tribe covering 170 – 270 wolves. The subsequent inventory found that the number of wolves on which there is some form of documentation is up to 430. We don't know if there are any more wolves in the country, but it's not entirely unlikely– there are certainly more wolves than the inventory came up with. Madam President, I would like The Minister said in his reply that she agrees with the interpeller that we must have a wolf tribe that has popular acceptance. We now have twice as much wolf as Parliament once said could be a reasonable level for Sweden, or perhaps even more so. Does the Minister think it reasonable that we have twice as much wolf, and does the Minister think that there is popular acceptance for the wolf tribe that exists in Sweden? When I travel around Sweden I feel that there is no such popular acceptance. I am talking, above all, about the areas that have wolves. I can imagine that those areas in Sweden that do not have wolf are not particularly concerned about the wolf being found somewhere else in the country. This is a major problem. We stand here in the Riksdag and talk about that the wolf tribe that we have would be distributed across Sweden in a different way. By then the 170 – 270 wolves had landed on a completely different level of density. However, the wolf tribe in Sweden is very concentrated in Central Sweden and Norway, which means that the wolf tribe in these areas is among the densest in Europe. Then it is not difficult to understand that those particular areas have problems. These areas say that they cannot cope with this wolf pressure and that something must be done about it. My question is whether the Minister is prepared to give other directives or to change the regulations of the county administrative board with a directive that we need to review this and achieve what Parliament has once decided: 170 – 270 individuals. Is the Minister prepared to take any initiative in order for us to land at the level supported by the Swedish Parliament? In fact, the parliament is the decision-making body in Sweden – is the minister prepared to ensure that this is carried out? Madam President, I would like I return to the question I put to the Minister at the beginning: Does the wolf tribe that we have today have popular acceptance in Sweden?
i-3b439118eff079b6-430	Madam President, I would like Very wisely has been said here by my three moderate colleagues. It is clear that the issue of Swedish predatory policy and the question of the conditions for living and living in rural areas is an issue that concerns and engages the Moderates. I am elected by and living in Värmland County. It is a county that has not only wolf but about half of the Swedish wolf tribe, which is thus far larger than the wolf tribe that the Riksdag has decided on. This means that the wolf tribe decided by the Riksdag is located in Värmland. Of course, if we go outside and look outside Parliament's doors, the wolf is not a big problem. Nor is it in our other metropolitan areas or in other cities, but it is in rural areas in parts of Sweden that it is a problem, as has been said earlier in the debate. It is basically a band over Central Sweden, and this does not include the City of Stockholm. In order for the whole of Sweden to have the conditions to live, in order for it to be attractive to live and for people to feel safe, it is important that we have a functioning predator policy. It is important that we have a predatory policy and legislation for which there is popular acceptance and that we can ensure that the legislation is followed up and enforced and that people like it. The fundamental issue, however, is another. I reacted that, based on what the Minister said earlier, it seems that decisions taken by Sweden's highest political body, the Riksdag, are not something that the government takes notice of. The government seems to have its own line without popular support. Now it is the Minister for the Environment, who represents the government's one party, who is here. I might have to write a similar question to the Minister for Rural Development and see if there are the same views on government politics or whether you are on a collision course. Is it true that the Green Party, the Social Democrats and the government as a whole actually think that instead of living up to what Parliament has decided on, we should increase the wolf population? I cannot interpret the Minister's answer in any other way than that this is her ambition and that of the government. This is my specific question to the Minister for the Environment: is it the case that the Minister believes that the decision taken by Parliament should not be complied with? And is it the case that the Minister believes that the number of wolves in Sweden should be greater than what the Riksdag has decided on and possibly also greater than the number of wolves in the country today?
i-3b439118eff079b6-438	Madam President, I would like Both humans and predators should be able to live in Sweden. Therefore, it is important that we do what we can at all levels to make it work as well as possible. We must have a policy that protects both man and animal. The Government believes that Sweden should have a long-term viable wolf strain. The overall objective of predator policy is to ensure that wolves and other predators have a favourable conservation status while keeping domestic animals is not significantly impeded and other socio-economic considerations can be taken into account. The formal framework that we work on predatory issues includes, among other things, the Species and Habitats Directive, which aims to contribute to sustainable development by promoting biodiversity while taking into account economic, social, cultural and regional needs. What the government has done with regard to predatory issues is to create order and to regionalise hunting decisions. This creates predictability and ensures a factuality in dealing with the issue of the number of wolves for hunting, which is based on the facts of conservation status. A critical factor, which we must keep track of if we are to have a viable wolf strain in Sweden, is inbreeding. Inbreeding threatens the Swedish wolf, and we must follow the inbreeding quota in order to ensure that the wolves are well. Prior to the decision taken by the Riksdag during the last parliamentary term, there was a basis from the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency. The subject received scientific criticism. What is now so much at stake in this Parliament is that the government gave the authority that had left the data, which had received scientific criticism, the task of exposing the data to scientific scrutiny. Two teams of researchers, one from Sweden and one from the United States, were brought in to examine a critical point that was just about inbreeding quotas. After their analysis, the expert authority came to the conclusion that 300 wolves are needed in Sweden and a reproduction of genes from populations from Finland or Russia every five years to enable the wolf tribe to live on. This type of rational management in close cooperation between expert authorities and research is the kind of requirement that the government imposes to maintain good order in predatory policy. It creates predictability and objectivity. This is opposed to a different approach that politicises issues of a scientific nature and makes policies of what is to be assessed by experts. It is a clear dividing line in our view of these issues. Of course – it shouldn't have to be said – this is the government's overall policy.
i-3b439118eff079b6-446	Madam President, I would like For four minutes, the Minister for the Environment is talking, but she does not answer any of the questions that have been asked here. Of course, the main issue for this interpellation debate is: why does the government not ensure that the authorities comply with Parliament's decisions? It is a provocation to the countryside, Madam President. In another debate I had with the Minister for the Environment, I noted that there is a rural uprising in Sweden. For many – those who do not live in Stockholm, on Södermalm, and do not ride the subway – it is a punishment to live in the countryside. They've been given shock-raised gas taxes. We are going to introduce mileage taxes, and we are going to cut down on the infrastructure. In Gävleborg County, roads will be converted from asphalt roads to gravel roads. And the government does not respect Parliament's decisions. It is a gross provocation, because during the last parliamentary term the alliance government developed and created the order that Karolina Skog and the government had to manage. This creates such strong frustration, Madam President, that I have even seen people in the Ljusdals-Post say: Shoot all wolves! Of course, this is said in frustration provoked by this government. I have full respect for the fact that the Green Party does not want hunting, hunting for wolves or anything else. There were many of us who warned about what it would mean when the Green Party was given responsibility for wildlife conservation in Sweden. What does it mean that we have made a decision to have 170 - 270 wolves for favorable conservation status? As Sten Bergheden noted, we have perhaps 430 wolves in Sweden, and the authorities decide on a licence hunt of 22. It's a pure provocation to the countryside. It is pure provocation for the dog owner who today got his dog killed in Gävle and who Gefle Dagblad writes about – a hunting companion who was eaten by two wolves. It's a provocation to preschool teacher Marie Envall in Ljusdal, and Ljusdals-Posten tells us something like this: It's not really the answer Marie Envall, who would like to see a reduced wolf tribe in the area, wants. It is precisely this decision that the Swedish Parliament has taken. As Christian Holm Barenfeld Holm said, the decision means that we will spread predators all over Sweden, except on Gotland and in reindeer grazing land. What do you think would have happened if the staff of a preschool in Nacka had said that you couldn't have the children out because of wolf? With great probability, it would have been a great national news story. What would have happened, Madam President, if a wolf had taken a dog at Södermalm this afternoon? With great probability, it would have been a big news story. When one or two wolves took a dog in Gävle today it becomes a note in Gefle Dagblad. But this is no record for those who live and work in Gävleborg. This is not a sign for those who move in forest and land. It is not a note for those who believe that the Government should ensure that the Riksdag's decisions are complied with. In fact, it is a hygiene factor that the Swedish Government ensures that our authorities comply with the intentions of the Riksdag's decisions. It's your duty. To write in an interpellation answer to the Swedish Parliament that you cannot make decisions is not reasonable.
i-3b439118eff079b6-456	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. We must have a predatory policy, but it cannot go beyond all other goals in rural areas. It cannot stand above a living countryside if we want more people to be able to live and work out there, have a sense of domesticity and be able to work with forestry and agriculture. We have a food strategy that says we should increase production. Of course we have many goals. It cannot then be said that predatory policy is so important that it must take out the rest of its activities. As with all the other wild animals we have in the country, we must regulate the wolf tribe. We do that with moose, deer, deer and others. We are handing over responsibility to the hunters, who are doing this extremely well. Of course, we must do exactly the same in the case of the wolf. This is what the rest of Europe does. It is often claimed that the wolf is an endangered animal. We have over 200,000 wolves in the world. We're full of wolves all over Europe. You hunt wolves in Europe. You even have free hunting in parts of Europe, and you know that you have to keep the wolf tribe at a reasonable level. It is only up here in Sweden that we have got the idea that we should be doing some experiment to create something that will not succeed if we do not bring the rural population with us. I've been out with people in the countryside who have lost their sheep, frightened to death and bitten sheep. Other ewes have thrown their fetuses and have not become pregnant the following year because of the wolf attack. These people are considering whether to continue breeding sheep in these areas at all. Of course they're thinking about doing something else, and that's what we don't want. We want these people to keep betting out there. We also wanted to set up a new wildlife agency to deal with the wolf issue, but neither has the government concerned about this issue.
i-3b439118eff079b6-460	Madam President, I would like That was not much of a response to some very clear questions, so I will repeat the questions to the Minister and hope that I can get answers to them. From what I hear, it seems that the government states that decisions taken by the Swedish parliament are not necessarily something that must be followed. I think that sounds serious. In addition, the Riksdag has decided on a milestone of 170 – 270 individuals in the country. In view of the assessment of the number of wolves in the country today, I would like to add a question. If, according to the Minister for the Environment, 300 individuals are needed for it to be a viable and sustainable management of the wolves, is the Minister prepared to significantly increase the number of individuals who may be shot off in future wolf hunts? It gets a little weird when you read this. As I and my colleagues have said, it is about the wolf being on a limited area in Sweden and that we want people to be able to live throughout the country and feel respect for our laws. My specific question is: Does the Minister think that decisions taken by Sweden's highest political body, the Swedish Parliament, should be followed? Let me follow this up with a question about the decision that the Alliance Government delivered before the last elections and which we still stand by in opposition: that we want a game agency. What does the Minister say about that?
i-3b439118eff079b6-466	Madam President, I would like I thank Karolina Skog for the answer, and I thank the interpellant and the whole band of Moderates who have been up and saying that they are protecting Swedish countryside. That sounds good, but the countryside got to know what eight years of bourgeois government meant. We learned that there was no future in it. With regard to the management of the large predators, I have learned that one must be humble. You can have a strong personal will for both things, but we must be humble. Above all, we must be humbled before our wild fauna. We must also be humble to the affected traders, sheep-owners, horse-owners and so on. Since the Riksdag has decided that we should have sustainable predator management, traders have the right to support and measures to prevent damage. It is important, but we do not see that in the moderate budget motion. It's crossed over; there's a red pen over it all. This can be carried with you. The farmers may have with them working to comply with the Government's food strategy. You need to be humble in front of the people who lose a hunting companion and that the hunt changes. We definitely should be; it's very important. I stood in this speaker's chair and debated with a central government council which had no support from the moderate-led government. It took quite a long time to develop the predator bill, which when it came had a focus on numbers rather than measures.
i-3b439118eff079b6-472	In the fantastic report from SVA there is a map where each point is a killed predator. On license hunting there were zero wolves in 2014. There were certainly a number on § 28 and protection hunting. The year efter, 2015, almost 44 were handled on licence hunting, i.e. when this government had taken over. The Moderates would probably not have thought that it would be possible to implement it with an environmentalist environmental minister, but see how it worked. In the following years, the number is roughly the same. You have to have that with you, too. There are quite a few on protective hunting, including in the reindeer grazing area, which is quite right. Some were also killed by traffic. This must also be included in the overall assessment of predator pressure. So, what's the basis? Here the hunters do a good job of collecting, for example, wolf shit and bear shit to increase the base of genetics. It is important that we bring all parts of the work with us so that we get a good basis. The government has also developed a basis so that we can start using bait cameras, which is currently prohibited. Image from the countryside shows that you have predators, but you cannot use them. The government is taking measures that matter.
i-3b439118eff079b6-477	Madam President, I would like Isak From makes clear in a good way the complexity of the issues of predators. To reduce it to a question of numbers and conclude that politicians are best placed to answer the questions of numbers and other things is to simplify the issues in a way that they do not deserve at all and that those who engage in predatory issues from different viewpoints absolutely do not deserve. As Isak From points out, of course, the owners of domestic animals who have problems with wolf should have the support of society with fences and so on, and we should take the issues seriously. We will also take the whole intention of the Riksdag's decision that we should have a viable wolf tribe seriously. I miss that seriousness on the part of the Moderates in today's debate. To reduce the issue of a viable wolf strain to a question of only number is not to take the decisions taken by the Riksdag seriously. Several of the debaters have also wrongly referred to the parliamentary decision, although it is stated in the interpellation that the Riksdag has decided that the reference value for favourable conservation status should be 170 – 270 individuals. It's not a definition, it's not a goal, it's not a ceiling– it's a benchmark. This benchmark was based on a number of factual conclusions. The same authority has then revised and adjusted the reference value on the basis of a scientific review and concluded that, with regard to genetics, 300 are needed, and genetics is one of the aspects to be taken into account. There is also a misinterpretation when it is suggested that the Riksdag has decided that there should be an even spread throughout the country. There should be wolf in the whole country, but it does not say in the Riksdag's decision that it is evenly distributed. The wolf is a wild animal that moves freely on our land. No politics and no authorities can control it – nor does it say in any decision by either parliament or government that we should try to govern it. The Swedish Parliament has decided on special considerations in reindeer grazing, in the archipelago and in areas with a lot of domestication. This is taken into account by means of aid and the possibility of both protection and licence hunting. Predators play an essential role in the organic system in Sweden and the world. We need the predators for our ecosystem to be connected. You can't remove them. If we removed those at the top of the food chain, there would be major consequences. One cannot have serious work on biodiversity without also having a serious and scientifically based policy on predators. That is what this government stands for, and we have done so by bringing down decisions on hunting at regional level and creating order and order.
i-3b439118eff079b6-485	Madam President, I would like I understand that the Social Democrats are reporting for the debate. They are well aware of how trust in the Green Party is in the Swedish countryside. They are well aware that subsidies for electric bicycles are not the most important issue in Hälsingland, but that there is a fuel price that can be paid. I therefore have full respect for the fact that the Social Democrats hastened to register. Madam President, I would like This debate has shown that the representative of the Green Party, the Government, does not answer the questions relating to respect for Parliament's decisions. You can tell us that we have made a number of decisions. The decision made in the Riksdag can be rallied, but then you can actually come back to the Swedish Parliament and present another bill. Then you have to come back to this Parliament and seek support for another policy. If the Riksdag has made a decision, it is the duty of the Government and our authorities to comply with that decision. There are considerably more wolves in Sweden on a very limited surface. We do not need to have reading aloud, but it is clear from the decision adopted in Parliament that the concentration of the wolf tribe should be reduced where it is most frequent. The government has received questions from all my colleagues here. What does the Government do to ensure that Parliament's decisions are complied with? We can note that the Riksdag's decision is being rallied, but we do not get an answer to the question of how the Government should ensure that the Riksdag's decisions are complied with by means of regulatory letters or other measures. I find this worrying, and I am sure we will have reason to come back to this issue in later debates.
i-3b439118eff079b6-489	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman says we need a new bill. I'm terrified of a new bill. Should we tear up everything we've been working on? With regard to the final decision that was so important to this, with the foundation of the work done by the government, we were able to get a legally sustainable administration and a decision by the Supreme Administrative Court that says that the decision taken by the Swedish parliament and government, which has given the authorities the right to delegate in order to regionalise the hunt, is sustainable and can be implemented. Should we tear up the decision and start over? I fear that the Moderates will rule again, if one is to start implementing both one and the other without any thought of the consequences and consequences. Let's start over with a legal circus one more time. Is that what we want? In fact, we must be careful and have some respect for the fact that what is being done is actually producing results. Then we must also implement measures. We will be able to follow the development and gather more data to assess the size. We can now say that the wolf tribe was much larger than we could say in 2013, for example, because people out there – the hunters' association, nature-interested and so on – gather evidence for how large a wolf's trunk, how large a bear's trunk, how many wolverines, how many lynx we have and so on. It is the whole thing you have to have, and you have to have respect for that. Don't come here and pull a single populist string and think it'll work out in the future! This government stands for the whole. It works, and the government has shown it.
i-3b439118eff079b6-494	Madam President, I would like Every time I have a debate with Lars Beckman it becomes more and more trumpy. Citing the interpellation that Lars Beckman has made and pointing out that this is what the Riksdag has decided and nothing else is called ralliing. I quoted and read before from the Parliament's decision and the interpellation, which says that the Riksdag has decided on a reference value for conservation status, and I explained the work that has followed. There are two differences between the policy pursued by the government – the good order we have created in predatory policy – and the proposal advocated by Lars Beckman. The government has regionalised the decisions on game management, but Lars Beckman wants to take them to Stockholm. Lars Beckman thinks that he and the members of the Riksdag are better placed to make detailed decisions about the game administration than representatives from the Hunter Association and experts in Gävleborg and other counties. The government doesn't think so. We think the regions out there are better suited. Why am I not answering? Because I have handed over trust and responsibility to a regional game management system that makes that kind of decision. I am not going over that order, because I know no better than these regional experts. But Lars Beckman thinks he does, and that's a big difference. The second is that we have systematic work and a close link between our expert authorities and science and allow criticism from scientific sources or new information to influence the work of the expert authorities. If you get new information, you can change your mind and adapt your decisions accordingly. This is a scientific approach.
i-3b439118eff079b6-499	Madam President, I would like Jan Ericson has asked me how I intend to clarify the regulations so that the municipalities can be sure to make legal decisions regarding the extra state allowance for unaccompanied young people. Jan Ericson describes and sees two serious problems with the design of the grant. One is that the allowance is allocated to the municipality of residence without regard to the location of the youth. The second is that municipalities lack guidelines on how to handle the temporary grant. Asylum-seeking adults are a government responsibility. This means that the Migration Agency offers those who are 18 years old and need help with housing places in a camp. Asylum seekers who turn 18 also have the opportunity to live in other ways. Those who can arrange the accommodation themselves have the opportunity to do so. In order to enable municipalities to allow young people in this situation to remain in the municipality during the asylum process, the Government and the Left Party have proposed a temporary grant of SEK 390 million in the autumn 2017 amending budget and SEK 195 million in the 2018 budget proposal.
i-3b439118eff079b6-502	The distribution of funds to the municipality of residence is due to the fact that the purpose of the grant is to enable young people to remain in the municipality in which they reside. The temporary allowance does not require that the young person is placed in accordance with the Social Services Act, and the municipality of residence may have more opportunity to find solutions than placement. However, exactly how the funds are to be used is up to the municipalities to decide because the needs and conditions may differ between different municipalities.
i-3b439118eff079b6-504	Madam President, I would like Our new party leader Ulf Kristersson has coined a new welcome concept in the political debate, namely that we need to have a more adult conversation in politics where we try to listen to each other and debate important issues with the intention of actually doing things. An opportunity for such adult conversations should be Parliament's interpellation debates, but this presupposes that the Minister takes the questions of interpellants seriously. My interpellation is about the government's extra contribution to the municipalities to enable asylum seekers who turn 18 or get the age written up to 18 years during the asylum process to stay in the municipality during the asylum period. It is an idea that is fundamentally sympathetic and can benefit the integration of those who are granted a residence permit. In my interpellation, I address two concrete problems with the additional government contribution to the municipalities. None of the questions are answered. The Minister does not even admit that the problems exist, despite the fact that Sweden's Municipalities and Landsting have actually pointed out the same thing. The Minister's answer lacks substance, and I find it a little disrespectful to give such an answer in an important interpellation debate. Why should we stand here and debate if the Minister does not take the debate seriously? I now give the Minister another chance to answer my two questions. The first question concerns what Swedish Municipalities and County Councils point out, namely that the distribution of this money is based on which municipality is the formal municipality of residence, without taking into account which municipality is responsible for social services and hence the costs. A large number of municipalities have unaccompanied young people located outside their own municipality, which means that one municipality can be charged with the cost while another municipality receives the grant. Here I think the government should listen to SKL, who has instead asked for the money to be distributed according to which municipality really has the cost. The second issue is that municipalities lack guidelines on how to handle this additional state contribution. In several municipalities, including my municipality of residence, Mark, both municipal lawyers and social welfare managers have questioned whether it is possible to use the grant for the stated purpose without prejudice to the municipal law's demands for equal treatment of municipal residents. A person seeking asylum at the age of 18 is referred to an asylum accommodation and receives daily allowance according to the rules for adults. For a person under the age of 18, completely different rules apply for accommodation, daily allowance and more. If you are going to give young people aged 18 or over the same conditions and benefits as they had before, this means that some 18-year-olds in a municipality receive completely different benefits and rights than other young people of the same age. Taking such collective decisions without individual redress is likely to violate several laws. That the government has not given any guidelines to the municipalities on how to act is, in fact, irresponsible, and we are talking about quite a lot of money. Now the municipalities act differently, and no one knows if you make legal decisions.
i-3b439118eff079b6-513	Madam President, I would like I would like to make it clear from the outset in our debate that I naturally take the interpellation very seriously. The fact that we are maintaining Swedish democracy together this evening is an expression of this – question and answer. However, if I am going to develop this further, I would like to say that the background is that asylum seekers over 18 years of age are normally offered a place at the Finnish Immigration Service's accommodation centres instead of remaining in a municipality under the Social Services Act. As a result, young people may need to move. This has also been the case in the past, but then the municipality received a continued compensation for the extended placements when asylum seekers turned 18. For that very reason, many municipalities actually did. The reason why the government and the Left Party have chosen to give municipalities an extra contribution for this group of young people is precisely to enable them to remain in the municipality where they now reside. It can also be said that this situation with normal processing times will arise only in exceptional cases. That is why this proposal is about this being a temporary solution. We have chosen it instead of changing and backing back in the regulatory framework of the previous compensation system. There is perhaps also reason to say that an alternative solution would be to amend the replacement regulation. It had taken much longer, and it had not made possible, for example, any money for this year. It is precisely the intention to cope with the transition from the rule change made this summer to the period of the current and next year in order, for example, to enable young people to stay and complete their education in the municipality in which they reside. The municipalities have different conditions, and this grant allows for different solutions. When looking at the differences between the municipality of residence and the municipality of instruction, it is noted that 72 per cent of the cases involve the same target group. The municipality of residence and the municipality of instruction meet there. The government therefore believes that this is a bit of the art of the potential, I would like to put it this way, so that we can respond quickly to the municipalities that have called for an opportunity to make it easier for the young people to remain in the municipality where they have started in a school and where they live.
i-3b439118eff079b6-519	Madam President, I would like In fact, I do not think that the Government is taking this seriously. The answer is more a repetition of my questions and a survey of the situation. But that is not an answer to how to deal with this situation in a legal way, and that was the important part of my question. The government has left this problem with the application of law in the lap of the municipalities, which have great difficulty in dealing with this. It leads to quite large political conflicts, and it leads to the risk of appeals and other things, when they actually have a good intention of trying to do something good. I think that this is a major shortcoming from the government, which means that no guidelines can be put forward for the municipalities on how to deal with this. SKL also says that a large number of these unaccompanied residents live in one municipality, but where another municipality has social services responsibility. In fact, there is a significant number around the country. Not least, many of the large cities send many unaccompanied residents to housing in other municipalities around them. It is a problem that this money does not follow young people and those who have the costs for young people, but ends up in another municipality. This is pointed out by the SKL, and it is considered unfair. In fact, I think the Minister should listen to that. When you add as much money as SEK 600 million, which you want to do in 2017 and 2018, and have a stated purpose with this, then you should also make sure if and with guidelines that this can actually be handled properly so that you get the right effect from this money. It should not be the case that the municipalities risk breaking the law just to carry out what the government wants them to do. I think that this also shows that it is not possible to solve all the problems in society by simply collecting more of taxpayers' money. Sometimes it is also necessary to provide guidance on how to use this money. Does the Minister really think it reasonable that grants for young people can be paid to one municipality while another municipality has the costs for these young people? Is that really reasonable?
i-3b439118eff079b6-525	Madam President, I would like If the interpellier is concerned that I do not seem to take the matter seriously, I would like to address a call back to him: please take my answer seriously too! It is a very serious and sincere answer about how the government has reasoned. Jan Ericson's argumentation is a very clear statement that the municipalities would not get a single crown for this year. That would not be possible according to the model that Jan Ericson represents in the interpellation debate. In some I am inclined to agree with Jan Ericson. It is, of course, important that all municipalities assume their full responsibilities. It is a much bigger issue, and it is very large in the whole area of migration policy. I would like to come back to this in many other contexts. With regard to the objections that can be raised against this distribution system, we have different models for allocating and allocating state resources to the municipalities. Either it is general state aid, or it is targeted state aid. This is one of the grants that goes out without any specific instruction as to how municipalities should fulfil the task by using the money. It's not the first time, and it's probably not the only time. In fact, I am meeting the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils tomorrow and will of course also be talking about this particular issue. On the other hand, I know from my background that there is not usually much sound and jubilation about targeted state grants from the municipalities. This provides an opportunity for municipalities to use the money based on the different conditions they have in different municipalities.
i-3b439118eff079b6-530	Madam President, I would like If the government has an intention of shoveling as much money as SEK 600 million, as it says it wants to do even if not everything is decided yet, I still think it should also have an idea of how this should be handled legally so that it actually works. Otherwise, the problem is conveniently placed in the municipalities and SKL, which do not have a direct solution, and so we hope that no one will appeal. Let's hope no one thinks it's an illegal decision. You can also accept that in a municipality you can have 18-year-olds who live under completely different conditions because the government treats different 18-year-olds differently. That is very strange; if we want legal certainty and if we want to comply with the municipal law's rules on equal treatment, the demands of social services and so on, it is strange that you can treat two 18-year-olds in the same municipality in completely different ways. I am pleased that the Minister is meeting with SKL tomorrow. I hope that this issue can come up then and that there will be a discussion on this. It may be that the minister can advise SKL on how to handle this legally, so that SKL can give the municipalities any advice on the matter. I have not asked for any targeted state subsidies – on the moderate side, we think it is absolutely excellent if we do not have too much targeted state subsidies. But this is not about that; it is about providing guidelines on how to deal legally with a complex issue. Then it is up to each municipality if you want to do this, but that there are no guidelines at all when it is sent out money in this way, I actually think is a great shortcoming.
i-3b439118eff079b6-534	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my concluding speech by thanking Jan Ericson for the interpellation. I think we have shown a serious consideration of both the question and the answer in the interpellation debate. The money and the allocation do not necessarily mean that the municipalities should provide the same support as the young person received before the 18th anniversary, but that this means that there will be a comparison with other adult asylum seekers without there being a conflict. It is up to each municipality to decide how this temporary grant should be used. As I have also tried to put forward in the debate, the aim of the government is to enable the municipalities to allow the young person to remain in the municipality where studies have been started and housing, for example. Nevertheless, I would like to conclude by setting a good example. There are municipalities that have already planned to provide grants to voluntary organisations that actively seek to recruit host families where young people can both receive support and maintain housing. I am convinced that we will see a great many different examples in the municipalities where it is assessed that the support is justified in order for the young person to have the opportunity to remain. With those words, Madam President, I would like to thank you for the interpellation debate.
i-3b439118eff079b6-538	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin by welcoming Tobias Billström into his new role as group leader. I also welcome the fact that the former Minister for Migration has chosen to intervene the current Minister for Migration. Tobias Billström has asked me whether I intend to ensure long-term and predictability by making the current temporary legislation permanent. The Government supports the objectives of migration policy set by the Riksdag. It states, not least, that it should be sustainable in the long term and that we should safeguard the right to asylum. These are two perspectives that the government is working very actively for both in Sweden and in the EU. The Swedish legal framework was temporarily adapted after autumn 2015 to the minimum level of EU law and international conventions in order to significantly reduce the number of asylum seekers to Sweden. At the same time, the capacity of reception and establishment would be improved. The measures, together with political changes in other countries and within the EU, have significantly reduced the number of people applying for asylum in Sweden both in 2016 and so far in 2017, compared to 2015. The situation of reception is better and under control, although there are still challenges. The government is also working very actively to establish an EU asylum system in which all Member States share jointly and severally the responsibility of receiving people in need of protection. The system must be effective, legally secure, sustainable, humane and allow high-quality decisions to safeguard the right to asylum. The outcome of the negotiations currently under way in the EU on the reform of the Common Asylum System will have an impact on our legislation. How and to what extent is difficult to say at present, as it is unclear when the proposals will be adopted and come into force. The Temporary Act is valid until 19 July 2019. The government's assessment is that the restrictions on the possibility of obtaining a residence permit in Sweden are needed for a maximum of three years. Once the law has been in force for two years, the government will assess the need for it to apply also during the last year of its validity. The government has shown in concrete action that we stand to try to find broad and long-term solutions to major challenges. This applies in migration policy but also in other areas. It is gratifying if the Moderates and other parties in the Swedish Parliament share that ambition.
i-3b439118eff079b6-545	Madam President, I would like First of all, I would like to thank the Government for its answer and for her words. This is the first time we have met in this House, but it is certainly not the last. It is important to remember that migration policy should be long-term in order to be successful. It has not exactly been this government's parade, as the Government's head Stefan Löfven clearly showed in the autumn of 2015 that he was not the master of the situation. The cross caste between statements such as this, My Europe does not build walls, and the opposite some month later did not give rise to confidence or confidence in the government's migration policy. If you can easily change the course 180 degrees, from one direction to the completely opposite, you will have to accept that this House – whose confidence the government depends on for its existence – is asking questions about the sustainability of the policies pursued. That is why we are concerned to see where the Social Democrats are going on the issue of permanent residence permits. With the facts in hand, we can see that autumn 2015 was a direct result of Stefan Lövven's and the Social Democrats' choices in 2014. The Government Declaration considered that the principles of the Green Party in the area of asylum policy should be governed completely unnecessarily. The Social Democrats chose this themselves, without coercion from anyone else. The result was that nothing was done during a whole year in terms of policy development and preparation that could have mitigated the 2015 huge influx to Sweden. Yet Stefan Löfven stood here in the Chamber during the party leader debate on 11 October and claimed that the refugee policy that was untenable and founded under the bourgeois government was re-established. The claim is completely wrong in substance – the Social Democratic Government did nothing for a whole year, that is, the whole year that passed between the accession of 2014 and autumn 2015. When politics was changed, it was done on the initiative of the Moderates and all parties in parliament minus the Left Party and the Swedish Democrats. So there was no initiative. The government and the Minister for Migration are now unable to answer the question of what to do when the temporary law on restrictions on residence permits expires. Instead, the Minister for Migration refers to the evaluation in July 2018. However, a long-term sustainable migration policy means, among other things, temporary residence permits and strong supply requirements for family migration. Why does the Minister of Migration not want to strive for a sustainable solution to refugee policy? That's my question.
i-3b439118eff079b6-553	Madam President, I would like I would like to start by saying that if Tobias Billström has questions for Stefan Löfven – he had several – he will then ask the Prime Minister such an interpellation. I feel very confident with the decisions taken by the government and with the position of the Prime Minister and with the speeches he has made on migration policy. Before the debate, I have done some reading. I have read an article in Aftonbladet. Former Minister of Migration Tobias Billström is highly outspoken about the time when he himself held that responsibility during Fredrik Reinfeldt's prime minister's term. Then there was a conflict between our hearts and Billström's statement. Already in 2012, it was possible to see that there were things in the EU's neighbourhood that were not good. It would have been good if the refugee and migration policy had been changed, and Tobias Billström wishes it had happened earlier. I could possibly interpel Billström about why he didn't do anything, if he foresaw all this. But I'm gonna stick to the situation we're in today. During these years, the government has worked very hard to bring order to the asylum process. This is of course a huge challenge after 2015 when 163 000 asylum seekers came to Sweden. The right to seek asylum is fundamental, and it is very much protected by the government. I would like to take this opportunity to ask Tobias Billström a question. The interpellation is about the Moderates and Tobias Billström wanting us to permanentize the temporary law. Since I have said that I think it is important to have broad agreements, I wonder whether Tobias Billström can also answer for the other bourgeois parties. Is it the view of the bourgeois alliance parties or is it merely a moderate view that one wants to perpetrate the temporary law? I think that the government has in every way taken and is taking a number of strong measures to ensure that we protect the right to asylum in every way. Once again, I would like us to find as broad a consensus as possible. But for us to arrive here, it also requires that we be prepared to listen to each other both between the bourgeois parties and between the government and the bourgeois parties.
i-3b439118eff079b6-558	Madam President, I would like I am pleased that the Government has gone back, looked at the archives and found out what I thought and thought about these issues. But the government may not have really come to the natural conclusion. It is true that in 2012 – 2013 information was available that showed that very large groups of people were being built up in Turkey who certainly wanted to get to Europe. It is also well known that I disagreed with what my then boss did and expressed it publicly. But Minister Heléne Fritzon may recall what her current boss thought of that view and what Stefan Löfven called what I expressed in the articles. He called it an inhuman policy. Does Heléne Fritzon remember that? Does Heléne Fritzon remember that the Social Democrats condemned exactly the same policy that was then pursued in government? I would be careful to draw those conclusions. As far as the questions to me are concerned, I will answer them, but I would like to remind the Government that it is not really her job to ask me questions. She's here to be questioned about her and government policy. My view and that of the Moderates is that we must have a completely different focus on European asylum policy than we have today. In the years that I worked as a Minister for Migration, much of the work in the Council and in the Commission focused on harmonisation, on reducing the distance on issues of reception, asylum examination and return between EU Member States. If we are to cope with the future and deal with the challenges, we need to establish a quota-refugee system. Negotiations are under way on an EU common asylum system, but when it can enter into force it is unclear. Sweden needs a migration policy that can work and that is sustainable regardless of when a new asylum system can enter into force. In order to ensure sustainable reception, to maintain trust and legitimacy in the asylum system, the asylum process needs to be orderly. We need clear regulations that create conditions and predictability. One way to create such a long-term perspective and predictability is to make measures such as temporary residence permits and increased supply requirements for family migration permanent and also apply after the expiry of the temporary law currently in force. I have still not received an answer to my original question on whether the Government believes that it should ensure the long-term and predictability by making the current temporary legislation permanent. That is the central issue for tonight's debate, and it is Heléne Fritzon who is the minister of state and the minister of migration now, not me.
i-3b439118eff079b6-566	Madam President, I would like It is clear that in the interpellation debate I must be curious about the question put by Tobias Billström as moderate deputy, i.e. whether there are more bourgeois parties who think that the temporary law should be permanent after 2019. That is what the debate is about. I also note that there is a discussion going on that you also want to remove the possibility of asylum at the Swedish border. From what I understand, there is a need for further dialogue between your parties. I have very clearly answered the question, namely that the temporary law applies until July 2019. The Government intends to return with a reconciliation in 2018. The focus that I have as a minister and the government in general is, of course, that the current EU negotiations are essential for the order and attitude that Sweden will have in the future. We are about to reform the Common European Asylum System. In this respect, we welcome greater harmonisation. We underline the importance of a more balanced and solidarity-based distribution among the EU Member States. The Swedish position is fundamentally agreed during the negotiations. It is a question of broadening responsibility and cooperation in the area of migration between the Member States of Europe. We also want to safeguard the right of asylum and take responsibility for the quota refugee system. We must have both of these elements in order for us to be able to continue to take on the responsibility that Sweden has taken and will take. In fact, we have taken the greatest responsibility for the global refugee crisis in Europe per capita. Billström also points to this in his interpellation. We from the government want Sweden to continue to take its share of responsibility for people on the run. But it requires a functioning asylum system within the EU. Sweden cannot, of course, deviate significantly from the levels and rules agreed jointly in the negotiations at European level. That is the focus of the government. My hope – as I have also said in many contexts – is that in 2018 we will arrive in these negotiations. Now there have been a lot of choices in Europe, and it also changes the tendency and attitude to take joint and several responsibility. On the other hand, however, there is active and important work in the Commission, in the European Parliament, in the Council of Ministers and in more contexts in order to achieve more solidarity. This is the crucial issue that will have a major impact on the regulatory framework that Sweden will take a position on in the future.
i-3b439118eff079b6-574	Madam President, I would like There seem to be a great many negotiations at the moment. Just a few hours ago, an article was published on Ekot's website. It states that the Social Democrats are under pressure in relation to unaccompanied asylum seekers' children. I can only call on the Minister of Migration not to give way to this point but to stand by the fundamental principles that should characterise Swedish migration policy, that is, an individual asylum examination. Also, you must not deviate simply because people scream loudly. We must have a coherent migration policy in this country. This was shown very clearly in the autumn of 2015. Migration policy should be predictable and long-term, taking into account everything from asylum screening, reception and return to work within the EU on a common asylum system. Unfortunately, the current government is rather making a mess of this point through what media reporting shows from the ongoing discussions on migration policy between the two government-supporting parties. I noted the interest of the Minister for Migration in the bourgeois alliance. But she should be more interested in her own government base in this case. It is clear that there is a rift in the issue between the government parties. For me and the Moderates, it is important that the principle of individual asylum examination in which authorities examine protection grounds in each individual case is central to Swedish refugee reception. I would advise the Minister for Migration not to pursue a policy that deviates from this principle. It is of great importance that Swedish migration policy is stable and clear. It means a lot to our country. It would therefore be desirable for the Government to respond to my question as to whether it intends to make the current temporary legislation on temporary residence permits and to tighten supply requirements in the event of family immigration permanent or not.
i-3b439118eff079b6-579	Madam President, I would like I would like to begin my last speech by thanking Tobias Billström for the question of interpellation. I have answered his question twice, so I will not repeat it a third time. I also think that I have been clear about what applies until 2019. In all ways, I welcome a coherent migration policy with as broad a foundation in the Swedish Parliament as is possible. For this reason, as Mr Billström said, I look forward to forthcoming debates, talks and discussions that will relate to the right of asylum and the quota refugee system. I also hope that it will be about how we conduct long-term development cooperation to counter the causes of people going on the run. We are talking about this far too little. Through our collaboration with the UN, UNHCR and IOM, we make a difference when we work with knowledge and expertise for a more peaceful world. I look forward to these elements being discussed in joint talks between the parties in the future.
i-3b439118eff079b6-582	Madam President, I would like Jessica Rosencrantz has asked me how I plan to solve the railway's problems of delays and lack of maintenance. The Swedish railway facility is to a large extent worn out as a result of the fact that over many years too little resources have been invested in maintenance, while traffic has increased significantly. The consequences of the lack of maintenance have been evident with recurrent traffic disruptions and delay problems. The Government considers that a well-functioning railway is important in order to achieve several of the Government's objectives of high employment, basic accessibility, an increased share of qualified industrial production and reduced climate and environmental impact. The Government has therefore implemented an increase in the annual allocation for railway maintenance of SEK 1.34 billion per year during the period 2016– 2018. In autumn 2016, the Government submitted an infrastructure proposal to the Riksdag with proposals for a historically large investment in Sweden's infrastructure. In the bill, the Government proposed that the financial framework for the next planning period 2018 – 2029 should increase by more than SEK 100 billion, to a total of SEK 622.5 billion. The Riksdag decided in accordance with the Government's direction. This means that we are now making a strong commitment to maintenance, but also that new investments will be possible. The allocation for railway maintenance is increased by 47 percent compared to the current infrastructure plan that Jessica Rosencrantz's own party was involved in deciding on. It is also important that railway maintenance is planned and implemented effectively. The Government has therefore commissioned Trafikverket during January 2017 to implement organisational changes in order to carry out manual maintenance inspections and delivery follow-ups of the contractors' work. Trafikverket has also developed a four-year maintenance plan for the period 2017–2020, in which Trafikverket describes the strategic direction and priorities that govern maintenance operations. The plan describes the financial conditions and the measures that the Finnish Transport Administration plans to take. On 19 October 2017, the Government submitted a proposal to the Legislative Council for a new Railway Traffic Act. Under the proposed new law, railway undertakings will be able to have delays reimbursed by infrastructure managers if the delay is due to problems with the railway infrastructure. This means that operators responsible for the infrastructure will also bear the final cost of the disruptions that occur. The new Act is proposed to enter into force on 1 July 2018. The Finnish Transport Agency is now carrying out intensive work on railway maintenance measures. However, taking these measures will have the effect of affecting existing traffic. It is not possible to both drive trains and maintain the tracks at the same time. The Finnish Transport Agency has a dialogue with interested parties to ensure that the disruptions are as limited as possible and that information reaches both passengers and freight transporters. There is a great need for maintenance measures, and it will take time before the measures taken gradually can contribute to a higher punctuality and greater robustness of the railways. All in all, I note that the government has taken a number of measures to strengthen the railways.
i-3b439118eff079b6-590	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. Prior to the 2014 elections, the Social Democrats made a clear promise to the voters: with an S-led government the trains would go on time. This is why we are prioritising fully funded investments in order for the trains to start working right now. – – – – The trains simply have to go on time now, not in a few decades. This is how Minister Ardalan Shekarabi wrote in Aftonbladet on 26 August 2014. The question is what happened with that election promise. The statistics show that the situation on the railways has become worse with the Social Democrats in the government. In four years the number of late hours in train traffic due to signal failure has increased by 37 per cent. More than 15% of all trains arrive too late to their final destination, and the number of cancellations we see now has increased in recent years. More than 43 000 inspection notes are waiting to be corrected. More than 6 000 of the comments were already notified last year and some even earlier, but they remain without action. Today we see how the Swedish Transport Administration is shutting down the City Line until further notice, which affects hundreds of thousands of commuters. In Aftonbladet 2014, Ardalan Shekarabi called on all those affected by train delays to demand responsibility from the Minister in charge. That is why I am here today, Madam President – to demand responsibility. The red-green government has now had three years. From the answer I receive, the Government seems quite satisfied with the efforts being made, despite the fact that the delays in trains are worse than for a very long time and that thousands of remarks remain without action. The Alliance government doubled the allocation for railway maintenance compared to the S-government Persson before. Today, the Moderates match every penny the government spends on railway maintenance. We both know there's no way to blame it here. It is a good thing that both this government and the alliance government have previously invested more in increased railway funding. But where does the money go? Apparently, they don't go out in the tracks. There seems to be a bigger problem. One cannot help but wonder whether it is a lack of government control, both by the Finnish Transport Agency and by the railway as a system. The Alliance government made the greatest investigation into the organization and governance of the railways in modern times. That investigation on thousands of pages has been hidden by the Government in a desk drawer at the Ministry, without referring it and producing solid legislative proposals, as is usually done with large and important investigations. That is remarkable, Madam President. It's unprecedented, I'd say. Travellers are freezing on platforms. Companies and industries do not get their goods delivered. People and companies do not trust Swedish railways. Maintenance won't get into the tracks. I have respect for the fact that rail is a complex system that requires complex solutions, but it must also be taken seriously. We have had three years with a Social Democratic-led government and more hours of delay. The number of cancellations is increasing. Yet it refuses to refer the investigation, which is just about how we get better governance and organisation and more money out in the tracks. I had this question and the debate with the former Minister for Infrastructure too, but let me still put the question to the newly appointed Minister: does the Government intend to take the issues of governance and organisation seriously and, after all, refer the thousands of pages that are now in a desk drawer at the department? It could give us the answers on how to get better control of the railways and how to get the maintenance money in the tracks.
i-3b439118eff079b6-600	Madam President, I would like I thank Jessica Rosencrantz for her commitment, which I appreciate. It is good if there is a will from all political parties to invest in rail maintenance and investment. But this is a new position for the Moderates. It was not so long ago that we had a moderate Minister of Finance who said that 70% of maintenance resources would go by road and not by rail. We have overinvested in the rail system, said Anders Borg. At a time when traffic increased sharply, more companies wanted to send goods by rail and more people wanted to travel by train, the moderate-led government was in the process of reducing investments in order to give priority to other things. These are the under-investments in the rail system we are suffering from today. True, the Moderates have recently sobered up and understood that maintenance investments are needed. The aim is to match the substantial increase in maintenance that we are now proposing in the national plan with 47% increases in rail maintenance. But let us remember that Jessica Rosencrantz stopped an additional maintenance effort of SEK 1.24 billion as late as 2015 by voting down the budget we had. This delayed important investments in better quality. As more people travel by train and more companies send goods by train, the rail system is torn incredibly much more. There is also a need for more maintenance, and then the maintenance efforts we do need to be better controlled and better coordinated. That is one of the reasons why, as I mention in the interpellation response, we have now steered up the maintenance efforts of the Swedish Transport Administration much more clearly. We continue that dialogue on how to steer and improve the implementation of maintenance, so that we get more bang for the money. Then it is important that you have the right facts. Jessica Rosencrantz claimed that the signal errors would have increased by 37 percent. It's not right. This is not true if you follow the industry's agreement on how to measure punctuality. This agreement means that there should be a difference of plus five minutes and that train services should not be included. Service trains are – for any listeners who do not know – empty trains that need to be transported to get to and from a station or depot. Since they are not included in the statistics, the outcome is also slightly different. Let me give you a few examples. In 2012, we had 7,368 late hours. This year we're accumulated down to 4,224. Last year it was 7,200. It is moving slowly but surely in the right direction, but it is swaying, and it varies depending on what interference we see. Disturbance is sometimes due to lack of maintenance, and there is a lot left to do. But it may also be an obsolete fleet. I am pleased to see that both regional and national players are now entering and renewing their fleet. We see that we have a government that invests in infrastructure and rail with 75% rail investment in the national plan. It is clear that this is a clear signal to the players, much more clearly than during the time when the Moderates ruled the country and we had a Minister of Finance who said that 70% of the investment would go to road and not to rail. Remember, an investment in road is four five times more important than an investment in rail, he said. There is therefore no doubt a certain political responsibility for Jessica Rosencrantz and for the moderates who for many years made sure to underinvest in the rail system. Now there are other points of voice, which I welcome, because now we need to make major investments in rail maintenance. We need to be able to make large reinvestments and new investments. But when we hold such a debate, it should be based on the correct facts, not fictional.
i-3b439118eff079b6-608	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for an interesting answer. I can backfire the question and say that one may be excused when one is relatively new-minded as a minister of state, but let us still keep the facts straight – even the Minister knows that the alliance government doubled the investment in railway maintenance. You can't argue about that. Then you can always find fun quotes if you want. I myself am proud to belong to a party that thinks we need investment in both rail and road, although this is an opinion that does not seem to be shared by all parties in the present government. Trafikverket warns you don't have enough money on the way. But it's another discussion. As far as the railways are concerned, I am very proud that the alliance government doubled the money for railway maintenance. It is good that this government continues with these efforts. But it is still remarkable – and I can see that I did not get an answer to the question why it is – that the government does not want to address the question of how we run our rail network. Most experts agree that no matter how much money you could potentially spend on the railways, it does not work unless we also make sure that the money comes out in the tracks. But the government has thus had no interest in referring the thousands of pages that have now been worked out in a solid investigation for better management of the railways, the largest in modern times. On the other hand, one seems to have had time to play experimental workshop with maintenance money in direct conflict with this railway investigation. All parties agreed that the Finnish Transport Agency should take back responsibility for the inspection of the maintenance measures taken on the railway. But the government was not satisfied there. Like many other areas, the government decided to test the reintroduction of monopolies on parts of the rail network. That's what you've been doing. What happens if we prohibit all private contractors from contributing to the maintenance efforts on the railways? Yeah, it'll make things better. It has been the government's answer to how we will solve the problems on Swedish railways – a complete renationalisation. But that's what all the experts think gives less bang for the money, not more. Perhaps that is also why we have not referred this major inquiry into the organisation of the railways – it does not feel that it supports the government's ideologically blind policy in this respect. However, the Government has the opportunity to comment in future posts on whether it intends to refer these thousands of pages, which are now in a desk drawer at the Ministry and which can give us an indication of how to get better governance. Another interesting discussion in this context concerns the need for increased capacity in parallel with maintenance. In this respect, I note that the Government is happy to talk about what previous ministers have said about expanding the railways, but it does not itself properly explain the government's position in this regard. It would be interesting to hear in this debate whether the government has landed in a clearer position as regards new capacity on our railways. I note that the Green Party has been quite clear that it wants to borrow 230 billion to build high-speed trains with taxpayers as guarantors. So far, I have not quite understood whether this is the government's railway policy or not. If we now have a discussion on how to get more rail for the money, or how to put it, it would be nice if the Government could explain whether this is the government's answer – to build high-speed trains for 230 billion as a way of solving the capacity problems.
i-3b439118eff079b6-612	Madam President, I would like I'll tell you the truth, I'm a little surprised by Jessica Rosencrantz's final statement. When we were in the same room earlier today, I said that when the referral time is over, I would very much like to have a discussion with the Alliance on investment, not least in rail. But I think Jessica Rosencrantz knows very well that we cannot have a system in which the Government expresses precise views on proposals that are being referred. That would be just inappropriate. Then, of course, there are many parties – several within the Alliance as well, I note – who have had firm views on whether or not to borrow and what railway investments are to be made. I am among those who believe and think it would be good if we could find a broad agreement on strategically important investments in the rail system in the future. I think Jessica Rosencrantz thinks so too. In some contexts, the Moderates and the Social Democrats have managed to find joint agreements on important strategic positions for Sweden. During this term of office, the government has succeeded in doing so in defence policy and energy policy. In fact, there are 17 cross-block agreements. Of course, it may be that we may have different views on exactly what road routes or railway initiatives we are going to make. But in the strategic choices it would be good for Sweden, the operators, the industry and many others to know the long-term rules of the game in the future. It is not that there is any ambition on the part of the government to destroy, prevent or hinder the possibility for other actors to be able to participate in, for example, railway maintenance. On the other hand, when the maintenance market is increasing, and it will do that very substantially, there is good reason to think about how to steer efforts more clearly so that we get the best possible benefit from the resources we will use. It is gratifying that the Moderates now feel that clear railway maintenance efforts are good. I was a little surprised by the first part of the post. Should it be interpreted as meaning that the Moderates do not think it is okay that we now have a clear weighting for rail on investments in the national plan, but still see that it should be an equal level of road and rail? We have a road network system that has its flaws. I have raised this myself and would like us to draw attention to the proposals made by the Finnish Transport Administration. But there is no doubt that the major shortcomings in Sweden lie in our rail system after years of underinvestment. There will be no doubt about that. I do not think that I will precede the consultation bodies when I say that there is strong support for it to be a big list of clear investments in rail on both the maintenance and investment sides in the future. I'll be surprised if the Moderates don't see it. In that case, the Moderates must tell us which of the planned investments in rail that the Finnish Transport Administration proposes will not want to see in the future. I think most Swedes still think it's fun to ride trains. They want to get there on time. They are pleased to see that we are making new investments. They're impatient. One signal I get when I go country and country around the national plan is: Can't we make the investments a little earlier? They say: Finally, there is now 100 billion more for rail investment. With the heavy maintenance increases we will have on railway maintenance, they realize that it will be a bit resourceful for a period when you plan this well. There I am very clear to the Swedish Transport Administration and the maintenance operators that they should plan maintenance operations better so that passengers get better information and so that they do not disturb during important traffic weekends. Remember, all we do is compensate for years of underinvestment in a rail system. We had a finance minister who chose to spend money on tax cuts instead of investments. That's what we're paying for now.
i-3b439118eff079b6-622	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister. A sentence won't be more true because you repeat it again. Let me say that the Government is once again blindly fumbling when he says that the Alliance underinvested when the truth is that we doubled railway maintenance during our time. Then I thank you for the question of priorities in the national plan. Thanks to the fact that the Moderates spend as much money as the Red-Green Government does on the railway side, but overall more in the entire infrastructure area, we have the opportunity to, in addition to the Government framework, also prioritise to strengthen a road network that the Finnish Transport Agency says will drop in standard with the Government's funding. It's important to take it seriously. We match every penny the government spends on rail but can also add 6 billion more on the road side. Both are needed if Sweden is to stick together. Madam President, I would like It is a bit problematic to have a discussion when the person you are talking to does not really answer the question or choose to blame. In this case, the Government does both. Everything is the fault of the alliance government, and this government can do nothing because everything was so terrible back then. It is a bit tricky to have a discussion. Now the government has had three years to bring about some change. It was able to build on the double railway money of the alliance government. Yet, the answer is to blame or not to answer the question. I repeat the very specific question. I really should have brought the investigation here. The thousands of pages of the railway organization are both in my office and probably in the government office. Is there any intention to have a serious discussion on how we can improve the governance of our railways and not just discuss money? I think we both know that both are needed. Will the government refer Gunnar Alexandersson's investigation, or do they choose not to look at issues of governance and responsibility?
i-3b439118eff079b6-626	Madam President, I would like My point in the interpellation debate is to tell you that as you make your bed, you get to lie down. If you have been underinvesting for a long time, you have concerns about maintaining maintenance. If, at the beginning of this parliamentary term, an increase in funding for railway maintenance has been stopped, this will also be politically responsible. Jessica Rosencrantz stopped an investment of 1.24 billion by voting down the government budget in autumn 2014. It is clear that you have to take political responsibility for the decisions you make somewhere. Then it is to be welcomed that the Moderates are now seeing the benefits of rail investments. I don't blame myself. I see that the government is taking major initiatives with 100 billion more. With large new investments and also reinvestments and maintenance efforts, there is future optimism in the railway industry. This is why SJ announces that it wants to spend 6 billion on new purchased train cars. Other regional actors are investing heavily because they see that there is faith in the future and hope for us who see that the train has potential both on the freight side and on the passenger traffic side. I have a little difficulty understanding the commitment to whether or not the government will refer an investigation. I've been in politics for so long that I know there are a lot of government investigations going on. Not everyone has the privilege of being sent out for referrals, and everyone can be prepared in a slightly different way. There governments have different ways of dealing with solid bases. If you have a very large investigation, it can be a point to pick out parts of it, look at them and deepen the analysis work. The preparation of the investigation's proposals is ongoing as usual in the Government Office. We will be able to take part in a number of proposals in the future. The most important thing in the near future is to make sure that we now get up to speed on maintenance investments and manage maintenance better. That's where we put time and energy. That's what the travelers expect. I think there is broad consensus across the block borders that it is good that we are now trying to improve the punctuality of trains. It's moving in the right direction. It is important to have the right facts when reporting it.
