i-eaabd2dfab176493-0	Madam President, I would like Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin has, following a newspaper interview with Ambassador Håkan Juholt, asked me if I share Juholt's very serious view of the development of Swedish democracy and what measures I intend to take to ensure that the image of Sweden abroad is not adversely affected. Bohlin has also asked me if I still have confidence in the Swedish ambassador in Iceland, given my statement that he does not fully master his mission. The persons appointed as ambassadors are selected after a customary preparation process in the Government Office and have the necessary qualifications. The Government is constantly actively and extensively working to promote Sweden and to present a correct picture of Sweden abroad.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-3	Madam President, I would like I should like to begin by saying that the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not, in his reply at all, touch on my first question, namely whether she shares the assessment made by the ambassador in Iceland – that Sweden is developing into a dictatorship within a short period of time. I would like an answer to that question. Secondly, the Minister for Foreign Affairs himself has commented on the matter in, among others, Aftonbladet, where the Minister for Foreign Affairs has said that Håkan Juholt will soon learn what it means to be an ambassador. If the Minister for Foreign Affairs is correctly quoted in that part, as we must assume, this means that the Minister for Foreign Affairs believes that Håkan Juholt currently does not fully master his mission as ambassador. It leaves a certain question. It is unusual for someone to be appointed as the highest diplomatic representative in a mission without previous diplomatic experience. It's unusual. If this is to happen, it must be done in a way that ensures that the person fully masters, from day one, the mission of being an ambassador. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, however, obviously makes the assessment that Håkan Juholt has not yet fully learned what it means to be an ambassador. This raises the following questions: How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs see at Sweden's diplomatic missions abroad – is it some kind of labour market policy measure for people who have a party book? Is it not a posting that is important enough for us to have a person who from day one fully masters the mission? Does the Foreign Minister mean that the selection of people to appoint for the mission was so thin that one had to appoint a person who did not master the mission from the beginning but had to learn the job at work, so to speak?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-7	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for Foreign Affairs for his reply to Mr Bohlin. I share Mr Bohlin's view on the matter, and I have asked a written question on about the same subject. I have received a written reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs to that question, and this answer shows a few things. Among other things, the Minister for Foreign Affairs writes: a dialogue has also been held with Håkan Juholt in support of his continued work as Sweden's ambassador in Iceland. It would, of course, be interesting if the Minister for Foreign Affairs now took the opportunity to tell us more about the content of that discussion in this House. In his reply to me, the Minister for Foreign Affairs continues to state that the appointment of ambassadors is preceded by a customary process of preparation in the Government Office. The persons finally appointed by the Government have the experience and qualifications deemed appropriate. Prior to access, the person also undergoes further competence development based on the requirements of the role of head of authority and representative of Sweden. ..................................................... It is a safe wording, and it is reassuring assessment criteria the government has. But obviously something has gone very wrong in this case, because the Minister for Foreign Affairs does not seem satisfied with the statement that Håkan Juholt made. Then I have to ask, what went wrong? How do the government and the Foreign Minister intend to improve the procedures for appointing ambassadors? So there are two questions I would like answers to.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-11	Madam President, I would like I think this is more and more like a storm in a glass of water. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has correctly stated that Håkan Juholt himself has to develop his thinking. Much of this is based on loose quotes, and Håkan Juholt has developed it more. What he says is that it is not a dictatorship with rolling tanks but a technocracy – an expert government. He expresses concern for democracy, but this is a long way from the future. The government and the Minister for Foreign Affairs are doing a fantastic job to spread a positive Sweden image. We were told that it would be impossible to take up the seat in the UN Security Council, but we have succeeded in doing so under this government and under Minister for Foreign Affairs Margot Wallström. Now we are doing work all over the world to both improve internationally, within the UN, and spread a positive Sweden image – and not least to spread the Swedish values, where democracy is a basic bolt. We have come a long way with this in Sweden. We are, of course, working for democracy throughout the world, and of course it is about strengthening democracy in Sweden. It must never be taken for granted, but must be fought for every day. When it comes to Sweden, however, I feel no concern at all. The government is doing a fantastic job to maintain and further strengthen Sweden's image and spread our values, which are about peace, democracy, human rights, gender equality and work for the environment. I therefore have no concerns on this point. It always becomes unfortunate when loose quotes have too far-reaching consequences. The interesting thing is what the government does in its work. Of course, you can also look at what ambassadors do, but it is a much larger whole that determines what that picture looks like.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-15	Madam President, I would like It is clear that I will not stand here and discuss what has been said in talks that we are holding with our ambassadors or clarify what has been said in a particular article and how we think about it. If so, we may have such a conversation based on the role of employer and head of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We will have and have already had such conversations. It's also that no one knows everything when you're new to work, which I think Lars Beckman and Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin have also discovered. You didn't know everything when you got here. I hope you were well prepared. The same applies to whatever bosses we appoint: they will learn gradually. For example, they will learn how a certain newspaper article is interpreted or used by someone in the Riksdag in an attempt to get to a person that someone may not like very much. The criteria we set for being a manager are also objectives to be pursued. No boss knows everything. You can always get better, which is exactly what I have said. You quickly learn what is written up, overinterpreted or misinterpreted – this is a good example of such a thing. The image of Sweden in our Nordic neighbours is good and has long been well established. That cannot be changed by an individual statement by a new ambassador. On the contrary, in contacts with my Nordic colleagues I have received very positive feedback. It has been seen that this is an enthusiastic ambassador who has a great interest in the task. He is also knowledgeable, not least in terms of culture, which is important for Iceland. His comments, for example after the elections, have also shown that he is fulfilling this role and his work in an excellent way. We always work with the Swedish picture, of course. There are other examples in this area that are perhaps even more serious, for example when the President of the United States speaks about what is happening in Sweden. Then we have reason to intervene and ensure that Sweden is regarded as an active and internationally committed partner, that we are a reliable trading and cooperation partner, that we have an attractive market for foreign investment, that we are an attractive destination, that we are a leading nation in terms of high technology, research and development, and that we are an open and appreciated country to live, work and study in. Regular reports tell how well Sweden is doing right now, which is perhaps a bit heavy for the opposition to handle. This is clear, and everyone is working on their tasks as they should.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-22	Madam President, I would like I note that the Minister for Foreign Affairs continues to choose not to answer if she shares the ambassador's assessment, as he put it in the newspaper article. It was not just a loose quote but a rather embroidered explanation of how the ambassador felt that Sweden is in danger of turning into a dictatorship in the rather short term. He spoke of a child who is four years old today and who, when it becomes entitled to vote, would live in a dictatorship. So it's about 14 years. Sweden's ambassador in Iceland makes the assessment that in 14 years' time Sweden may well be a dictatorship – not a military dictatorship but some kind of dictatorship. That is, of course, a very serious statement. The Foreign Minister has so far not answered my first question, namely whether she shares this assessment. Let me return to the question of the suitability of the mission. Now we are not talking about getting into the mission and learning practicalities, but we are talking about the essence of the very ambassadorship and essence of being the highest formal representative of a country. One might wonder how the government thought when it chose to appoint a person who during the last decade in Swedish politics has made himself known to come up with mouth frogs and ill-considered statements. They have followed the person concerned and have injured both the party he previously represented and Sweden in general. Now we see the clearest example of how this harms Sweden and the image of Sweden. It was, of course, internationally rewritten when it became apparent that Sweden has an ambassador who makes the assessment that Sweden is turning into a dictatorship, in principle tomorrow. Of course, this is not about how he has or has not entered into the mission in any practical sense. I would like an answer to my first question, and I would also like an answer to this: was there, according to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, no candidate who was judged to be able to carry out this mission without error from day one? The Secretary of State has said in the media that he has not yet learned what it means to be an ambassador but that he will probably do so in the future. Did the Ministry of Foreign Affairs assess that in the existing cadre of Swedish diplomats there was no one better suited and who could fulfill this mission blamelessly, without releasing similar frogs from day one?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-28	Madam President, I would like In order for there to be no confusion whatsoever, I would first like to say that all the parties in this House obviously have to make a very important effort to spread a good Sweden picture. This is not what this debate is about, but rather the opposite: Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin is concerned that it damaged Sweden and Swedish interests when you appointed Håkan Juholt as ambassador in Iceland. It damaged Sweden and Swedish interests when this statement flew all over the world. That's why Carl ‐ Oskar has put this interpellation. Nor have I been given an answer to the question of what lessons the government has learned. The answer to my written question mentions qualifications, training and how you work, but I still have to ask: what lessons have you learned? What will you do differently in the future that will prevent this from happening again? When it comes to Sweden it is probably that it has got a little thorn. Me and Member Hillevi Larsson were at the Swedish Embassy in Vienna in connection with the visit of the Committee on Civil Liberties. We talked about hand grenades in Malmö and about a neighbor of the member of Malmö who had had his son shot to death. Those present at the embassy became increasingly whiter in the face of the Sweden picture, which is also spreading. There are two pictures. We did of course very much together to alleviate this Sweden picture, which after all existed. Austria had paid attention to the death shootings that occur repeatedly in Malmö. However, it is important to spread a positive Sweden picture when we are on a delegation trip. That is precisely why it is important for the government to take this on board. The same rules must apply to social democrats as to others – this is what seems to be the difference.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-33	Madam President, I would like When Håkan Juholt develops his quote, it is, as I mentioned earlier, that he feels a concern that there will be technocracy, an expert government. He believes that we can have fewer elected representatives and that ideologies are toned down to the benefit of expert government. In the quote about the four-year-old, it's about this risk being present when he grows old. This is therefore the case in the longer term. But regardless of this, I do not think you can judge the whole of Håkan Juholt's work on the basis of that quote, which is also being developed, but you have to make a much larger overall assessment. For example, he has a burning interest in culture. He has a lot of experience – he has been in the Riksdag for many years and has been a party leader. He has a very good foundation to stand on. He's new to his mission, too. A little later in the time, I guess you'll have to evaluate how things have gone. When it comes to my statements at the embassy in Vienna, the picture is known that there have been some shootings in Malmö, for example, from which I come. I live in the area in Malmö where there may have been the most shootings and told honestly how it has been. Sure, there's been a lot of shootings. But I'm not scared at all. I'm cycling everywhere and I'm not going to stop doing that. I don't have any bodyguards. The shootings have hit criminals in particular. So it's gangsters shooting each other. This is of course worrying in itself, but no one in the public has been affected so far. Of course we must fight crime. But I don't think that by telling you about this, I gave a dark picture of Sweden, but it was a lot of other positive things that I also presented.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-38	Madam President, I would like No, this appointment has not harmed Sweden, Sweden's interests or Sweden's image. It's nonsense to say something like that. I think most people who listen to this debate understand what this is really about. And I will not stand here and accept either that you are trying to discredit Håkan Juholt as an ambassador or that you claim that this would somehow harm Sweden's interests. As a good employer, you take such discussions directly with the person and ask: How did the interview happen? What's that supposed to mean? Is there something here that we should know about? There were things we needed to bring up and talk to him about, and we did it right away. But I'm not going to stand here and discuss that with you. I am absolutely convinced that this was not the case either in Vienna. When I meet my Nordic colleagues, especially in Iceland, they are very happy with this appointment and have already noticed that it is a very enthusiastic and actually knowledgeable ambassador that they have received. There is no reason to change our routines; they are absolutely excellent. But as I said, no one new-timer knows everything. Neither could you when you came to Parliament, but you learn gradually. I believe that all this has been conveyed and that this discussion has been taken, and that is how we should work. Above all, we have clear demands to participate in the annual management meetings, where you learn even more to become a good manager. I do not accept this starting point and will not stand here and take part in a discussion about blacking out a certain person, who, moreover, cannot be here. There is no ban on thinking or expressing one's views in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but one actually has the right to think and believe what one wants. Then it is a matter of acting in a professional way and in accordance with what the work prescribes, and I mean that Håkan Juholt will do in Iceland.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-45	Madam President, I would like You have the right to think and think what you want – yes, absolutely. It is a great right that belongs to every Swedish citizen in this country. But it is a rather evasive attitude from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that you as the highest representative of the state of Sweden in another country have the right to think and think what you want. Reasonably, we must have higher demands than that on our representatives. I note that, despite four appeals on my part, the Minister for Foreign Affairs has still not answered the first question: does she share the ambassador's assessment that Sweden risks becoming a dictatorship in about 14 years' time? I have not received an answer to the question, and I would very much like that. As a point of departure in this debate, I have to say something very remarkable, and that is the statement that Hillevi Larsson makes about shootings in Malmö. She suggests that all people who have been shot in Malmö are criminals. It would be clear to have an answer to whether Hillevi Larsson is responsible for this.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-48	Madam President, I would like This shows how dangerous it is to choose only to reproduce the first part of a sentence or to discuss a newspaper article when we do not know everything that has been said and how it has been produced in relation to what the answers were. As a good employer, we have taken this discussion directly with the ambassador in Iceland. We have made sure that he knows all the rules and that all the information is completely clear. He's been prepared in the usual way. And like I said, we all learn. We can't be expected to know everything when we start a mission. I am convinced that the Nordic countries, Iceland and Sweden will see that he will do his job in an excellent way.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-51	Madam President, I would like Lars Beckman has asked me if I intend to revise and clarify the Water Service Act so that individuals will not needlessly be forced to connect their property to municipal estates. The Government has highlighted the problems associated with the application of Section 6 (Law 2006:412) on public water services. For the individual property owner, it can be cheaper to arrange va through a single solution or in collaboration between property owners, compared with joining municipal va. However, as the law stands today, there is no incentive for property owners to organise va through collaboration between property owners. In order to reduce emissions from small sewers cost-effectively, the Government has set up an investigation that will, among other things, propose alternatives to the municipal obligation to organise public water services in larger contexts. Options that should be explored are the possibility for municipalities to decide on so-called "va-co-operation" and the possibility of making more room for individual options when they can be accepted with regard to the protection of human health and the environment and whether such a solution is compatible with the interest of good management of natural resources. One starting point is that it should be easy for the individual property owner to do the right thing based on local conditions. The government has no intention of pre-empting the investigation's proposal.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-55	Madam President, I would like I thank the Government for its answer, although I have to say that it was exceptionally thin. But it will be possible to develop it during the interpellation debate. This is an issue that many in my constituency of Gävleborg and in other counties have been concerned about. The trigger for my writing the interpellation was the program broadcast on TV4, The Cold Facts. It was a terrible hour to see how those in the countryside feel being treated. Rural waste water and sewage issues need to be seen in a broader perspective. The rural uprising that is now going on around Sweden, outside the Stockholm customs, must probably make the government responsible for. The possibility of living and working in rural areas has been made more difficult and the question becomes part of the whole. I am thinking of the government's shock increase in fuel taxes, air taxes, the threat of mileage taxes, the increase in electricity taxes and the deterioration of road infrastructure. Then I have not even mentioned the predators in Hälsingland, which we are going to debate next week. When society forces rural residents to replace their well-functioning va-solution, which TV4 reported, with something that does not produce a better environmental impact, but only becomes a cost, it becomes another manslaughter blow to rural residents. I have to say that I am suffering from the single early retirement pensioner, who has a very weak economy, who has the chance of a municipality imposing a solution at a cost of several hundred thousand which is not desired and which does not provide any environmental improvement. It is clear that there is a need for a review of the legislation, which does not currently confer any rights on the individual household. That's why it's good that the government has set up an investigation. I interpret the answer as saying that the Government wants all individual drains removed, which of course is not reasonable. There are well-functioning solutions that have worked for many years. Why, then, should households be forced to cooperate that they do not want? It is possible that I got the answer wrong, but then the Government will have to develop it. It is a question of not being able to compare big cities and rural areas. This was evident in the cold facts, and it is true of all the residents I have met who feel totally run over. I spoke to a person who lives in a municipality in my home county, Gävleborg. She had simply received a letter saying: We will draw va to your property. It is voluntary to join, but you will have to pay no matter what you choose. It is voluntary to join, but you will have to pay no matter what you choose. As a property owner, it is almost perceived as a threat. I would like the Government to develop the answer a little about what the Government thinks – without anticipating the investigation.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-66	Madam President, I would like The political discussion is often exciting. Very often we are told that we politicians are not giving clear answers, but when we give clear answers they are not long enough. So here's the situation: Lars Beckman catches the ball long after the government. This issue has been known for many years. The previous government did absolutely nothing, but this government has taken hold of it and appointed an investigator. That is what we can do when a law needs to be amended because there are problems with its application. The investigation will look at the conditions to change the law. Let me repeat part of the answer. The study will examine, inter alia, whether it is possible, to a greater extent, to allow for individual options when they can be accepted with regard to the protection of human health and the environment. I find it difficult to see how I can be clearer than that without going into the investigator's work. There is no point in me speculating on what the investigator might come up with, but we will let the investigator do his work. I can develop more on the investigator's mission. The investigator will review how the Act on Public Water Services can be amended as regards who is responsible for arranging water and sewage. A clear idea is that it can be cheaper for both municipalities and property owners if the property owners find their own solutions or join forces. In some cases a so-called common installation is a good solution, and here it is clear that there is no legislation. The aim is a more flexible legislation that can provide optimal and cost-effective solutions for both property owners and municipalities. The short answer to Lars Beckman's question is yes. And that's why we've set up an investigation.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-72	Madam President, I would like I'm wondering if the government has seen the Cold Facts program, but she'll have the opportunity to answer that. If the government had known about the problem for a long time and intended to remedy it, the property owners involved in the programme should not have suffered what happened to them. Let me take a few quotes from the program: The municipality wants to create sustainable va-solutions and has made a mad misinterpretation of what is sustainable and right for the environment, so I thought it was a joke at first. This is what Peter Ridderstolpe, who lives by the Barken, says. He also happens to be an environmental consultant. For me, which has a large plot of land, that would mean 500 000 in the connection fee, and that is not possible as a single pensioner. But you don't want to move either, says Eva Nornholm. There are those who have been forced to go to doctors for the stress over this. If you do not have $200,000, what will you do if you are 75 - 80 years old? 中, says Rolf Almstedt. These are people who live in rural areas in Sweden. It is people who are sleepless at night because they are forced to have a va-solution that they do not want or have asked for. If the government has known about this for so long, how is it that Cold Facts could broadcast a program a few weeks ago where these people of flesh and blood are actually affected? That's not good. Yes, I'm sure the alliance government could have done more. One might also wonder about the municipalities that subject their residents to this. The same programme showed that a municipality in Dalarna had said flat-rate that they thought it was bad. When it was then examined, it was not at all. So yes, both the Government and I could say that it is appallingly acted by the municipalities. However, I believe that we must have legislation that gives the individual property owner the right not to be run over. I met an elderly lady myself, a widow of over 80 years, at home in the constituency. She had a basically debt-free property and really didn't want to be connected to a municipal va-net because she didn't want to go into debt. For her, the connection fee was offensive, and she felt completely unjust. It is not decent for a country like Sweden to do this to property owners and, in this case, older people.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-84	Madam President, I would like Sometimes politicians tend to forget why they are politicians. Our mission in this House is not to always stand and chisel out details in all parts. That is what we have investigations into, precisely to find the specific technical solutions. Our mission as a politician is to point out the direction of travel, not just to give carte blanche and say... come back with something and maybe we'll do it. What the Minister for the Environment does not answer in this interpellation debate is the fundamental question raised by Lars Beckman, namely: what does the Minister for the Environment think about the fact that individuals, as exemplified here, can be imposed charges that far exceed the value of the property they hold? What does the Minister of the Environment think of this system? Does the Minister for the Environment think it is a reasonable order that we should continue to have in Sweden? Or does the Minister for the Environment think it is unsustainable and something we need to get away from? That is the question of principle that needs to be answered, and it is also, reasonably speaking, the question of principle that the investigation that looks at this must take with it into its work. Otherwise, this investigation can land in any strange conclusion. There must be a clear directive on what is the fundamental problem of today's order. Therefore, my question to the Minister for the Environment is this: does the Minister for the Environment think, as Lars Beckman has said here, that this is a major problem in principle for individual property owners?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-88	Madam President, I would like This will be a struggle for reality. I think I have to tell some history and give a little basic instruction to Member Beckman on how legislation in Sweden is done. We have legislation in Sweden that has been in place for a long time where municipalities have great influence and responsibility for what so that what will work well from a health and environmental point of view. This legislation does not work well on the outskirts of urban areas and in smaller collections of housing. This was made known to the government by the fact that a number of municipal representatives in Sweden joined forces and wrote a letter to the government that alerted the government that this is not working well. Local authorities may apply a regulatory framework in a way that they themselves do not think is reasonable, but they apply it. This was updated by a judgment that made it even more clear that it does not work on the outskirts of communities and in smaller collections of housing. As soon as we received the letter from a number of municipal representatives, who saw that citizens came in a situation that is not reasonable and where efforts are made that is not cost-effective, the government invited municipal representatives to get a deeper understanding of the problem. Based on this call, we set up an investigation to bring about a change in legislation. When you do an investigation, you not only look far and wide at anything, but there is a clear direction in the mission. This direction is a more flexible legislation so that solutions can be made based on the physical and actual situation in one place or place – more site-specific solutions. It is clear that we should look for cost-effective solutions. These should be cost-effective from the point of view of the municipality and the individual so that we get good solutions that provide good health and good environmental protection. What is important to bear is that there has been a strong technological development in this area in recent years. At the time the legislation was drafted, there were fewer technical options to choose from, but today there are more. This is one reason why it is relevant to update the legislation. There are simply more effective solutions for individuals and for smaller collections of houses which, depending on the physical conditions in a specific place, can provide the same protection for health and the environment. We have an investigation going on, and here comes the basic lesson: while an investigation is under way, the old legislation applies. There's nothing we can do about it. We have an investigation that can present a proposal so that the government can present a proposal and come to Parliament and change the law. Then we can have a change for the citizen.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-95	Madam President, I would like I don't know if it was an attempt at ruling technique to say that Carl-Carl-Oskar Bohlin and I are ignorant. However, I can tell you that the Water Services Act entered into force on 1 January 2007. Prior to that, the Act of 1970 was applicable. The law regulates water supply and sewers overall with regard to human health and the environment. The responsibility for arranging water services lies with the principal, that is, the municipality. I'd say we're pretty familiar with this. The Environment Minister's rhetoric doesn't really add up. On the one hand, the Government says that this is a problem that has been known for a long time, but on the other hand it only reacted when it received a letter from the municipalities. That doesn't make any sense. It's about people, about property owners living in the countryside. I think there may be a big city view of this. Perhaps some politicians from some parties think that big city solutions are appropriate – what I know – while the sewage issue has been solved for a long time in rural areas. As shown in the Cold Facts programme, there are property owners – older people who have low-value properties – who are forced to have very expensive solutions that they do not want. As I said in my first speech, it is good that the government has set up an investigation. It would be even better if this had been done further back in time so that there had been a solution in place. A clear signal – at least from me – to the municipalities is: Do not treat your residents in this way in the meantime, and do not impose on property owners solutions that they do not want!
i-eaabd2dfab176493-101	Madam President, I would like No one has stood in the speaker's chair during this debate arguing that the current legislation does not apply. I don't know which windmill the Environment Minister is trying to argue with. We are here precisely because current legislation creates problems. This is, in any case, the interpeller and the undersigned aware. The question is about the task that falls to us politicians, namely to point out a direction. One cannot only hide behind the fact that there is an investigation, but as politicians one must also be able to ask: where do we want to get to when the investigation is completed, what problem do we want to fix and what should the situation look like when we hopefully have corrected it? That is where the Minister for the Environment withdraws from the question of principle. Let me therefore try one last time to ask the question: does the Minister for the Environment think that it is reasonable for individuals to be forced to pay charges which far exceed the value of their properties in order to force them to a specific solution? Will this still be the case when the Minister for the Environment gets new legislation in place after the investigation is completed, or does the Minister for the Environment want out of that order?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-104	Madam President, I would like I have participated in debates in this House before. In the course of the investigation, and we have started work on the basis of an identified problem, a television programme has been broadcast, and this is what is causing today's discussion. What I am trying to be clear about is that it was not this television programme that raised the question for the government, but our investigation had already begun to work when it was broadcast. It was a good reminder of why the investigation is really needed because individuals are being squeezed and current legislation does not provide incentives for the most cost-effective solutions in all situations. In some situations, the legislation works, but it is about physical conditions in different parts of the country where it does not produce the best possible results. The fact that we have set up the investigation is proof that we in the government know how it works in different parts of the country. We listen to municipal representatives who come up with both a problem and a solution. That's the difference in the situation now. This has been a knowledge that has been discussed in the narrow va circuit for a few years. Since I was in it when I was a municipal representative, I know about it. Now a number of municipal representatives gathered and pointed to a solution, and then it was time to look at an investigator to formalise the solution in a legislation that is more flexible so that site-specific solutions can be made. This is best for the public, the environment, health and the individual, and that is what we in the government want.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-108	Madam President, I would like Runar Filper has asked me whether I consider it reasonable that the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management should choose not to publish a report and whether the authority has a responsibility to ensure that municipal authorities impose environmentally justified requirements on wastewater treatment. It is not up to me or the government to decide how the authority should act on an individual matter. According to the government form, the government may not govern how an authority should apply a law or decide on an individual matter relating to the exercise of authority. I shall therefore not comment on the fact that the Authority has chosen not to publish the report in question. As regards the issue of the responsibility of the Authority for individual drains, the Authority has supervisory guidance for individual drains under Chapter 9. the environmental code.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-110	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for the short answer. The background to the interpellation is that the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management has funded a research project on individual sewers that has resulted in the report Assessment of self-cleaning and retention in soil during testing of small sewers – infection protection and phosphorus. The report shows that phosphorus from individual sewers is not a particularly large environmental problem in the same way as previously thought. However, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management has decided not to publish the report, although it has known about the results for two years. First, the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management decided to delay publication by requiring the researchers to rewrite the report. However, even when the revised version was presented almost a year later, the agency chose not to publish the report, but apparently seems to want to delay it further. Today, the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency's current guidance on wastewater does not take sufficient account of soil retention, i.e. the environment's ability to detain and clean the waste water leaving a sewage plant. The Maritime and Water Authority bases its current recommendation on old and unsafe sources. New research is therefore important with the aim of gathering information and facts to ensure the extent to which phosphorus in wastewater really is or is not. The Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management has also not revised the guidelines that municipalities' environmental inspections use or updated the instructions, despite comments from researchers about direct errors. I understand that the Minister for the Environment, Mr Skog, cannot or should not comment on the actions of an individual authority. But does the Government really believe that it is reasonable that individual authorities, like the Maritime and Water Authority, do not ensure that municipal authorities impose environmentally justified requirements on wastewater treatment by individual property owners?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-117	Madam President, I would like I am impressed by the detailed knowledge of Runar Filer on this issue. It far exceeds my own. I don't know much about retention and phosphorus in different soil conditions. Few scientists in this country master this matter. The issue we are discussing is a scientific report commissioned by an authority, and it has been dealt with in the way that scientific reports are usually handled. It has been referred and threshed through in different ways. And as always when an authority has ordered a report, it ultimately also makes an individual decision whether or not to publish the report. The question itself is, of course, worth discussing. Where it is important that we from the political side gather information and at a more comprehensive level form an idea of how big the environmental problem with the individual sewers in Sweden is and ask the question: Do we need more instruments or more knowledge in that part? As I understand it, our authorities agree that there is a significant scientific consensus on the environmental impact of individual sewers. According to the information that has reached me, half of the phosphorus that Sweden adds to the Baltic Sea comes from land from agriculture. Other major sources are wastewater via wastewater treatment plants and via smaller wastewaters. The question of how much waste water from an individual plant needs to be treated depends on where the plant is located. If the environment is sensitive and affected by many small sewage plants located in the same place, higher requirements are imposed. It's pretty obvious. You don't have to be a scientist to understand that. If a plant is located at a distance from wells, bathing areas or watercourses, lower requirements are imposed. An assessment is made of which treatment is reasonable for each installation. If the sewage plant is at risk of contributing to eutrophication, specific phosphorus treatment is not required under current rules. On the other hand, it almost always requires a basic purification in order to reduce emissions of infectious agents and organic matter. If you do that, you almost always get a certain purification of phosphorus. The assessment of when to require additional treatment is a task for our authorities. To do so, they order research reports and collect them as part of their activities. In addition to the report we are now discussing, the Agency carried out two other projects to update the guidance on the risks of sewage treatment plants. It is, of course, my responsibility as a minister to ensure that the authorities keep up-to-date. I note that the responsible authority does just that. You order research reports, handle them and let them influence the agency's work in the way you consider reasonable.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-127	Madam President, I would like I thank Minister for Environment Karolina Skog for this. First of all, we in the Swedish Democrats would like to point out that we welcome measures taken to contribute to a better aquatic environment and to reduce possible eutrophication of watercourses, lakes and seas. It's very important. However, it should also be pointed out that many of the measures proposed for over 700 000 individual sewers in the country involve billions of costs for individual homeowners. These are costs that will be passed on to and affect rural residents and their activities. We know this. For example, a number of municipalities have threatened older people with a fine. In one case, a municipality threatened a 91-year-old man with a fine of 180 000 SEK if he did not clean up his sewer within a year and a half. The man had time to die before the municipality carried out its threat of a penalty payment. Another case concerns an elderly woman in Bohuslän who was looking for help because she could no longer sleep at night out of concern that the municipality had imposed a penalty payment of 36 000 SEK in the quarter until she fixed her individual drain. The woman's only income is her poor pension. How can it be reasonable to threaten the elderly and pensioners with the penalty payment of such large sums and give them only one to two years to rebuild their sewer at a cost of several hundred thousand crowns? In the environmental code, there is a heading on reasonableness. It shows that the authorities must weigh the benefits of a measure against the cost. It is clear from the Agency's action programme that measures against individual sewers are by far the least cost-effective method. In addition, the Authority has calculated the emissions on the assumption that there are five people living on a property. Counting estimated amounts of phosphorus for a person living alone on a property means that there is something hecto phosphorus per year. This should be set against inspection fees of thousands of SEK and investments of perhaps 100 000 – 200 000 SEK depending on the conditions. Then we have an authority such as the Swedish Agency for Marine and Water Management that says that phosphorus is the major problem. But the fact is that the individual drains are the source that emits the least phosphorus. In addition, most of this is taken up by plants and trees on the way out into the sea. Successful environmental work and action programmes must be based on trust between the actors, local participation and compensation from the state for the additional costs imposed on the individual trader or property owner. At the same time, the proposed measures must give priority to the greatest possible environmental benefits linked to costs.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-136	Madam President, I would like Today, 26 – 35% of the individual waste water treatment plants – it is not known exactly – or about 240 000 individual sewage treatment plants do not have any treatment after the sludge separator, although this has been a requirement in Swedish legislation since 1969. This means that unclean wastewater goes into ditches, streams and lakes. In addition to this, there are a large number of facilities that are so old that they are no longer working. These sewers can lead to the spread of infection, but they also contribute to eutrophication. In large parts of southern Sweden and along the coast of the Bothnian Sea, eutrophication is extensive. As I said, according to our authorities, there is a significant scientific consensus on the environmental impact of these individual wastewaters. I therefore find it remarkable that an individual Member considers himself to have a completely different information and an ability, based on his own personal knowledge, to judge this and to know better than our authorities. The work that has been done in recent years on the issue of eutrophication has been much about broad surveys and research updates on how to find the most cost-effective measures. It has been realised that there are significant differences in the cost-effective nature of the measures, depending on the geographical context. Having received this information, we have also re-screwed the support available to target the most cost-effective measures. At the same time, the authorities have changed their supervisory guidance, i.e. the guidance they give municipalities on how to work. In this way, they can also provide advice to achieve the most cost-effective solutions. There's no one size fit's all here. It is not in this way that everyone in Sweden should have the same facilities, no matter where you live and how close the houses are. That solution is not sought by any authority. We are working towards an increasingly differentiated work. Next year, the government will also increase funding for local measures against eutrophication, so that measures can be adapted to the location. What are we gonna do here? In a single bay, for example, phosphorus can have a huge impact and have major consequences for fish stocks, for example, and pull away feet for both sport fishing and professional fishing. This is a systematic exercise. I submit retention and scientific assessments to researchers and authorities.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-144	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for the continuation of the answer. We Swedish democrats have, in many cases, denounced the authorities' actions in relation to the Water Action Programme and how it affects, among other things, the smaller hydropower plants and property owners in the country who have individual sewers. As we know quite a few people have individual sewers. Action programmes and various environmental measures need to be more cost-effective and balanced between good aquatic environment and living countryside. In the case of individual sewers, these are primarily eutrophication and phosphorus discharges. However, individual drains produce so small amounts of phosphorus that it becomes unreasonable to compare with other sources. For a single drain it is about maybe 0.6 kilos of phosphorus per person per year. And no one really knows how much of it reaches the sea or some overgrown stream. According to us, Swedish democrats, action must not cause non-proportional costs, as they do in this case. A cost must therefore not exceed the environmental benefit. The so-called proportionality principle is one of the most important principles of the environmental code. There is a clear, built-in conflict here. The Maritime and Water Authority and local authorities overinterpret the rules and regulations that exist. It is a conflict that affects the rural population and which seems to be a continuation of the anti-rural policy that has unfortunately characterised Swedish politics in recent decades.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-150	Madam President, I would like I would like to conclude by pointing out that those affected by local eutrophication in watercourses, in shallow bays and in our coastal zones are those who live in those very areas. They are the ones who notice when fish stocks disappear, when bays are no longer fit, but need to be shut off and other inconveniences that eutrophication contributes to. The second perspective is more comprehensive. How are we going to deal with eutrophication in the Baltic Sea and in the Gulf of Bothnia? There's been a lot of research on that part. And it has been concluded that there is no way of getting all the way to the issue of eutrophication if we leave 240 000 individual sewers as they are today. That math doesn't make sense. To bring together the individual perspective and the overall perspective, you need to find cost-effective solutions and enable solutions that are based on local conditions. As I explained in my answer, that is the direction of both the government and the authorities. Decisions will be taken at a more local level, and funds will be increased for locally based measures that are cost-effective and suitable for a particular location. Then we get a lot of benefit for the money, have the opportunity to open more bays, can create new opportunities for fish stocks to recover and not least the opportunity to get a healthy Baltic Sea – at least sometime, perhaps even during our lifetime.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-153	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me how the municipalities will manage to guarantee places in upper secondary school if many upper secondary schools are forced to close down. The question is prompted by the fact that the Government and the Left Party agree that a bill should be submitted for a profit limit in schools and care. Similar questions from Maria Stockhaus have recently been answered in this House by my colleagues Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin and Minister of Civil Affairs Ardalan Shekarabi. I would like to reiterate the basic starting point of the government in this regard: profit as an incentive does not belong in the welfare sector. The resources that taxpayers spend each year on school should be allocated to the pupils. From an international perspective, this is by no means a controversial view. On the contrary, Sweden stands out. No other country combines a publicly funded school grant with unlimited opportunities for independent schools to make profits, an almost unregulated school choice and weak establishment restrictions for individual principals. When the liberalisations were carried out in the 1990s, the hope was that they would lead to increased knowledge and to a flora of new educational alternatives. With the facts in hand, we can see that it was wishful thinking. Since then, on the contrary, we have seen falling knowledge, sharply increasing school segregation and the emergence of listed groups rather than non-profit-driven schools. The government's starting point is that freedom of choice and diversity in welfare should be protected while the pursuit of profit should be stopped. The private actors who carry out serious welfare activities and who regularly reinvest in the business will of course be able to operate in the future. I and the government therefore do not agree that private operators will disappear to the extent that Maria Stockhaus believes. According to a survey conducted by the Swedish Free Schools Association among its members in 2014, the most important driving forces were to be able to contribute to people's development and learning, to be able to offer education of the highest quality and to be able to work independently according to their own ideas. No one answered that they did it to make a lot of money. Should some owners choose to leave the sector in a transitional phase due to reduced room for over-profits, administrative costs may be incurred by the municipalities and county councils responsible for ensuring that the activities are carried out. However, individual heads of independent upper secondary schools can already go bankrupt, lose their licence or opt out of business. Local authorities should therefore always be prepared to assume their statutory responsibilities to provide services to all citizens in cases where an external operator is unable to fulfil its mission.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-160	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. It seems to me that it is clear that the government does not actually want to see the consequences that this proposal will have. Sometimes I wonder whether it is even possible to understand the impact of this on businesses in the welfare sector. Unfortunately, the Minister for High School also does not seem to want to see what kind of manslaughter this will be for independent activities and not least how it will hit the municipalities, if the proposal becomes a reality. There is no party in this House that wants rogue actors who start and run activities only for the sake of economic gain and who compromise quality to run schools or, for that matter, to be allowed to run care. There's no one in here who wants to. The control of those who are going to run independent activities has become sharper in terms of who is allowed to start such activities and quality follow-ups through the Swedish School Inspectorate. The proposal now before us is a manslaughter battle against independent activities. Pricewaterhousecoopers, a reputable audit firm, have done a calculation that shows that 80% of independent secondary schools would be forced to close because they are unable to survive under the financial conditions provided by this proposal. Stockholm County's municipalities, which I represent, have a high proportion of independent activities at upper secondary level. Approximately 22,000 students attend independent upper secondary schools in Stockholm County. Here, too, there is an increasing need for upper secondary schools. Many municipalities today face tough challenges to ensure that there are places for all students. Furthermore, if 80 per cent of the sites are at risk of disappearing – about 17,600 places, if Pricewaterhousecooper's calculations are correct – it will be a huge challenge to ensure that there are places, to try to work with school development and to improve quality. The proposal that will now be put on Parliament's table if the investigation's proposals go through has received very harsh criticism from many consultation bodies. The fact that the Left Party is paying tribute to the proposal is perhaps not surprising. They probably do not want there to be any independent activity at all. But where do the Social Democrats stand? I have visited many free schools in social democratic-led municipalities. These schools all testify to how they are opposed by the municipality. One example is Nyköpings Enskilda Gymnasium, which is a successful business where many students find themselves and where you have good results. Nyköping's Enskilda Gymnasium is, in principle, forced every year to appeal against the compensation received from the municipality. Madam President, I would like The entire profit limit publisher is wrong. According to the proposal, the maximum permissible profit should be calculated on the basis of something called operational capital. The problem is that most businesses in the welfare sector do not have as large assets as the profit should be calculated on. This means that there are very few who will be able to have an operating margin that will make them survive. Pricewaterhousecoopers say that if a business or company, no matter what it is doing, is to survive long-term and deal with, for example, unforeseen events, such as a long sick leave or something else, one must have at least 2 percent operating margin. According to the calculations made by Pricewaterhousecoopers specifically for school activities, approximately 90 per cent of all independent preschools and 88 per cent of independent schools would not be able to survive. Unforeseen expenditure is not enough and money is not put aside for investment and other purposes. There's no way to survive. This is not about preventing people who put money in their own pocket, who send the money to Cayman Islands or whatever it may be, but it is about companies actually not being able to survive. So I wonder if the government is taking on board this proposal and if you think it is a reasonable construction of profit limitation in order to get rid of rogue actors when it is going to hit so horribly hard on so many entities.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-173	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus asks many questions about a proposal that has not yet been tabled. The thing is, we got an investigation from Ilmar Reepalu. That investigation has been out for a referral. After that, the government has announced that it will return, but the government has also clearly stated that there will be changes on some points. I do not intend to go into this interpellation debate. That question is on my colleague Ardalan Shekarabis's table. If Maria Stockhaus is surprised that the proposal is even on the table, even under discussion, has even been sent out for a referral, then I am a little surprised that Maria Stockhaus does not see the obvious problems that exist in the school market that has arisen in Sweden. In Sweden, we have a system of school management that is unprecedented in the rest of the world with the combination of an almost unregulated possibility to establish independent schools together with our school money system, which the student brings with him when the student changes school, and a school choice that is very unregulated compared to what it looks like in many other countries, for example in the UK, which I know Maria Stockhaus herself has visited. On top of this, there is an unlimited right to make profits and run schools in the form of public limited liability companies, for example. This combination was launched a large number of years ago. When it was launched – if you read what is written in the bill texts produced by the then bourgeois government – the idea was that it would lead to a higher quality. This would lead to greater diversity of pedagogy, greater equivalence, better use of resources and better results of knowledge. We now see that the Swedish school is characterized by a lot, but not by the things that the reform was intended to lead to. The entire system of school management in this way has received devastating criticism from forces that are usually very close, such as Maria Stockhaus. I can only point out the very interesting contributions that have been made in the debate by the former MP for the Moderates, associate professor... Now I must be ashamed because I lost the name, but I promise to come up with it soon. It is a woman who has a high reputation with both Maria Stockhaus and me. The interest in profit has not been the salvation of the school. Together with the other parts that characterize our school system, it has not been the salvation for the school that so many of Maria Stockhaus' party friends hoped when the system was introduced in the 1990s. The reason, of course, is that in a publicly funded school it is difficult to make profits in any other way than cutting costs. The costs are closely linked to what leads to quality in school. There is a fundamental contradiction between the pursuit of profit and the maintenance of high quality. What is the cost of money in school? To a large extent, they are teachers and teachers' salaries. Not only do profit-driven schools pay lower salaries for teachers, but they often also have lower teacher density and fewer teachers who have an educational education. I think the school should be a collaborative project for the whole community. I would welcome a collaboration across the block border where we discussed how to ensure that the Swedish school system delivers good knowledge results and great equivalence for all students. Then I do not think that our system, which includes profit-driven schools, is the way to achieve this.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-182	Madam President, I would like I will comment on some of the issues raised by the Government in its last speech. The Government said that there has been an investigation, but there is a great deal that can be steered by the directives, as this government also chose to do. This led to a proposal that would mean a killing blow for the welfare sector in Sweden. The Government also mentioned that there is an unregulated possibility to start schools in Sweden. It's probably not really my picture when I've talked to the Swedish School Inspectorate about how the assessment is done by free schools to be started. This also applies to free schools applying to start or expand their activities. It's not easy at all, and it shouldn't be easy. Of course it should be a check on those who want to start a school. Something that I think is serious is that this whole debate, the proposal that is now in place and the mistrust that the government is not least targeting the entire independent sector in the school system has led, for example, to the International English School, which is a large group – the Government seems to have something against the existence of such schools in the field of school – and of good quality – it is the school group that has the highest number of applicants in the queue, if I am not mistaken – having chosen to postpone a school establishment in Karlskrona because of the debate that is taking place and because of the uncertainty that exists. It is, of course, a large group that will certainly be able to cope with any changes in conditions, but it is much worse for not least the small preschools and also for the small schools run by entrepreneurs who have wanted to achieve something other than what has been possible in the municipal sector. In his reply, the minister of high school claims that the reform of free-school education has not led to better school outcomes. I wonder what the minister is basing it on. According to official statistics, independent schools have better results than municipal schools – even taking into account pupils' socio-economic background. Without the free schools, the results in Swedish schools might have been even worse, if one now believes that it is possible to make such a simple analysis of such a complex activity. The Government raises the issue of segregation. IFOUS has noted that the free schools have only contributed to school segregation on the margins. The main reason for it is housing segregation. Would it not be more honest to say as it is: the Social Democrats do not want independent actors, or at least not other actors than non-profits, in school. It would then be easier to understand the government's behaviour in terms of profit restrictions.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-189	Madam President, I would like I find it exciting that we can have this debate, and I would like to thank Maria Stockhaus for introducing one in the school field. Here it is most urgent to put your foot down. Is school a market like any other? Do students and parents choose schools based on facts? If the school is bad, do you opt it out, and if it is good, do you continue? Bad schools not only disappear from the way students choose, but I am convinced that we need other governance mechanisms. There are many different aspects to this. But to say that independent schools should not exist is like saying that independent schools have their basis in that they have to make profit. I choose to believe that there are many independent schools that do not have this as the main driving force but want to achieve good results and give students opportunities and conditions based on other pedagogy, other ways to learn and so on. This whole debate and the outrage of the whole bourgeoisie cannot be interpreted in any other way than that you do not want to run schools unless you are allowed to make a profit. It feels like a pretty bad starting point to me. It does not feel at all like something that an exercise of authority should mean. For that is what this means: to train in primary school is the exercise of compulsory schooling by public authorities. Even upper secondary school is a huge responsibility. Distributing resources according to the needs of students is wrestled with in many different places. For example, this is done in the municipality. I know that we have in common across all party boundaries that students cost different and that we have to find keys to allocate resources to the best way. But what is the point of allocating resources according to needs if someone says: And if I don't get it, I'll make sure I get the money over. This is what the profit incentive will mean in that case. As the Government said earlier, how do you make a profit in a school? Well, you can have fewer teachers. You can have students who are better off at school. You can pay the teachers less. There are not many other aspects. Unfortunately, many times the staff have to pay the price financially for the school to be able to make a profit. I have visited a great many schools both as chairman of the Education Committee and before. There have been municipal schools and independent schools, and I am very impressed by a lot of people. Sometimes I'm not as impressed. But I think it's pretty confident to say that the independent schools are the good ones and the municipal ones are the ones that are a little worse. I cannot say that I can make such a comparison. It may vary among both municipal and independent schools depending on where they are located in the country, which school leaders they have, what it looks like on the teacher side and so on. I would like to address a question to the interpeller Maria Stockhaus and Ida Drougge, who will speak after me. If we do not want to engage in the pursuit of profit and to put the money in our own pocket, how should we control this without having a school that has so many pointers that freedom must almost be said to be lost? We can indicate how many students there should be in a class, how many teachers there should be and what the teacher should have in salary, but it doesn't really feel like the free school that we really want to provide the conditions for. I think that we need to safeguard the long-term nature of the student, which parents should have and which teachers should have in their work in different ways. Then those who run schools must also be long-term and not think about how they can make short-term profits.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-197	Madam President, I would like As the Government itself has just said, we know that independent schools do not exist ultimately because someone wants to make a profit. They do not have it as their main interest. Otherwise, they would have pursued another activity. There are other industries where it is far easier to gain profit and earn money than in school and in welfare. I think it is good that the Government refers to the information and studies she did. The key issue and the problem on this issue are the Reepalus investigation. The proposal put forward by the investigation is not consistent with what the Government and the Government say they want to do. These two are not compatible with each other. It is not just us Moderates and the opposition who say this, but other heavy, proper bodies value, show and can clearly determine this. That is why we are coming back in this House, because we do not get an answer to the question. It is serious enough that the investigation into Swedish schools has been presented at all. For the investigation as such affects the view of the entire school sector. It also creates concern and instability among the independent schools, who feel threatened even if the government and the government believe that they are not as long as they are of good quality. It's still a picture that exists now. I don't think it's strange that the school actors experience it like this. Now the investigation is on the table, and done is done. The directives could have been written better and in a different way, but now they have not. Let's focus on the future: What can the government do better now? Can the Government say anything about when the government will return to the investigation? When will the amendments to the proposal and the proposal on the subject come back? I would like to hear something about the timetable for this.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-201	Madam President, I would like I forgot to thank Maria Stockhaus for the question. I would like to thank not only for courtesy but also for the fact that I think it is a good thing that this issue is being discussed. It is important for Swedish schools, and above all for all those children and students whose future depends on them having a schooling that is filled with learning and that makes them prepared to be citizens of Sweden in the future. However, I find it sad to be ascribed to things that I have not said; I have not said that there is a completely free right of establishment for independent schools, but I have said that the right of establishment we have in Sweden is unusually unregulated. I think I used expressions in the style of a lot of freedom or something like that. I am fully aware that it takes a permit from the Swedish School Inspectorate to start a school, but compared to many other school systems there are quite few criteria for starting a school in Sweden. I refer once again to the very interesting debate articles that have been written by associate professor Anne-Anne-Marie Pålsson. That is how the skilful Moderate Member of Parliament is called that I missed the name of in my last speech. Maria Stockhaus also claims that I am making a causal link between the introduction of free schools and all our market reforms in the early 90s and the gloomy development that has existed in Swedish schools. I have been very careful not to express myself as if one has caused the other. In fact, it is difficult to make such claims about Swedish schools, whether in one direction or the other. At the same time, it is a fact that developments in Swedish schools have gone in the wrong direction, and we have seen this during the time when these market reforms have been working. Maria Stockhaus says that there are studies showing that the results are better in the independent schools than in the municipal schools. It is a fact that the knowledge results are higher in the independent schools measured in grades. But an equally strong fact is that in the independent schools, children born by parents with high education are very over-represented. Unfortunately, this connection is very strong in Swedish schools, and this means that it is not possible to say that the free schools produce better results than the municipal schools. In fact, the latest PISA study states in the English version, published by the OECD itself, that the development of knowledge in relation to the pupils' starting point is better in municipal schools than in independent schools, a task that the Swedish National Agency for Education has not included. They have made a different analysis in their report. We have had a major debate about primary school, which is that we have a lack of resource allocation and that we need to provide more resources to those students who have the greatest needs. Unfortunately, this is a debate that we have not had in the same way with regard to upper secondary school. A resource allocation based on students' needs is a little more difficult to do with the high school market that has arisen not only in the Stockholm area but in many parts of the country. I'm going to pick up on what Ida Drougge asked about. Ida Drougge says it's serious that this investigation even exists and is on the table. I wonder if the rest of the world is informed. There is no other country that has such a system as the Swedish school system. If only the existence of this investigation is manslaughter, I'll be worried about the school systems in the rest of the world.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-209	Madam President, I would like First of all, I have a small comment to make on the results of free schools. There is something called S alsa, which takes into account the students' background. Even there, free schools perform better than municipal schools. But you can have discussions about that. It may require a longer analysis. At least at first, the government expressed the hope of reaching an agreement across the block in order to achieve long-term welfare rules and better order to keep rogue actors away. Now, instead, the government has put itself in the lap of the Left Party, a party with communist roots that believes that everything will be better if it is run in public and that it will be better when politicians decide where children should go to school than when parents and students are allowed to choose for themselves. We also want order in our welfare and are convinced that it would have been possible to reach an agreement if the government had set up an independent investigation that did not have a ruling directive, an investigation that really wanted to create long-term conditions for independent activities. The proposal that is now on the table is unserious and shows a lack of understanding of the conditions needed to push businesses forward at all. In its reply, the Government points out that I have already asked questions about the effects of welfare gains to the Minister for Education and the Minister for Civil Affairs. I withdrew the question to the Secretary of State, but I will come back with it. The reason is that for my constituency, Stockholm County, it is a matter of fate if this investigation becomes a reality. We will not be able to cope with our welfare mission if 80% of the activities are lost in preschool, primary school, upper secondary school and care. It will not be possible for us to be able to replace everything that disappears. It is an independent audit firm that has carried out an analysis and looked at the financial conditions as proposed by Reepalus. 80% are unable to survive long-term, because you can't handle rising costs that you're not prepared for. It can be as simple as someone being on long-term sick leave. I find it remarkable that you are choosing to proceed with this proposal.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-213	Madam President, I would like As there will be a representative of the Moderates even after me, I take the liberty of asking a few brief questions. This surprises me. I would like to agree with what Anna Ekström said earlier. To make an agreement across the blocs would be the best thing for school on this issue as in many others, but I find it very difficult to understand the starting point from the bourgeoisie, above all from the Moderates. Why should Sweden be unique in the world to allow a win draw? It is difficult to interpret otherwise than that you do not want to run a school unless you are allowed to make a profit and make a profit. Does it feel like a reasonable incentive to educate our children and young people to make a profit? It is possible to run schools elsewhere without profit in the rest of the world. Only Sweden has this exception. I also wonder why big profits must also be made. It is because you get 100% tax funding. We do not have a system whereby you only get 70 or 30 percent and you should charge the rest in fees or scrape it together in other ways. Where is the big risk that a company takes when it runs a school in Sweden? It would be very exciting to find answers to these questions. If nothing is done about the profits, but instead we should ensure that the money is used wisely by tightening up the regulations, do not Ida Drougge and the Moderates share the view that it can be very detailed and that this is perhaps not the way we should go when it comes to Swedish school? On the contrary, we will try to give freedom to the school and trust in schools to carry out an activity. If we were to steer school sizes, class sizes, teacher salaries, and so on, I can say that those regulations would be of great concern to me. There would be no freedom left. We should remove some of the suspicion.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-217	Madam President, I would like I thank Lena Hallengren for the supplementary questions. I think that her speech clearly shows how parts of the Social Democracy unfortunately want the debate to deal with the issue of profit broadly and widely rather than on the specific investigation proposal that we have to take a position on and that the government itself believes it should change but nevertheless take as its starting point. That is the proposal on which I and my moderate colleagues are debating and starting. It is the investigative proposal that independent schools and parents with children in those schools are worried and afraid of. The problem is not that there has been an investigation, which the Government made it sound like. I was expecting the government to conduct an investigation. I'm sure a lot of people would have expected that. The problem is the result – that the investigation looks exactly as it does and is designed in the very way it is. These mechanisms would make it more or less impossible for almost 80 percent of the independent schools in Stockholm County to remain. This is the crux of the matter. If Lena Hallengren wants to meet several actors to find out in detail how the investigation is a problem for them and how they will be limited, we can certainly arrange such meetings. Many people are interested in meeting a member like Lena. I don't think that's a problem. I would like the Government to answer the question I asked: when will the Government come back to what proposals it wants and what changes it wants to make to the investigation?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-221	Madam President, I would like I thank Maria Stockhaus and Ida Drougge for the additional questions. Maria Stockhaus refers to S alsa, a measuring tool from the Swedish National Agency for Education. However, in principle in the first sentence of the description it is stated that it should not be used for ranking. I think we should be careful about using statistical tools in a different way than they are intended for. Maria Stockhaus returns to the fact that it is the segregation of residents that is the great villain in the drama of our lack of equivalence, and that is true. Housing segregation is a huge problem. But the way we have arranged our school elections actually makes the problems even bigger. For me, it is an inviting duty to ensure that we can use our school policy tools to ensure not only higher knowledge outcomes but also a stronger equivalence, so that children and students from different backgrounds can meet in school. I would also like to highlight what Lena Hallengren has said so clearly: the free schools are here to stay. We will have a system where there is an opportunity for parents and students to express a desire for a choice. But today's system is structured in such a way that, unfortunately, with the combination of measures that we have, we do not get the school that I want and that our children deserve. As Lena Hallengren stressed, education is an elusive concept. It's really hard to regulate exactly how education should be done, and it's really hard to catch with bureaucratic rules what quality looks like. Further and even more increasing the administrative regulations that measure our school risks further impairing the diversity of the school we have. Questions relating to how the investigation will be taken forward I refer to my colleague Ardalan Shekarabi. I would like to emphasise once again that the proposal that is so strongly criticised is an investigation proposal that the government is working on.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-227	It's time for this week's Question Time. An issue shall be of a horizontal and general political nature or relate to a subject falling within the remit of the Government and related to the performance of his duties. I would like to welcome the ministers. Questions will be answered by Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin, Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson, Minister Ann Linde and Minister Anna Ekström. Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin answers both general policy questions and questions within his own area of responsibility.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-229	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin and is of a general political nature. On Tuesday, a government inquiry presented new proposals to curb crime in the rental market. In addition to the fact that it is already illegal to sell a rental contract today, it is proposed that it should also be illegal to buy a contract. The maximum penalty proposed is four years. This is twice as long as the normal punishment for a rape in Sweden. My question to Gustav Fridolin is: Does the government think it reasonable that young people affected by a non-functioning housing policy should be imprisoned?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-232	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Member of Parliament Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, for the question! The most important thing we can do to tackle the housing shortage is of course to build more, and finally more is being built in Sweden. We're building more than we've done since the days of the million-dollar program. Government investment also builds more cheap rental apartments that people with regular income have the opportunity to live in. This is crucial for students and young people to be able to move away from home and get their first residence. Of course, it is also important to combat the black trade in rental contracts and in various ways create justice in the system and to ensure that a municipal housing queue works when it is used. That is why we have examined the questions. The inquiry that the Member of Parliament is asking a question about is now being referred, and after the consultation round we will prepare the proposals.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-234	Madam President, I would like The Swedish housing market is rigged to prevent young people from entering. I understand that you get desperate when you get into dream education but you can't find a place to live. However, I do not understand how the government in one breath can drain Akademiska Hus of money and in the other breath do not say no to a proposal that the person who does not get a place of residence should be imprisoned. It doesn't make sense, Gustav Fridolin.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-235	Madam President, I would like Akademiska Hus has just been given a bigger task than before to look after, for example, student housing. What doesn't add up is moderate politics. It says, on the one hand, that you should have lower wages, which will hit young people, and, on the other hand, that you should be able to get higher rents, which also hits young people. Then it will be difficult for young people to leave home. The important thing here is to build more housing, and that actually leads the government's policy.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-236	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Hellmark Knutsson. Ivar Arpi has written two articles in Swedish where he has mentioned the Swedish Secretariat for Gender Research's activities in the academic world and how this subject has clouded other disciplines. We are not talking about equality now, because we are all for that, but about advanced gender theory, intersectionality. Arpi states that the work has an intersectional perspective. Is the government behind this? And does the Government consider that there is scientific evidence of the gender science that the Secretariat, according to Arpi, conducts?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-239	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Robert Stenkvist, for this question! I would like to begin by stating that the Higher Education Act states that all universities should always observe and promote equality between women and men in their activities. That is the higher education policy objective that we have. The strategy for this to become a reality is what is called gender mainstreaming. It is a mission that we have put on all our authorities, including universities and colleges. There is also the Swedish Secretariat for Gender Research, which is the supporting body for this. As far as scientific issues are concerned, all parties in this Parliament, I hope, are behind the rule of academic freedom. Scientific methods shall be tested free of political influence on the basis of criteria set by scientists and women themselves.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-241	Madam President, I would like After all, it was science that was the issue here. According to the Department of Political Science in Lund, all literature lists in a course must contain at least 40 percent female authors. It can be most remarkable in a course on fascism, for example, during the last century. There were simply no female fascist writers at the time. Does the Government consider this to be a reasonable order? And does the Government consider this to be in accordance with academic freedom?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-243	Madam President, I would like It is extremely important that it is not politicians who put together literature lists or have views on the content of education. What we decide on are the degree goals for the courses. Then it is universities and colleges that are responsible for the content of the education and thus also literature lists. These decisions are made independently by our universities and colleges, so also in this case, as has been explained very clearly by the Department of Political Science at Lund University.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-244	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Gustav Fridolin. In Sweden we have set very tough climate targets. That's good. We shall have no net emissions of climate gases in 2045. A wide range of policy measures will be required if Sweden is to achieve this goal, and it will only be possible if the whole of society is involved. A wide range of companies have set the same goals as Sweden, or sometimes even tougher. But some emissions take time to reduce, and others cannot be completely avoided. Therefore, the Paris Agreement also accepts that emission reductions can be made outside its own business – climate compensation, quite simply. We wholeheartedly encourage this in the Center Party. That everyone wants to contribute is amazing. That's why it's crazy that since 2014 we in Sweden have a practice that means that climate compensation is considered a gift. This means that companies' costs are not tax deductible. You don't do this by accident. They do this because they want to take climate responsibility, build a brand and be competitive. My question to the Government is therefore: When, Gustav Fridolin, do we get to see new tax rules that give companies a chance to actually compensate for climate change in a market way?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-247	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Rickard Nordin, for a really good question! Yes, if we are to do this, we must use all the mechanisms available. It is important to note that the current regulatory framework does not make climate compensation impossible for companies, but it is not fiscally beneficial. It is definitely a question that one might look further at as the various rashes are now on the table. Having said that, I would like to mention that there is a parallel discussion about how the state should achieve its climate goals. I think I'd like to put a counter-question to the Center Party and Rickard Nordin. During the Centre Party's time in government, the practice was that the emission allowances that our emission reductions had led to – i.e. the total emission reduction that Sweden's climate work had led to – were sold. Then the emissions could be done elsewhere. We have changed that practice. We are now cancelling allowances. We ensure that Swedish emission reductions actually lead to reduced emissions. I wonder: Will the Center Party maintain this new practice if the Center Party takes its place in a new government?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-250	Madam President, I would like Yes, Gustav Fridolin, you can come back after the election to Parliament's Question Time, when you sit in the Riksdag and the Alliance is in a government position. My question to you as Minister was: when do we get to see new tax rules that actually make it possible to compensate for climate change in a market way? As it is now, this is considered a gift. It's not. It is amazing that consumer power has come so far as to require companies to make these considerations, make wise decisions and take responsibility for their climate emissions. Then it must of course be deductible. When will we get new tax legislation in this area, Gustav Fridolin?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-253	Madam President, I would like I note that I answered the question. These are relatively new rashes. They may definitely form the basis for making the kind of review of Swedish tax legislation that may be necessary. Yes, it is good when companies choose to compensate for climate change, although the best is of course when you reduce your actual emissions and do your homework yourself. When there are emissions, you should try to compensate for them. This is one of the reasons why Sweden as a state is now pursuing a different policy from that of the alliance years. That was the reason for my counter-question.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-254	Madam President, I would like Right now, Minister of Commerce Ann Linde's Under-Secretary of State in Azerbaijan is with a delegation of Swedish business leaders. According to the Government, the purpose of the journey is to promote the export opportunities of Swedish companies in Azerbaijan. Representatives of the oil, gas and transport industries are to be met. But the reading of Amnesty's, Human Rights Watch's and Transparency International's reports is dark. It criticises the imprisonment of political activists, the lack of independent media, the use of torture and corruption. The Swedish company Bombardier has been shaken by a legal process regarding suspected corruption in Azerbaijan. That case has not yet been decided. In the Council of Europe, the Azerbaijan delegation has been accused of bribery and corruption. Ericsson, who is on the journey, has been associated with a company used for money laundering. Despite this, the Swedish Government chooses to go there. It continues with precision to select oily dictatorships, such as Iran, Saudi Arabia and most recently Azerbaijan. Why does Ann Linde send her associates to the oil-stricken dictatorship of Azerbaijan?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-257	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Håkan Svenneling, for the question! As part of its belief in trade's benefits for job creation, growth and sustainable development, the government has developed an export strategy aimed, among other things, at increasing exports to and trade with the major emerging markets in Asia, for example. The trip to Azerbaijan can be seen as part of this strategy. As we see it, there are interesting business opportunities for Swedish companies in the country. There is an assessment made by Business Sweden and the companies that accompany it. We also have this journey ahead of us – and this should be the rule in future – demanded by Swedish companies that sign a commitment to comply with sustainability rules and that, for example, they do not participate in any form of corruption or illegality. If you discover it, you should immediately report it to Business Sweden.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-259	Madam President, I would like It gets a bit comical when you first hear Gustav Fridolin talk about emissions and then Ann Linde talks about where to conduct trade policy. According to government evidence, Azerbaijan's GDP is reduced by 1.4 per cent. It is also a three-quarters economy consisting of revenues from the oil and gas industry. The government is thinking: There is the future. There are the future opportunities for good economic trade agreements. The question then is: why are no civil society organisations involved in this journey?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-262	Madam President, I would like From the government's side, it is part of export policy and the export strategy that we want to promote and support companies in business abroad. This is particularly true in complex and difficult markets. That is why we are now making a trip to Azerbaijan. The government representative, in the form of my Secretary of State, will accompany you. It is also the case that many oil countries have now seen the need to transform into renewable energy. There are Swedish companies at the forefront. We think we have something to contribute.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-265	Madam President, I would like Every year, approximately 100 cases of sexual harassment are reported in Swedish schools. That's a terrible number. But in all probability it is much more common than that. A large part of the dark talk is about people taking for granted that it should be like this and that everyday life looks like that. You get used to it being like this. It's really terrible. It's probably a combination of inequality – boys think they should take care of themselves – and bad order in school. Finally, the combination of gender inequality and poor work peace means that many girls have to put up with guys grabbing and grabbing. The lack of studies also has other consequences. The results are reduced, especially for those who need the school most. But this also means sexual harassment. My question to Minister Fridolin is: What is the plan to reduce the bully in Swedish schools, to reduce harassment in Swedish schools and to increase employment in Swedish schools?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-268	Madam President, I would like On this, Christer Nylander, we are in complete agreement. The courageous testimony that many have shared in recent weeks shows how extremely important politics is for school. It is at school that the basis for norms and behaviours is set. The school must never be a place where you are violated or subjected to sexual harassment. The job of security starts with the fact that there are enough adults. That's why we hire more people at school, so adults can be in the environments where young people are. It is about building relationships so that young people tell about things they experience or see and that you have the right tools to be able to act. That is why we are building a major training programme, so that, for example, we know what to do to change cultures and environments in such a way that sexual harassment is never implicitly accepted. We must also be able to intervene when something happens. This is one of the reasons why we want to strengthen the ability of the child and pupil representative to act against sexual harassment.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-271	Madam President, I would like The Minister of Education and I are very upset about this. We're probably just as upset. It is also about finally seeing that there is not only harassment at school but also outside, that it is systematic in the whole thing and that it sometimes goes really, really bad. Sometimes we have cases in Swedish schools that are terrible. We have only recently seen that rapes have taken place in Swedish schools and that the activity after them has not been in agreement with the serious crime that it actually is. There is a lack of clarity in the Education Act on the right to move a student in emergency cases. Does the Minister of Education think this should be clarified?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-274	Madam President, I would like I am always prepared to tighten laws, but it is also important for me to be clear to all the country's principals, municipalities and other principals who are responsible for creating security at their schools. The law today provides the opportunity to both turn off and move a student if it is necessary to guarantee the security of other students. Neither we nor any other party should be spreading ambiguities about this. That possibility exists, and it should be used when it is necessary to create security.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-276	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Anna Ekström. The future experiments of upper secondary school with professional schools, which are part of vocational education, are a very good idea. Students in the professional programmes will then gain a deeper knowledge of the specific fields of industry. However, adults who have completed a theoretical programme in upper secondary school and who do not have vocational training would also need something similar. Is there any idea of developing adult education with some form of business school block or package or similar?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-278	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Lena Emilsson, for this very important question! Today we have a high school where about a third of the students graduate without a complete upper secondary school degree. It's a big concern for those students. It is also a major concern for employers and the Swedish working life. The supply of skills suffers. This is particularly true of the results of upper secondary school vocational programmes. Too few have applied for too many years for the important training courses – courses that lead to jobs that are highly sought after in the labour market. When we see such a declining search pressure – the fact is that only half the number of people attending the professional programmes today compared to ten years ago – we must act and make the professional programmes more attractive. For the young students who have graduated from high school without an education that gives them the position they need in the labour market, adult education will be there, and there we will work hard to ensure that there are exactly the type of package solutions that Lena Emilsson is asking for.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-282	Madam President, I would like Adult education is very good. However, it has a disadvantage, a weakness, and that is that those who already have completed theoretical education find it very difficult to access occupational parts of adult education. Is it possible to develop some form of professional block that is packaged? After all, they already have all the theoretical education, so what they need is only the professions themselves.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-284	Madam President, I would like At the moment, all Swedish municipalities are working with what is known as regional vocational adult education, an initiative that is intended to ensure that we can ensure that more people receive vocational training and that the world of work obtains this sought-after competence. There will be good opportunities. As we create so many more places, the chances will increase to get them also for those young people who have gone on theoretical programs. In addition, we have an investigation that is currently looking at what the queue rules look like.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-287	Madam President, I would like I would like to ask my question to the Minister for Education. Salsa is a model that the Swedish National Agency for Education uses to compare school grades based on the specific school's student documentation, including with regard to the parents' level of education and the proportion of newly immigrated pupils. About 17 per cent of all primary schools in the country are free schools. But if you go through the Salsa values for all schools, it turns out that among those who have the highest Salsa values, i.e. the best grades with regard to the student base, over 60 percent are free schools. Many of these schools are profit-driven schools and will have major problems in bringing together their continued activities if the government's proposal for a profit limitation is introduced. My question to Gustav Fridolin is therefore: How does the government make it more difficult for these high-performance schools to continue their activities?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-291	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Aron Courage, for the question. It is important that there are different schools with different profiles so that I have the opportunity to go to a school that just gives me the best opportunities for life. It is also important that we are safe with those who are given our most important welfare mission: to give our children a good school. That is why clear and clear rules are needed for those who are given the responsibility of running a free school. I think we are in agreement on this. Then you need a discussion about what those rules should be. What I think, after, for example, we have seen schools that have basically been drained of money and left the students outside with a note on the door that says, sorry, I conked the school, hope you find another place, is that one of those rules should be that you have the order and the tax money that goes into the business. What you and I put into the business will also come up with the students and create quality. That is the idea of the rules that the government is currently preparing and which will then be put on the table of the Riksdag for decision.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-294	Madam President, I would like The first thing that the Minister for Education says is promising, i.e. that different types of schools are needed because the students are different and have different needs and so on. The question is just how this goes with the proposal for a limitation of profits that the government is preparing. We know that one consequence of this will be that a very large proportion of the free schools currently operating in the country will not be able to continue to do so if such a provision is introduced.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-296	Madam President, I would like Aron Modig, I know that very many of those who run free schools in Sweden do so for quite different reasons than that they want to earn rough money from it. You don't want to send money to tax havens, you want to send knowledge into the students. I am therefore convinced that these actors are prepared to set up a regulatory framework that guarantees that tax money that goes into the business, yours and my money, will actually be used to give students the very best education.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-299	Madam President, I would like I have a question for Minister of Research Helene Hellmark Knutsson. It concerns what has happened in recent weeks where we have all been brought to the attention of the Metoo campaign. We have been able to learn of terrible, upsetting stories about people who feel that they have been sexually harassed or even subjected to pure abuse. In consultation with my praoelev Julia Klein, we thought this was an important question to ask. In today's Svenska Dagbladet there is an article that shows that universities and colleges do not assume their responsibilities. This is a business where there are 400 000 students and 75 000 employees, but only ten students have been suspended during the last eight-year period. These are surprising figures.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-302	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Betty Malmberg, for a very, very urgent question! Like you, I was extremely upset about this. However, I would like to say that this is something that we started to work on already when the metoo campaign started just to find out what it actually looks like in the university world, because it is just as Betty Malmberg says: This is the biggest activity in the state. There are many employees and even more students, and everyone has the right to both complete their work and complete their studies without fear of harassment or sexual harassment. That is probably not the case, as these stories and many others have testified. Therefore, I have called the Directors-General of the University Chancellor's Office, the Swedish Council for Higher Education and the Swedish Research Council to give their views on what it looks like, and I am prepared to take further action if necessary.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-305	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. I naturally assumed that we agreed on how important and urgent it is that we actually follow up and ensure that we get things sorted out so that no student should have to suffer. I think it is good that the Minister has taken action and called on the authorities. At the same time, however, it is the principal responsibility of the headmasters of the country's higher education institutions – a responsibility that has not been taken over. That is why I would like to ask the Minister if she is prepared to also call on the principals from the country's higher education institutions.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-307	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Betty Malmberg! Of course, I am prepared to take the necessary steps to get this right. It is just as Betty Malmberg says, that visibility now comes from below, both through the campaign and through other testimony. However, the change must come from above, because it is we who have the responsibility – both principals, politicians and government managers – to make sure that there is a change. There should be a clear order to counteract this, and when it is discovered there should also be a clear order of action, and I will see to it that it is done.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-309	Madam President, I would like After all, there is a constant process of transferring power from Sweden to Europe and also from other European countries to Europe. The Swedish Parliament has on three occasions voted in favour of Treaty changes that have transferred or prepared to transfer power from Sweden to Europe. A public prosecutor has been created, we are on the way to militarising Europe, and immigration policy is also moving to Europe. Next weekend we have a summit in Gothenburg on the social pillar. It will discuss child benefits, pensions, unemployment funds, education and health care. Initially, this should be intergovernmental – that's what they say – but we know the developments. I would therefore like to ask Minister Linde whether the government at this summit or at any subsequent summit will demand that some sort of guarantee be given that this will not happen at supranational level in the future.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-311	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Johnny Skalin, for the question! We fully share the view that competence should not be transferred to the issues to be dealt with at the Social Summit in Gothenburg on 17 November. Of course, we will not demand any guarantees as to what is happening in Europe; that is up to each government. In the case of Sweden, it is also with the hearing of the EU Board. On the other hand, we are pleased that it will sign a social pillar which the Council of Ministers, the European Parliament and the Commission have jointly put on the agenda. However, we do not want this to lead to changes in competence between the Member States and the European Commission.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-314	Madam President, I would like It is surely up to the people to decide where the power should lie, not up to the respective government. That's the point of my question. There have been three Treaty changes in which the Swedish Parliament has decided, without first asking the people, that the power should be moved. With the latest Treaty, the Treaty of Lisbon, no less than 68 policy areas were moved. When I put the question here in the speaker's chair to the Prime Minister, he mentioned that one cannot promise that one should not militarise Europe, that is, create a military union. Can we promise that there will be no social policy at European level?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-316	Madam President, I would like There are already some elements of social policy that are at a common European level. These are the directives where there are minimum requirements as to what is the least that all EU countries should comply with. I suppose the question means that Johnny Skalin wants a referendum every time there is going to be a change or something is going to be moved. It is also not something that can be promised because it is the Riksdag that makes decisions.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-318	Madam President, I would like I would like to put a question to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin on the same subject as my colleague from the Liberals asked earlier. The order, or rather disorder, that prevails in Swedish schools today is not acceptable. I don't really find a correct word. The school should be a place where students build up and have an opportunity to form and create a secure future, not where they break down. We agree that schools, school management and principals have the obvious responsibility. The Minister himself mentioned some general measures on this point that are good. I believe that we politicians also have the responsibility to dig where we stand with all the power we have. When will the government come back with strong measures to ensure security in our schools?
i-GmRJcphvvzrJqRETYSKzT9	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Ida Drougge, for the question! No student should be subjected to sexual harassment or other harassment at their school. You shouldn't have to do that at any workplace at all. But in school, where so much of our relationships, expectations for the future, self-confidence and self-esteem are set, it becomes even more important to secure both equality and security. The concrete measures are to ensure that there are more adults at a school where teachers run from one lesson to the other. Since it is difficult to build the relationships needed to create security, 20 000 more have been employed in school. We must ensure that we build a major training programme on issues relating to how to work with leadership in the classroom and security between lessons. Furthermore, we must ensure that the child and pupil ombudsman is given a mandate to work against sexual harassment, just as against other violations, and can deal with the complaints that come into the field – which is a shortcoming of the legislation that the previous government left behind.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-323	Madam President, I would like I am in favour of those proposals. It is a work that has been going on for a long time, and it is nothing new that the Minister mentions. We are seeing today how victims are forced to move. Recently, new data on TV4 revealed that it is the victims who are moving from school rather than the perpetrators. The Vice-Chancellor's responsibility therefore needs to be more explicit than today and the tools more and easier. Is the Minister willing to come back with sharp proposals on this point?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-326	Madam President, I would like I can recite a number of other measures, ranging from reinforcements in the preschool curriculum to strengthening children's knowledge of body integrity to measures that provide support to teachers who will act when they see sexual harassment, where to turn and how to report. I turn to the specific question by Ida Drougges. We are fully prepared to propose legislative measures if there is a need, but there must be no uncertainty or uncertainty on the part of the principals that today's law is sufficient. You can both turn off and move a student if it is necessary to guarantee the security of other students, and you should use that law when needed.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-329	Madam President, I would like Reading a really good book and dreaming away to new worlds is something that I and many with me love. Last week it was reading holidays, and reading holidays is an initiative initiated by the government in 2016 that means that we want our children and young people to regain power over the word. Language and literature give us the knowledge we need to influence our lives and dreams. I am very pleased with the government's commitment to our children and young people and their reading. But both the politician and the high school teacher in me are worried that SCB points out that young adults belong to a generation where reading falls.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-332	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anna Wallentheim, for the question. It wakes up the love of reading in me, too. I guess none of us have forgotten the first time we really drowned in a book. For me, it was Anne at Grönkulla who made me forget about time and space and believe that I was actually on Prince Edward Island a hundred years ago. I indulge all children and young people that feeling. I also treat all young adults to that feeling. I would like to point out here the almost forgotten part of Swedish education policy and cultural policy that we call peoples' education. Today there are worrying figures about not only young adults' reading but also worrying figures about young adults' views on democracy. I believe that the government's investment in the 2018 budget bill, which is really a public education budget, is just what is needed to ensure that the infrastructure that our folk high schools and study associations can provide can be used for better reading.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-336	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Minister, for your answer. It is of tremendous importance that we make this generation understand that reading is something that can affect their lives. It is also particularly important because it is about people who may in the near future start a family and thus be a role model for their children. I therefore encourage the Government and the Government to continue the important work and develop new ways to reach our young adults. Perhaps the Government can give some concrete examples of what proposals are to be made.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-339	Madam President, I would like It's so nice to have the question. We have a tendency to see education as something useful – it is certainly useful. Education is good for getting a job and for further learning. But education is also useful in order to be able to assume its responsibilities in our democratic society. For example, the effort made in the work of study associations is about providing parents with good knowledge of their children's schooling. It is a typical initiative that could lead to increased voluntary involvement in reading by parents as well.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-341	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Knutsson. My question concerns the same subject raised by Robert Stenkvist, but I will cut my question on another led. As we heard Stenkvist tell, at the Department of Political Science in Lund a lecturer has recently had to see his literature list supplemented by a female queer feminist despite his course on modern society and its critics based on original texts by fascists at the turn of the century. At that time there were no female fascists who were writers, and so there was no way for him to include them on his literature list. The queer feminist who was placed on his literature list had nothing to do with the subject. The teacher refused, and the course was cancelled. Instead, students had to apply elsewhere if they wanted to take such a course. I'm not saying gender mainstreaming is hokus pocus-- really not. I would like to ask whether it was indeed the intention of the Minister for Research that the National Secretariat for Gender Research should integrate gender equality so radically that courses are cancelled.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-344	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Abrahamsson, for the question. As I said, we have discussed sexual harassment and other gender equality issues, and for me it is extremely important that the academy is equal. This is also what the Higher Education Act states – that women and men should be able to conduct both education and research on equal terms. But the Higher Education Act also states that you should maintain high quality in education and research, and these are the tasks you now have to ensure that you do well. However, it is the authorities that independently ensure both the interpretation and implementation of laws and regulations. As a minister, I will not rule over that. In addition, the content of courses and literature lists must be determined by the university and the teachers themselves. As I said, the Department of Political Science at Lund University itself has responded to this, and I must recommend reading that answer.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-347	Madam President, I would like I was hoping I wouldn't have to make it up to you that I'm not behind metoo calls and stuff like that. I'd have thought I'd get out of it, but okay. We say this, then: In Norway, attention has been paid to gender mainstreaming at the Department of Political Science at Lund University. Negative attention has been paid to this. I think it may be detrimental to the reputation of Swedish academic freedom. I would like to hear the Council of State's comment on this.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-349	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Abrahamsson! That was precisely my answer and my comment in the first part, and it has also been answered by the Department of Political Science at Lund University. It is said that arguments and quality drum other criteria. Then it is that way all the way. It is also the most important goal for me – that you can manage education and research of the highest quality, but that you also maintain equality between men and women. It is a gender equality policy objective, and gender mainstreaming is the tool we have for it.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-352	Madam President, I would like I, too, would like to ask a question to Minister for Higher Education Helene Hellmark Knutsson. The lack of trained teachers is still large in Sweden today. Major retirements are also expected in the future, which makes the shortage even more acute. An important factor in getting more teachers and strengthening the teaching profession is to make teacher education more attractive and improve quality. Recently, the University Chancellor's Office presented its pilot evaluation of basic teacher training and pre-school education. Two out of eight trainings failed. In the case of teacher training, problems with large drop-outs have also been highlighted in the past, but also low admission requirements for those who apply. At the beginning of the week the Metro newspaper wrote that in some subject teacher education there are as many as two out of three students who start the education that do not continue. My question to the Government is therefore whether she is satisfied with the developments we are seeing in teacher education. If she is not, what steps is she prepared to take with regard to teacher training?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-357	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Christensson, for this urgent question! We are, as I said, in the midst of a great shortage of teachers. Today's Society said that one in ten schools find it difficult to recruit. It is therefore important that we get more teachers, but we will also ensure that teacher training is of the highest quality. That is why the first major national quality evaluation of the new teacher training is now being carried out so that we can really see what it is that needs to be addressed. But we have also taken steps to improve quality now. It is about quality money, 250 million SEK a year, for more teacher-led time. It is also about us now adding money for graduate schools to teacher education to get more researchers and a stronger research link in teacher education. These are some of the measures that we need to take. Then we also need to ensure that there is an increase in the flow of certain training courses.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-362	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for this! But my question was more about whether the Minister and the government are prepared to review teacher training as it stands. When it comes to government initiatives, there has been a great focus on more places. However, if two out of three people start training, they do not need more places, but they need to strengthen the quality so that the training is sufficient and there is a throughput. It is also about finding alternative ways to enter the teaching profession, for example by strengthening the KPU.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-364	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Fredrik Christensson! This is exactly what we do – we open up more ways into teacher education, including through the KPU. We have a big package for that in the forthcoming budget. We are also testing new forms of admission, including the aptitude test. Then I would like to make a correction. In fact, the education where we have had the greatest problem with defection is subject teacher 7 - 9, and we are already changing it. However, for example, pre-school education has a higher pass rate than the average in the university.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-367	Madam President, I would like My question is to Minister for Education Gustav Fridolin and is on the same theme as Christer Nylander and Ida Drougge raised, but from another side. It's about the teachers. It is about the opportunities for teachers to give students studyo and focus on knowledge development. There is an increasing trend that Dagens Nyheter has addressed in a survey: mess, late arrivals and high noise levels but also threats and violence against teachers. Over 70% of the reports relate to violence, and they are committed by pupils against teachers and other school staff. Several reports state that similar violence has taken place in the past, even on a regular basis. This is indeed a worrying development. I would therefore like to hear what the Minister has to say about this situation, which is alarming, and what tools he believes can be used.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-370	Madam President, I would like Thank you, AnnAnn-Charlotte Hammar Johnsson, for the question and for highlighting this! Our schools must be safe workplaces for teachers and all other staff who work there, just as they should be safe for the students. When you end up in a situation where a teacher has been subjected to a threat or, even worse, has been subjected to direct violence, you as a teacher must be able to be sure that your headmaster is there for you, that a crime is investigated by the police, that the student who carried out the crime is taken care of and that there is a police report that can lead to action against the student and that a student who is of criminal age is convicted. Of course, this requires strong principals who are in every position to stand up for their teachers. We know that we have it, but we also know that we can better rig the systems so that principals can have that strength, have the time to do it, and ensure that they are there for teachers in every step.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-373	Madam President, I would like I share that view but feel that it is far away, although there are principals who rig this very well. There are tools today. The Minister has talked about a chain and how to do it. But there are teachers who tell us that they do not get a response to what they report. There are teachers who call and say that they cry on Sundays and have stomach pains to be called gender words and all sorts of things during the weeks. We can't go on like this. Something really radical is needed here and now to stop this. What does the Minister intend to do?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-376	Madam President, I would like It is obvious that it should not look like that for any teacher or someone else in a workplace in some humane profession. I think, however, that a lot of teachers would like me to say in the answer that Swedish school can, after all, stand out as one of the safest school systems in the world so that there is also said. But that is no excuse and no consolation for the teachers who are exposed or, for that matter, the students who are exposed. If teachers do not feel that they have the support they need from their principal, each principal must ensure that you can receive that kind of information from their teachers and act – also against the principal if necessary.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-380	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Trade Ann Linde. Trade is central to the Swedish economy, and of course trade can also in different ways be a positive force for developing and cooperating countries. So my question is briefly: how can we ensure that trade also promotes equality and, on the basis of the feminist foreign policy that we conduct, ensure that trade fully serves women as well?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-382	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much for a question that I am happy to answer, because this is close to my heart. A feminist trade policy is self-evident, but it has not been seen as easy to achieve. Therefore, Sweden has invested money to develop a tool for analysing trade agreements from a gender perspective. We presented this in Geneva this summer, and it is simply a matter of looking at the different ways in which trade agreements will strike for men and women and, if you see them hitting negatively for women, see how to do it better. In addition, we are trying to get gender equality issues in both the OECD and the WTO trade agenda.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-386	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Minister, for your answer. The existence of reasonable trading conditions is a prerequisite for us to be able to contribute to development in other countries. If we now ensure that we have equal trade, I think that this will lead to more women being given the opportunity to work and provide for themselves, thereby strengthening women's situation. What can Sweden do further, in addition to working in these international contexts?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-388	Madam President, I would like One thing we can do is to ensure that equality is much higher on the agenda of the World Trade Organisation. Now the World Trade Organisation will have its meeting in Buenos Aires in December, and Sweden has pushed us to have a so-called Geneva Gender Champions Agenda to ensure that the issues of gender equality are included in the final document. More and more people are supporting this.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-390	Madam President, I would like Up in the gallery I have with me Elvira and Vera, who go third year on the community program at Knut Hahnsskolan in Ronneby, two very young and bright ladies who, like me, are concerned about the lack of teachers we see in the next few years, when 100 000 teachers need to be recruited. Every other teacher who was newly employed during the previous academic year lacked a higher education degree, is now showing statistics from the Swedish National Agency for Education. This is most affected by pupils in comprehensive school and SFI, but also at upper secondary school level. Hosted colleague Christensson highlighted this from a perspective. I will ask Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin to think about this area as well. How are we going to solve the acute problems of lack of teachers that we see, not only when it comes to recruitment into the education system but also when it comes to getting those who are inside the system to stay?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-392	Madam President, I would like Yes, the shortage of teachers is great; in several subjects it is acute. This is noticed by each Vice-Chancellor in the recruitment phase, and unfortunately also students. In addition to ensuring that more teachers are trained, as Helene Hellmark Knutsson has clearly explained, we must also ensure that teachers want to stay and develop in the profession and that teachers are prepared to return to the profession when they have done other things. Here we now see a couple of really good underlying trends: Teachers seem to stay to a greater extent than before, partly of course because we make big investments in increased wages and a good wage development for teachers. We also see that the number of teachers returning after at least three years in another profession has increased by 40 per cent since 2014. These are very positive figures when we have a lack of teachers. One more important thing is, of course, to employ other staff. Anyone who has followed a teacher's daily work knows that teachers do much that you don't need to be a qualified teacher to do. Then hiring others who relieve teachers so that they can focus on what creates quality in teaching is an important measure.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-396	Madam President, I would like When it comes to that last one, we might have some different pictures. Above all, the Minister of Education, of course, meets more teachers in his office than I might in my daily life. But I have concentrated on meeting 100 teachers, especially first teachers but also teachers in all stages of primary school, in Blekinge, and I get a slightly different picture. I am very concerned about the actual school situation but also about the loss of appetite for what was previously a cold. How do we make the teaching profession more attractive?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-397	Madam President, I would like There are two things that determine a professional attractiveness. That's the salary. That's where we're making big investments. Our assessment of the teaching profession must not only be expressed in words; it must also be clear wage developments in the profession. But of course it is also the work environment: that you have the opportunity to do what creates creativity and quality in your profession and get the opportunity to work with the students. Then it is important to hire others, who can relieve teachers with different tasks, and also specialists, who you can work with, for example, in student health. This will provide the necessary support from professions other than the teaching profession at school.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-400	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. More recently, as we have heard here earlier today, there have been several reports in the media about how students, mainly girls, are subjected to violence by schoolmates. We have also heard the Minister say that there are tools to solve this, but the problem is that the current tools of the school law are extremely limited and not sufficient to address the problems. Many times the vulnerable student is also forced to change school while the perpetrator is left behind. In other words, action is needed. The Swedish Democrats have therefore proposed the introduction of a duty school – a separate school with specially trained and competent staff, to which non-criminal pupils found guilty and who are a danger to other students are moved.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-404	Madam President and Patrick Reslow! Today's system means that a Vice-Chancellor has the opportunity to shut down a student with immediate effect. You can also choose during the suspension to ensure that the suspended student can continue in certain subjects in which the student is particularly tough or receives certain types of instruction during the suspension. During the suspension, you can do the investigation necessary to determine whether the student should be moved to another school – that possibility exists. Municipalities can also organise this with school units in different ways, but they have a responsibility to do so in the way necessary to maintain the safety of all pupils in school. These opportunities exist today, and it is important for me not to create insecurity and uncertainty among those responsible for each school as regards the possibility of making these decisions. We have seen how the Swedish School Inspectorate has had to give municipalities a penalty payment for not using the tools even though the law allows for it. Then, of course, I must stress over and over again: the tools exist and must be used when necessary.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-406	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply, but the Minister must also be aware that the option of shutting down pupils is extremely limited in time. In practice, moving someone to another school means moving within the same municipality. The problems remain and are not solved, which is why we also see them increase. It is regrettable, I think, that the Minister does not come up with more concrete examples of what you are going to do. The Swedish Democrats are thus the party that protects the caring students. We're their only guarantor.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-408	Madam President, I would like No, Patrick Reslow, their guarantors are the knowledgeable, competent and committed teachers we have in Swedish school and the responsible principals of Swedish school – not any individual party. What I am describing is the legislation we have, which gives them the tools to fulfil their responsibilities for each student to receive education and for all students to be guaranteed security. The tools are in place. The ability to use the tools needs to be strengthened, including through information actions.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-410	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to Minister Helene Hellmark Knutsson. The issue is research, specifically the development of new drugs to combat the multi-resistant bacteria. Today, scientists, medical doctors and veterinarians agree that the multi-resistant bacteria are here. It is a problem not only in Sweden but internationally. Developing new drugs is very expensive. It takes time and also requires cooperation across countries and continents. I therefore wonder what the government is doing to help research to combat the multi-resistant bacteria actually come about to a much greater extent than is the case today.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-413	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Margareta Cederfelt, for an incredibly urgent question! This is one of today's major global health challenges. It is very important, as the honourable Member says, to quickly develop new antibiotics that can be used against this and also to support research and application in order to reduce the use of existing antibiotics. What we are doing through the research policy bill voted through by Parliament in April this year is that we are investing in a ten-year national research programme, which is precisely against antibiotic resistance. This is something for which our research councils, the Swedish Research Council and Forte, are jointly responsible. In addition to developing new medicines, it is also about the use in healthcare, for example.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-415	Madam President, I would like It is quite true that the use must be changed. Hygiene must change. But that is not enough. Multi-resistance is here now. It's a fact. A national programme is excellent, but more needs to be done. There must be international cooperation. It must be much wider in scope of the research being carried out today. The pharmaceutical industry is doing a lot, but it also needs funding. Basic research is needed. There's a need for close-to-patient research. Research is needed in all areas.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-417	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Margareta Cederfelt! You are absolutely right that this requires international research cooperation. There is also something going on. It also exists within the framework of the research cooperation we have in the EU. In addition, Sweden is an attractive country to cooperate with in this research precisely because we have been very successful in reducing the use of antibiotics. But, as I said, we need new medicines, and that also requires common international funding.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-419	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ann Linde. Recently, EU countries agreed that it would be possible to make demands on the same pay and conditions for workers working in the same country, regardless of which country they come from. It is a good and important step for a fairer Europe – for workers but also for companies, which can compete on fair and fair terms. That this was a good decision is also something that the Swedish people agree with. A convincing majority of 76 per cent state that they believe that Swedish salaries should also apply to posted workers. At the same time, we see scepticism in many parts of Europe: many do not feel that the European Union is doing anything for them. Prime Minister Löfven, together with the President of the Commission, has called a summit to be held in Gothenburg next week. It will discuss, among other things, how to create new jobs, how to improve working conditions and how to increase transition opportunities – simply issues that affect European citizens. That is why my question to the Minister for European Affairs is: what can we hope to get out of the Gothenburg Summit?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-424	Madam President, I would like Thank you for this urgent question, Erik Ezelius! I think the most important thing is that Stefan Löfven and the President of the Commission, Mr Juncker, are now putting the social and labour issues back on the agenda. For ten years we have had an economic crisis in Europe. There has been talk of saving the banks, of ensuring that there is no economic collapse in the euro zone, and of different types of six-packs and two-packs, but people and people's opportunities for good work and good social conditions have been forgotten. There will now be discussions on issues such as access to the labour market, fair working conditions and how to support between jobs in order to take on the new jobs that come. The fact that both the social partners and almost all the Heads of State and Government will meet in Gothenburg will be a great manifestation because it is once again time to put these issues high on the agenda. I think it will have great political significance.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-428	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Gustav Fridolin and is of a general political nature. The water operations investigation has been on the table for a referral. Now the answers have come in, and there are a lot of unanswered questions. One question is who will finance the efforts needed to ensure that all Sweden's dams, which are 11,000 in number, meet environmental requirements. For small hydroelectric power, a fund is proposed that is part-financed by the industry itself, but for dams that do not have power generation this is not possible. The owners of the ponds are expected to bear the cost themselves, and if the owners choose not to seek permission, only disposal remains, with the risk of major cultural monuments being lost and the now established fauna and plant environment being destroyed. This will be an unreasonable and hopefully undesirable consequence even for the Red Green Government. My question to Gustav Fridolin then becomes: Does Gustav Fridolin think that the removal of Sweden's ponds is a reasonable result, and if not, how does Minister Fridolin mean that this can be avoided?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-432	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Mrs Cecilie-Toftby, for the question! This is a question of how Sweden should implement the EU rules that govern the waterworks, also the small waterworks in Sweden, and how we ensure that they are managed in a way that is in accordance with environmental requirements and other things, as well as how we weigh it against other interests. We've received the investigation. It's just been for a referral. I know that several of the questions raised by the honourable Member are included in the referrals. The question is now being prepared in the Government Office, and I must therefore ask the Member of Parliament to address the question institute to Minister for the Environment Karolina Skog for a final answer to the question.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-435	Madam President, I would like My question is addressed to the Minister for Space. In the land of the northern lights, just outside the village of Paksuniemi, is Esrange. Among other things, they send up sounding rockets for research purposes, but they say that they could do more for research, for sustainable development and for growth both in the region and in Sweden and Europe. My question to the Minister for Space – perhaps the best post in the government – will then be: How does the Minister view the possibility of launching small satellites from Esrange in the future?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-438	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the urgent question, Emilia Töyrä! For a long time we have been looking at the possibility of increasing the capacity at Esrange so that Sweden can become one of ten countries in the world to launch satellites, in this case small satellites, in orbit. The work is now progressing as the Swedish National Board of Space and Space Management have been commissioned by the Government to develop a business plan for this. We also hope to be able to assess this in the forthcoming space strategy. This provides enormous opportunities both for climate research and the work to meet the global societal challenges we have as well as for innovation capacity. This would mean that Esrange would become a new form of test bed for the new technology, which will affect many both societal and business areas in the future. The space sector is fascinating, but above all it creates a lot of university-based jobs – which I also think is good for Norrbotten.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-442	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin. Everyone agrees on the importance of early intervention at school. The problem we fully agree on – it is not acceptable as it is today, that the bulk of special support is given in secondary school. That more needs to be done is clear, but we do not believe that the reading-write-count guarantee is the solution. There are a lot of heavy consultation bodies that agree with that. For example, the Swedish National Agency for Education says that current legislation is clear and that the new proposal on the reading-write-count guarantee creates double regulation and more detailed control. SKL wonders where trust in the profession ended up, and Statskontoret says that there will be a focus on process and not on content in teaching and support measures. Why does the government choose to put forward a proposal that receives such harsh criticism from such heavy consultation bodies, and why has the criticism not been answered?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-445	Madam President, I would like Criticism is answered in the bill. It is also the case that the bill has the support of several of the really heavy consultation bodies. The proposal has the support of the expert authority in this area, the Special Educational School Authority, which has to review the legislation and ensure that it can work and provide opportunities for what we all want to achieve, namely early support. The proposal is supported by the Swedish School Inspectorate, several municipalities – including several bourgeois-governed municipalities – and student organisations, as well as by the National Association of Teachers and the Swedish School Leaders Association as well as the entire disability rights movement. Why? Well, to see that if we are to ensure that support is put in place early, we need legislation that guarantees that the teacher has a mandate to get the support in place. Teachers today see those students who really need support. It is identified and often goes to the Vice-Chancellor to ensure that the support is in place, but then the years go by without the support coming. The focus of special support will therefore be at the end of comprehensive school, when grades are applied. With these rules, we could change that, and that is why we have put them on the table of Parliament. We hope for good parliamentary treatment.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-449	Madam President, I would like My question goes to Minister Ann Linde. Sweden is a small, very export-dependent country. I represent Västmanland, which is a small, very export-dependent county – the most export-dependent in Sweden. Free trade is extremely important for our county and our country. This is not about unregulated trade free of demands on fair terms and other things, but about free and fair trade. The global trading system is now under enormous pressure after Donald Trump has terminated free trade agreements. TTIP has been put in the freezer, and we see strong protectionist currents around the world. I would therefore like to ask Minister Linde how the EU's free trade negotiations are progressing. Will TTIP be thawed out of the freezer? What can the CETA agreement mean, and what effects will it have on Swedish exports and trade?
i-eaabd2dfab176493-452	Madam President, I would like Thank you for the extremely important question, Olle Thorell! Indeed, Sweden is very dependent on free trade. About 1.4 million people have jobs to go to because of exports. What is interesting to see now that we have a provisional agreement – the CETA agreement – started with Canada is that exports have increased by 16 percent in the first half of 2017. So it makes a difference. We have 13 000 people who are directly employed thanks to the Canada Agreement. However, work is under way on several other agreements. The main focus is now on the agreement with Japan, which we hope will be completed by the end of the year. This also applies to agreements with Mexico and the Mercosur countries, namely Argentina, Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay, and negotiations are ongoing with the Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia. When we had the agreement with South Korea, exports from the EU increased by 50%, and it was not least Swedish goods. So we can see that free trade makes a difference.
i-eaabd2dfab176493-456	Madam President, I would like My question concerns the subject raised by Robert Stenkvist and Maria Abrahamsson, namely the course Modern Society and its critics, where the course's irrelevant literature was allocated. Quotation of literature means that who wrote the book becomes more important than what it says. In reply to Maria Abrahamsson, the Government said that the content of the courses should be determined by the department and the teachers. Obviously this has not been the case, so my question is: What does Minister Knutsson intend to do to ensure that teachers' academic freedom is not restricted and questioned?
i-UXiWy34ZLaZZ1ntpUHqk7j	Madam President, I would like Thanks for the question, Boriana Åberg! As I said earlier, I believe that the most important thing to be able to participate in this discussion is that they also read the answer from the Department of Political Science at Lund University. This is a discussion that will take place at our universities and universities. For example, how should legislation be interpreted and implemented? This is precisely about the objective of equality, for example, but also about quality in education. I will never interfere in that discussion. Nor will I, as a minister of state, interpret my own legislation or Parliament's legislation for our authorities, but it is up to them to do so in the best possible way. The protection of academic freedom is something we agree on, not least here, and it should continue to be done.
