i-5540bde40978b484-8	Mr President, I would like to Honourable Members and listeners! Sotiris Delis has asked me whether Sweden intends to take action either as an individual country or as a member of the EU to protect the Greek minority and its human rights in Albania in general and in the Himarë region in particular. The protection of human rights is a cornerstone of Swedish foreign policy and, together with democracy and the rule of law, is a key area for Sweden's reform cooperation with Albania. The human rights situation, democracy and the rule of law in Albania are highlighted in the country report published by the Ministry for Foreign Affairs in April this year. Like the European Commission's 2016 country report, it states that Albania has a fairly good legal framework to guarantee and promote human rights. The framework is broadly in line with European standards, and the country has ratified most international human rights conventions. However, shortcomings in the implementation of legislation due to weak state institutions are a persistent problem. Sweden therefore supports Albania in its reforms in this area bilaterally and via the EU. Furthermore, we also provide comprehensive support for the work of civil society organisations to improve the protection of human rights. For Sweden, the EU is a central platform for work on human rights, democracy and the rule of law. In the context of the EU's enlargement processes for the Western Balkans and Turkey, the principles of the rule of law, in accordance with the approach Sweden supports Albania's EU approach politically and through the cooperation on reform. In the dialogue on Albania's EU approach, we have stressed the importance of meeting the EU acquis and criteria in order to make progress in the EU rapprochement process and the country's democratic development, not least as regards the protection of human rights, including for minorities. Improvements in the field of human rights are one of five key priorities that the EU has clearly set as a criterion for Albania's continued EU approach. We welcome the recent adoption by Albania of legislation aimed at meeting the Council of Europe Framework Convention on the Protection of National Minorities. The Council of Europe is expected to give its position on minority legislation by the end of the year, and the implementing legislation that now remains will be important to ensure that Albania meets international standards. The situation in the Himarë region should be seen as a broader issue concerning the deficiencies in the protection of property rights and unresolved disputes over land issues in Albania overall. Albania needs to address the lack of protection of property rights in that country, as well as the ambiguities surrounding unresolved disputes on land, including in the Himarë region. This is also a requirement of the European Commission in the EU-wide process. The problem is widespread and affects many different groups in society – including the Greek minority, Roma and other minorities – not least in connection with the reconstructions taking place in different parts of the country, such as Himarë. It is important that the local population is consulted and that regulations for, for example, reconstruction are complied with. Sweden continues to emphasise the importance of Albania implementing the necessary reforms resulting from the EU's EU-wide requirements, both bilaterally and via the EU. Furthermore, we intend to push for the country to follow the recommendations of the Council of Europe and the European Commission on human rights, including the protection of property rights and of minorities. Sweden will also continue to provide support through our reform cooperation with Albania, including the work of civil society organisations to improve the protection of human rights including for minorities.
i-5540bde40978b484-16	Mr President, the Minister for Foreign Affairs – good morning. First of all, I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for his reply. I also note that the Ambassador of Greece is present following the debate. Welcome! My opinion and that of the Moderates is that Sweden should work in international contexts to protect vulnerable minorities. The equal value of all human beings is fundamental. Sweden will protect a cohesive EU. We shall continue to work for a free, democratic, peaceful and united Europe. We will focus on the Eastern Partnership and the Balkans. The EU should be open to all countries that are willing and able to meet the requirements of membership. The path to membership is often demanding and complex, but membership is an important incentive for reform. It promotes stability, economic and social development and continued reconciliation. If, instead, we close the door to countries that want to join and live up to the tough demands of membership, we risk having an economic downturn and destabilised development in Europe. Meeting the EU's membership criteria is what essentially gives membership its great value. Membership creates the conditions for becoming part of a community of free societies and competitive economies. The Western Balkans are part of Europe where minorities and religions are areas with future challenges. Albania is a candidate country for EU membership since 2014 after four previous refusals. Albania's formal application was submitted in 2009. Membership negotiations have not yet begun. In 2014, Albania was required to implement reforms, particularly in the administrative and judicial fields. In addition, there were increased demands for action against corruption and organised crime, as well as for fundamental human rights. The European Commission's 2016 report considers that the protection of human rights in Albania is broadly in line with the rest of Europe, but nevertheless, the report believes, among other things, that the application of human rights in the area of property rights and that the living conditions of minorities need to be improved.
i-5540bde40978b484-21	Mr President, I would like to Sotiris Delis and I share the view on the need for EU proximity and the importance of the EU approach process. When I've been to visit Albania, this is something we've stuck to. This includes, for example, a fundamentals first. It simply means that we start by looking at how democracy works. Is there a protection of human rights? What are the problems of including minorities, for example? This is an incredibly central part of the EU's enlargement and rapprochement processes. This is, of course, something that we, as individual Member States, are working very actively on. As Sotiris Delis knows, we are one of the very few countries in the world to make country reports. We are making 135 country reports in which we look very carefully at the situation regarding democracy, human rights and the principles of the rule of law. This is important. I would like to thank Mr Sotiris for addressing the situation of the Greek minority in Albania. This is basically a question of human rights. Sweden has extensive support for the work to strengthen respect for these. Among other things, we have this through our bilateral support for reform. Then we interact with a wide range of actors in Albanian society who are just pushing those questions. We support, through our cooperation with the organisation Civil Rights Defenders, the efforts to ensure respect for human rights. As I mentioned earlier, the situation in Himarë is also a broader issue about the deficiencies in the protection of property rights and unresolved disputes on land issues. It's about the country as a whole. Through the national urban development programme, the government of Albania has invested in the development and improvement of various cities in the country, including in Himarë, where the majority are Greek-speaking. One consequence of this initiative has been the demolition of 9 000 buildings in the country. Despite the fact that building owners have received compensation for this, the compensation has been low. Sweden has, in talks with Prime Minister Rama, emphasised ownership issues and the need for dialogue with the groups in Himarë. This is particularly true in the case of a minority and the low remuneration of building owners is a problem. We have also spoken with Albania in the process of integration with the European Union. The EU has reminded Albania of the need to complete a property registration process and has called on it to review the Property Rights Strategy. This applies to 2012 – 2020. In addition, the EU stresses in the contacts it constantly has better institutional cooperation, transparency and clarity also in implementing policies that affect property rights. This is often very central. It can very often start there. If people feel that they are not even able to protect their property or their right to land, it becomes very problematic. In addition to the EU, there are other forums such as the Council of Europe. It is through the breadth of forums and contacts that we want to continue to ensure respect for human rights in Albania.
i-5540bde40978b484-28	Mr President, I would like to I thank the Foreign Minister for his detailed reply and look forward to following the further work.
i-5540bde40978b484-29	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the debate, which is important. I hope that we can therefore continue it.
i-5540bde40978b484-30	Mr President, I would like to Caroline Szyber has asked me the following four questions as a follow-up to my answer to her question 2017/ 18:93 on Taiwan's political role in the UN context. She's asked. Just as I replied to Caroline Szyber on 18 October, Sweden also continues to support Taiwan's participation in international organisations when such participation is meaningful and does not require state status. Sweden, like the other EU countries, has recognised the People's Republic of China and is following the so-called 'one China' policy. This means that we do not see any possibility of recognising Taiwan as a state. Membership of the UN is open to states. As only 20 countries in the world recognise Taiwan as a state, it is not possible for Taiwan to be voted in as a member. In addition, countries are included as members of the United Nations on a proposal from the UN Security Council. As China has a veto right in the Security Council, there is no prospect of Taiwan being included as a full UN member. Taiwan has long applied for permanent observership in ICAO, but this has not been possible. ICAO work shall focus on, inter alia, aviation safety, aviation security and the environment. Taiwan has significant aviation interests, and to the extent that its authorities can appropriately participate in and assimilate ICAO's work, this is supported by Sweden. As Taiwan is not a UN member, it is not possible to join the World Health Organisation by letter of formal notice to the Secretary-General of the United Nations. From 2009 onwards, Taiwan was able to participate as an observer in the WHO's highest decision-making body, the World Health Assembly (WHA). The participation was valuable, and I would welcome a development that allowed observation in the WHO for Taiwan. However, this requires consensus within the World Health Organisation, and it does not exist today. The government continues to support Taiwan's active participation in the WHO's health technology work. It is regulated in formal processes but also through participation in various expert meetings in different areas.
i-5540bde40978b484-36	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. In addition to the written question to which you refer, an interpellation debate would have taken place two weeks ago, but then I would have lost my vote. I had to pull back the interpellation and put it forward again. It is good that we can have the debate today instead. It was almost a little talking that I lost my voice and was innumerable, because Taiwan is probably experiencing its situation on the world stage. They want to contribute, take responsibility and influence. They want to be a positive force. But they have little support, too little support. It also shows how wrong parts of the UN system are when one country has such clear veto rights and one country can so clearly decide over another. That was never the idea. Let me reinforce it by giving a small historical perspective. Due to the complex historical link that Taiwan has with the People's Republic of China, any attempt to resume in the international community the UN has been denied as a result of China's right of veto. But Taiwan was one of the founders of the UN and was a member of the UN Security Council until 1971 when President Nixon and President Mao agreed to resume China in the UN and exclude Taiwan. I would like to say a little about the situation today. China's influence was recalled in the spring of 2017 when Taiwan was denied observer status WHA, the World Health Association, which is the decision-making body of the World Health Organisation, better known as WHO. Taiwan had participated in WHA for eight years before then and contributed to a better world health based on its resources and commitment. The risk of political isolation is that it can have dangerous consequences in conditions in which there should actually be an exchange, as in the case of the historical epidemic SARS and should we have similar epidemics. Taiwan has an important role to play as a democratic role model for the Chinese-speaking world – including through its background but also through the cultural values of Taiwan. There will be a bridge between China and the West that we should not neglect. With the support of the international community, Taiwan will be a major player and defender of democratic values. Taiwan now has full academic relations with more than 20 states. There are 23 countries that have recognised the country, including the Vatican State and major countries such as Paraguay. Countries such as the United States have highly developed unofficial diplomatic relations with Taiwan. Taiwan also has its own unofficial diplomatic contacts in a number of countries, often known as the Taipei Mission, which is located here in Sweden. It has a clear foreign policy, its own national defence, and all political and economic issues and agreements are negotiated with the democratically elected government of the capital Taipei. On this basis and on the basis of Taiwan's financial position, Taiwan is a major player in both trade and diplomacy. Unfortunately, the answer to both the written question of 18 October and this interpellation does not really open the way for any change in the situation. I regret that the Foreign Minister dismisses Taiwan's role in getting states to recognise it as a state. If we are to compare with other countries such as Palestine, I think that the government there has a completely different tone and openness about its potential for involvement in international organisations.
i-5540bde40978b484-43	Mr President, I would like to First of all, we share the same view of the right of veto in the UN Security Council. That is something we are working to try to change in the long term. It's very unfortunate when it comes to expressions like this. As I said in my reply, we are in favour of as broad and comprehensive a participation as possible in international cooperation. We also have a self-interest that international cooperation on aviation safety works and that cooperation on important health issues is as inclusive as it is at all possible. As I said, we continue to support Taiwan's meaningful participation in expert bodies. But the core is about the relationship between China and Taiwan; we are not getting away from that. Surely there is none of the EU countries that are heading in any other direction right now, and we are trying to keep this policy together in the European circle. It is no coincidence that only about 20 countries have recognised Taiwan. However, we believe that Taiwan can make a positive contribution to international cooperation both in the area of health and in the area of health technology cooperation. There is a need for various forms, memoranda of understanding and other things, and Taiwan will continue to participate. During a period between 2008 and 2016, China and Taiwan had relatively good connections. It was expressed that Taiwan was then invited to attend the World Health Assembly as an observer. It was something that the EU welcomed in 2009. Sweden would certainly welcome a situation that allowed Taiwan to participate once again as an observer. It is important that specialist bodies and board meetings should also be allowed to devote their meetings to issues of substance and not to political conflicts. The experts representing Sweden and other countries are there to speak for us and to listen and learn on issues where both they and the principals are specialists. All EU countries today have diplomatic relations with China, and we are all following the so-called 'one China' policy. Since the change of government in Taiwan last year, tensions between China and Taiwan have increased, and that is unfortunate in many different ways. This is also reflected in cooperation in the various areas of activity.
i-5540bde40978b484-48	Mr President, I would like to This is not an interpellation about the UN, but both in the Minister's response and in what I am talking about, it feels like a lot is landing in the need for a reformed and effective UN. The UN is a unique and important organisation, like no one else. It brings together states to work for peace and security. Nevertheless, the UN is an organisation with major problems. Sweden is a member of the UN, along with a multifaceted range of countries with different views on democracy, international law and human rights. In many ways, some countries differ from our country. All too often today, the right of veto is used by one of the five permanent Member States of the Security Council to politicise already infected issues and to pursue their own agenda instead of, as was intended when the Security Council was constructed, being used to stop dangerous proposals. The Minister for Foreign Affairs is clear – and I am in favour of this – that we need to think more about issues of substance than using these forums for already politically infected issues and political conflict issues. I can only hope that the Foreign Minister will take some of the contributions from this House with regard to both how the UN needs to develop and the dangers of allowing individual countries to dictate so clearly over others and using peace and security agencies for political markings of a completely different kind.
i-5540bde40978b484-52	Mr President, I would like to Thank you for the debate and for raising the question, Caroline Szyber! Sweden has an interest in supporting Taiwan – one of the world's largest economies with over 23 million inhabitants – in a meaningful way. Taiwan will be allowed to participate in international cooperation as long as it does not require state status, and Sweden will continue to work for as inclusive cooperation as possible. We will continue to work in the Security Council and in the UN for reforms which in any case restrict the use of vetoes. It is important that we conduct the discussion on how to develop international cooperation; there we have a strong consensus. China has changed its position on Taiwan's participation in international cooperation. We can only regret that. This was the last case, for example, of the Kimberley process, which is about diamonds. Taiwan is a huge importer and player in diamonds. It is unfortunate for all of us when it takes this kind of expression, and that is what we can discuss in our bilateral contacts too.
i-5540bde40978b484-55	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the opportunity to have some clarifications today! I take with me that Sweden will support participation in a meaningful and active way when it is possible and perhaps also look at memoranda of understanding to a greater extent. I am pleased with the clarifications that have come during today's interpellation debate. Thank you for that!
i-5540bde40978b484-57	Mr President, I would like to Taiwan is a well-developed democracy with democratic rights such as free elections, freedom of expression and a good human rights situation. It deserves to be pointed out. Taiwan is in many ways a good society to live in. Sweden has well-developed trade relations with Taiwan, and we meet every year at state secretarial level. As I said, we will continue to support Taiwan's meaningful participation in the international context. We want to ensure broad cooperation in a wide range of areas, particularly in the field of public health and aviation safety. We want to move forward on the issues of substance, and we will continue to work for that. Thank you for the debate.
i-5540bde40978b484-59	Mr President, I would like to Pål Jonson has asked me whether I intend to reconsider my attitude towards Swedish NATO membership given that the security situation in Sweden's immediate neighbourhood has deteriorated and whether it is my view that the Finnish Government's position on possible membership of NATO contributes to stability and security in northern Europe. Pål Jonson has also asked me whether it is my view that the United States and NATO have unduly criticised Sweden for voting in favour of the UN Convention on the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons and what measures I am taking in the light of that assessment. I choose to respond to the interpellations in a context. In times of turmoil, predictability and clarity are of paramount importance. Sweden's security policy line is solid. We are not making a sharp move on foreign, defence or security policy. The government is dealing with the deteriorating situation in the neighbourhood on a broad front through political and diplomatic work bilaterally and multilaterally in the EU, the UN, the OSSE and the Council of Europe. In parallel, Sweden's national defence is strengthened, and our international defence cooperation is deepened. We must also continue to act preventively and defend a broad view of security where democracy, respect for the principles of the rule of law and human rights are central. In the context of our work within the EU, new important steps are also being taken to strengthen the Common Security and Defence Policy, which both enables Europe to take greater responsibility for its own security and contributes to the cohesion of the European Union. The freedom of military alliance serves us well and is a prerequisite for stability in our part of Europe. Together with strengthened national military capabilities and enhanced cooperation, Sweden is an actor that contributes to peace and security in our neighbourhood. In relation to NATO, Sweden, like Finland, has chosen a line of cooperation and not a line of membership. It is a collaboration that gives us the opportunity to develop the Swedish Armed Forces both for the national defence and for the ability to participate in international crisis management operations. Our partnership with NATO is continuing to develop. In 2014, Sweden received the status of Enhanced Opportunities Partner, which provides the opportunity for enhanced cooperation with NATO, particularly in terms of political dialogue, training and training cooperation and information exchange. We welcome NATO's decision in mid-November to extend Sweden's status as an Enhanced Opportunities Partner for another three years. Each country has the right to determine its foreign and security policy line independently. This applies to Finland, and it applies to Sweden. Sweden and Finland have a similar security policy starting point for a long time. Our countries cooperate closely on foreign, security and defence policy issues, including in the framework of our respective partnerships with NATO. This cooperation has become particularly important given the deteriorating security policy situation in our neighbourhood. It is an excellent working cooperation and a stabilising factor in our neighbourhood. Sweden's commitment to the multilateral negotiation of a nuclear ban was an expression of our established policy of disarmament and non-proliferation. The basis for this is the recognition of the terrible destructive power of nuclear weapons and the increased risks posed by a deteriorating security policy situation. Ultimately, it is a question of forcing the nuclear weapons states to live up to the disarmament commitments they have entered into. At the same time, we have every reason to keep a straight dialogue with our foreign and security policy partners, including the US and NATO, so that misunderstandings can be avoided and intentions clarified. Sweden has set up an investigation into the consequences of Swedish access to the Nuclear Ban Convention. The mission is broadly defined. The investigator has to deal with a number of very complex issues. They include Swedish disarmament and non-proliferation policies, the Convention's relationship with other relevant conventions and agreements, Sweden's combined bi- and multilateral security and defence cooperation, the possible need for adaptations of Swedish law and guidelines that the Convention gives rise to, and the possibilities for withdrawal from the Convention. Everything of relevance should be highlighted. In accordance with the Directive, the investigator shall consult the relevant authorities, research and civil society and other stakeholders in Sweden but also abroad.
i-5540bde40978b484-69	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for the answer to my interpellation! Of course, I appreciate the Minister for Foreign Affairs' insights into Finland, the United States, the freedom of military alliance, the ban on nuclear weapons, and so on. However, I would have liked the Foreign Minister to have given me an indication on the issue in my interpellation, namely: have the US and NATO wrongly, wrongly or blamefully criticised Sweden for voting in favour of the UN Convention on a Nuclear Ban this summer? I would like an indication of whether the answer is yes or no to that question. The reason why I am asking this question is certainly known to the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It's that in an interview in the New York Times that was published last Saturday, I am now translating freely, and the Foreign Minister is happy to correct me: unfortunately, NATO and the United States have expressed themselves very clearly. They should not have, and we will not accept being influenced by anyone on this issue. I think the expression used by the Minister for Foreign Affairs was: I assume that the intention of the statement was quite correct in my translation, which I hope the Foreign Minister will forgive. However, I do not share the opinion and interpretation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs in this regard. The signals I have received from the United States are that the United States has made an effort not to criticise Sweden, but they have felt the need to inform Sweden that if we enter into this convention it will have serious consequences for our bilateral military cooperation because this convention is legally binding. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs said in his reply, Sweden has worked hard in recent years to deepen cooperation with NATO and with the United States. This has been done in broad political agreement, I would say. The reason why we have endeavoured to deepen cooperation with NATO and the US is, of course, that the security situation in our own neighbourhood has so greatly deteriorated by Russia's aggression against Ukraine and the aggressive Russian exercise pattern that we see in the immediate region. It is therefore Sweden rather than the USA and NATO that have sought and worked for this deepening. In view of this, I think it is good if both the US and NATO inform Sweden whether they will find it difficult to cooperate with us if we take up this nuclear ban convention. I wonder if the Foreign Minister still shares the view that it is good that we are getting signals, because she says in her response to my interpellation that she would like to have a straight dialogue with our foreign and security policy partners, including the US and NATO, so that misunderstandings and intentions can be clarified. The very concept of dialogue means, of course, that we have the right to criticise, for example, the nuclear possession of the United States, but it is also reasonable for the United States to send us signals if they find it difficult to cooperate with us militarily if we enter into this convention. A dialogue involves both listening and taking in reflections. I am therefore repeating my question in order to clarify this. Is the Minister of Foreign Affairs sticking to his statement in the New York Times last Saturday that she is very critical of NATO and the United States for criticising us? If so, will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take any action in this regard?
i-5540bde40978b484-75	Mr President, I would like to This is a very important issue. The background to the Convention is a strong popular opinion and a political recognition that what was previously a deterrent doctrine of nuclear proliferation is no longer working. North Korea is acquiring nuclear weapons, and discussions are taking place in neighbouring countries in that area about also acquiring nuclear weapons. We have seen more of the modernisation of nuclear weapons recently, and not only that, but if we were to use it as a deterrent, a few hundred would have been enough and there are 15 000 nuclear weapons today. They are modernising their nuclear weapons holdings and they are beginning to threaten to use them in full seriousness. We know more about the humanitarian consequences, and we know more about the risks of possible mistakes or miscalculations or misunderstandings. That is why we have also worked actively to raise the threshold, because the level of preparedness needs to be properly reviewed. This convention is due to the fact that more than 120 countries in the world actually believe that the norm against nuclear weapons needs to be strengthened. It was an expression of the frustration felt after the nuclear countries have not contributed very actively to the recent negotiations. There is a new opportunity for them to show that they are serious about the Non-Proliferation Treaty to be negotiated in 2020. It is important that we continue to put pressure on them. It is important to understand that the intention has been for this to work as a norm and to be a very clear expression of what the world thinks about nuclear proliferation as we see it. It is, of course, up to each country to decide whether to participate in these negotiations and whether eventually to sign and ratify. Then other countries should be careful how to deal with such a situation. Neither you nor I are naive about the role of NATO. Of course, they put quite a lot of pressure on their own members, who were not allowed to be involved in the negotiations however they might have liked. One example is the Netherlands, which was ultimately forced to vote 'no'. I believe that this is interesting when it comes to the role of NATO, and I stand by the fact that I believe that there should be talks between countries. It should not be done by tweeting or making bombastic statements in the media. I stand by them to refrain from it. And they should respect that we make our own choices, especially as we are militaryly non-aligned. We believe that it is perfectly possible to do both and – to both mark, as we are starting from today, that we should be able to have a clear policy on our approach to nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons use and proliferation and to be able to be involved in cooperation. Nuclear weapons will not be dismantled from one day to the next, but it will take time. That is why such a convention and the cooperation that we have must also be a practical tool. Then a country should not go public with strong statements in the media or on Twitter, but we should have the right to discuss, review very carefully and make decisions on just like an independent country.
i-5540bde40978b484-82	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister for Foreign Affairs, for your answer. There are many aspects to be addressed here. The Secretary of State says you want a practical tool. Is there anything that one could criticise this convention for, it is precisely that it is not so much of a practical tool. The Foreign Minister knows very well that there are no verification mechanisms to ensure that such an agreement is complied with. It undermines its legitimacy and effectiveness, and I find this deeply regrettable. I also know that the government has expressed concern about this, and I do not see this convention as a practical tool. The discussion about the Netherlands is interesting, but the truth was that it was Parliament in the Netherlands that forced the government to participate, and then when it took part, it chose to vote no. One can have views on where the pressure came from – from NATO or whether it was internal political pressure. I would just like to add that the Netherlands ultimately voted 'no'. There are, of course, major problems with this convention. This is particularly true of how it relates to the cornerstone of disarmament cooperation, namely the Non-Proliferation Treaty. The countries holding nuclear weapons have said that this ban both complicates and weakens the NPT process. It is serious in itself if they do that interpretation. As far as we are concerned, it is unclear whether it is possible to withdraw from the agreement. There is a passage about it, but it is not well stipulated. The only thing we know for sure is that it would be completely impossible for us to withdraw in the event of Sweden going to war. As I have mentioned in the past, it also hampers our bilateral cooperation with the United States and NATO. Now the government wants to investigate this. You can do that. But we already know what interpretation – that is what is important – our partners have done, namely that it will make our cooperation more difficult. You can investigate the question as much as you want. I don't have a problem doing it. However, we should be aware that we have already received those signals from our partners. Access to the Convention would also weaken our freedom of action in security policy. And that would clearly make Swedish accession to NATO impossible. The reason for this is very simple. Both I and the Foreign Minister know what is in NATO's strategic concept. In line with the Non-Proliferation Treaty, NATO is also striving for a world without nuclear weapons. The number of nuclear weapons within the Alliance has fallen by almost 90% since the end of the Cold War. However, the line taken by NATO is that as long as other countries or actors hold nuclear weapons, NATO will have the capability for nuclear deterrence. I don't think that's an unreasonable position. I know that I and the Secretary of State are different there. But we also know that the threat from nuclear weapons has unfortunately increased in Europe, not mainly because of NATO, but mainly because of Russian action. Russia is practicing nuclear weapons in a way that we have not experienced in a long time. Russia also comes with covert threats. I personally have no problem with the fact that there is no unilateral disarmament in the nuclear field within NATO. Disarmament must take place with all the nuclear states concerned. Let me also briefly go into the second interpellation. It applies to Sweden and Finland's different interpretations of having a NATO option. Finland has for a few years chosen to introduce a NATO option into its security policy line. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has strongly refused to discuss a Swedish NATO membership at all. Because the security policy situation has deteriorated, I wonder why Sweden and Finland differ so much in this respect.
i-5540bde40978b484-93	Mr President, I would like to Sweden has for decades a proud tradition of working against nuclear weapons and for disarmament. I think it is clear that if the Moderates were to decide, they would allow NATO and NATO membership to silence this debate at home. I believe that we cannot be silent, at a time when the goal of a nuclear-free world is more urgent than ever. There is a great frustration among non-nuclear states about the lack of progress in disarmament. I want Sweden to continue to be a strong voice for nuclear disarmament and to be prepared to test all the ways that can bring us closer to that goal. We have the same view that all nuclear countries must be involved in a discussion on how to move this issue forward. The 2020 NPT conference will be a test of whether there is a will and how the opportunity to demonstrate a will will be used. Engagement in the Nuclear Ban Treaty is a natural part of our policy of engagement. It is precisely for the reasons listed by Pål Jonson that we are doing this review. We need to examine every detail and every paragraph of the Convention to see what it will mean, how it will be interpreted and how we can work with other countries to pass on the issue. Is that possible in relation to our own legislation? If so, will we decide to sign and ratify? And how is that supposed to happen? These are the very questions to be highlighted. It goes without saying that neither NATO nor other countries should try to exert pressure on us or threaten us. We have always interpreted it as being able to maintain our strong and clear position on the concept of nuclear weapons, nuclear proliferation and nuclear use. We can combine it with working with NATO, the United States and other countries that have nuclear weapons. One must be able to do both – strengthen the norm, ensure that there are processes that can move the issue forward and continue our cooperation. That's how we interpreted it. We entered into the discussions on the Convention on precisely that basis, and we still have it. Our wish, of course, is that we should be able to find a way forward that involves both a strong norm against nuclear weapons and that we should be able to continue our cooperation, because they are important. But we don't think it should be a restraint. The Moderates have not been present anywhere in this debate. There is no clear commitment. I am afraid that you are clearly folding down, despite the fact that we have previously had a fairly large consensus in Sweden. You want Sweden to become a member of NATO, and you think it will solve all our problems. We don't think so. We believe that Sweden must continue with our security policy line, which means that we engage in cooperation, strengthen our own defence and retain the military freedom of alliance.
i-5540bde40978b484-100	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for this interpellation debate. There are many other things you can do to work against nuclear weapons, besides signing a nuclear ban convention. The Secretary of State knows that, too. Our concern has been that the agreement may, for example, weaken the NPT regime, as Finland, for example, has also expressed. That's why they don't sign. So the best would be the enemy of the good. That is one aspect. The Minister for Foreign Affairs tells us that we can continue our cooperation with the United States and NATO without restriction. I would like to remind you that it usually takes two to tango. It does not matter what interpretation we make of this; unless our partners are willing to continue cooperation, because of the legal limitations contained in the agreement, it is a problem for us – whether we like it or not. We can investigate the matter. But we have received the clear signals from the United States and NATO. I strongly oppose the Foreign Minister's line that no one else should say anything to us on these issues. At the same time, she wants a dialogue with our important security partners. Do they not have an obligation to inform us if they cannot cooperate with us if we enter into this agreement? It must still be at the heart of the matter. If they do that interpretation, it also limits Sweden's ability to cooperate with them. I am opposed to the Minister for Foreign Affairs telling us a little bit that it is we who decide that question. No, it is the United States and NATO that decide whether they can cooperate with us or not.
i-5540bde40978b484-106	Mr President, I would like to No, Pål Jonson. I do not think that NATO or anyone else should decide that issue. It is Sweden and finally the Swedish Parliament that will decide whether or not to accede to a convention. In a collaboration, you talk to each other, don't you? It is not tweeted about it or trying to influence us by bombastic statements, when we have just said that we intend to review all the details of the Convention. It's not a way to cooperate. That's what I reacted to. I said, let's do this work. Furthermore, we already have broad cooperation, not least with the United States. We are discussing disarmament and non-proliferation issues, and we are discussing how to make progress in, for example, the NPT review. We are also working together on methodology development to verify nuclear disarmament. We are discussing a number of other issues. That's the cooperation we're talking about these things, too. We do not go outside and give the impression of wanting to put pressure on or threaten us with cooperation. We'll talk about it directly to each other. That's my view of this. It is important that we can continue working within several tracks to reach the goal of a nuclear-free world. I had hoped that this was also the view of the Moderates.
i-5540bde40978b484-110	Mr President, I would like to Mr Wallmark has asked the Prime Minister a number of questions about the Security Council. The interpellation has been handed over to me. Mr Wallmark wonders whether the Council has worked as intended since its creation and whether it has had the intended effect. The answer to these questions is yes. The Government's Security Policy Council has met since the end of 2014 to regularly get a common picture of issues related to the security policy situation and to discuss issues related to Sweden's security in a broad sense. This applies not only to military threats but also to issues such as climate change, terrorism and health threats. Strategic security issues are more interlinked and mutually active than in the past. This – combined with a worrying development in our environment – has clearly demonstrated the importance of such a forum. The security policy situation is changing rapidly, both regionally and globally. The need to address these issues in a coordinated manner is clear. In the autumn, the Council's work has therefore been expanded. The Security Policy Council will meet more often than before and expand its work. This year and next year, when Sweden is a member of the UN Security Council, matters of greater importance on the Security Council's agenda will also be presented to the Security Policy Council. Mr Wallmark also wonders whether it is possible to point to operational benefits with the Council. The Security Policy Council is not a preparatory or decision-making body. It is a forum for information and discussion. Issues discussed in the Council are further prepared, if necessary, by the departments responsible. However, discussions in the Council have laid the foundations for a more coordinated approach to both challenges and threats linked to Sweden's security. Creating the conditions for this is an important task for the government. On a more concrete level, the Security Policy Council has discussed the formulation of the national security strategy. In the follow-up to the strategy, the Council has received presentations on various topics such as military threats, terrorism and information and cyber security. Finally, Mr Wallmark wonders why there is no documentation linked to the work of the Security Policy Council. There are no protocols or similar at the Security Policy Council meetings. The Constitutional Committee has previously examined this approach and had no comments on the scheme. From the autumn of 2017, the agenda and a staff note will be recorded, which will show, among other things, who took part in the meeting.
i-5540bde40978b484-119	Mr President, I would like to I have to say that Morgan Johansson's answer is anaestheticly correct, and it is a good attempt to avoid a number of key issues. That's why I thought I would repeat some of them here and hope Morgan Johansson will answer my questions. First of all, this interpellation is not addressed to Morgan Johansson. It's addressed to the Prime Minister. A number of years ago, in an interpellation debate with me, the Prime Minister himself confirmed that he is leading the work of the Security Policy Council, to which a number of other ministers can be called the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Defence. Then my question is: why is it Morgan Johansson who answers the interpellation and not the Prime Minister? Mr President, I would like to It is characteristic of Sweden's current Prime Minister that when things get hot, difficult and complicated – as during the entire summer's handling of the safety accident within the Swedish Transport Agency – it is very difficult to get close contact with the country's head of government on these important and important issues. Secondly, Morgan Johansson answers yes to the question of whether the Security Council has had the intended effect. The problem for us in opposition that has to review, follow up and critically see what the government is doing is that we cannot follow that work. It is impossible for anyone other than the participants in the Security Policy Council to know whether Morgan Johansson's response – his distinct yes – is correct or not. It is a complete lack of transparency and transparency. Thirdly, the answer contains something new. Morgan Johansson says that from autumn 2017 it has started to register the agenda and a staff note. The very interesting question can then be asked: this Council has been in existence for three years, how is it that this autumn 2017 comes up with the idea that it is time to register the agenda and the official record? According to previous information, the Council meets approximately once a month. Mr President, I would like to I have a theory. I think that it started to register because media pressure increased significantly on the so-called Security Policy Council through the security failure revealed in the summer of 2017 around the Swedish Transport Agency. This led to a focus on and questions if the Security Policy Council had been used. Would it have had a function? Has the Security Council in the first place considered and reasoned on the security breach that plagued Sweden at the time? Fourthly, have questions about the Transport Agency and the safety accident been the subject of discussion in the Security Policy Council? Morgan Johansson lists a number of questions in his answer, but I would like to ask the specific question: has the security breach been discussed specifically? If he answers no to that question, Mr President, it is very strange that there is a Security Policy Council that has not discussed at all perhaps the biggest security breach we have had to deal with during this government's period.
i-5540bde40978b484-126	Mr President, I would like to I now understood the question as being broader, namely that one questions the very need for a Security Policy Council. My view is that when you have an international situation that is characterised by increasing uncertainty and concern, then the Security Council is a valuable forum. The terrorist threat is always like a dark undertone. There are serious terrorist attacks every two months that affect Europe. The security policy situation in Europe has worsened with Russia's aggression and aggressive behaviour in Ukraine with the violation of international law annexation of Crimea. We receive ongoing reports of cyber attacks attempted by foreign power and private networks. There is an ongoing war in the Middle East with large migratory flows as a result. The development of the Korean Peninsula has led to increased tensions. The development of climate issues will drive further extensive migration. It was just a sample of all the phenomena that have a direct or indirect impact on security policy and therefore spanning a white field. Three years ago, when the government took office, the Prime Minister decided to set up a Security Policy Council composed of himself and the Minister for Foreign Affairs, the Minister for the Interior, the Minister for Defence, the Deputy Prime Minister and the respective State Secretary. That's what the circuit looks like. The Council is to discuss these events on an ongoing basis and at the highest level. That was very wise. There is a great need to keep each other informed and updated about the developments around the world and what measures are being taken. I myself have participated in the Security Policy Council since the formation of a government in July, and I can assure you that these meetings are of great value. The meetings are also conducted in totally secure forms so that we know that we can speak relatively freely when we meet. Hans Wallmark criticizes the forms of work. After all, the KU has examined them and had no comments. He also asks the question: Why is there now a record keeping? Because during the summer, among other things, we had never had meetings. It is clear, then, that we must ensure that we are more open about the work we have done. So far – and here Hans Wallmark receives another innovation – the Council has met 28 times over these three years. This year the Council met on 20 January, 3 March, 23 March, 20 April, 23 May, 23 August, 6 September, 25 September, 26 October and 20 November, and that is very often the case. Examples of issues that have been discussed include the military threats, terrorist threats, organised crime, information and cyber security, threats to energy supply, climate change and certain regional issues linked to things happening in the world around us, in Russia, Turkey, Syria and North Korea. So the Security Policy Council has met relatively frequently and has simply had extensive and important discussions at the highest level on how to meet this. The question should not be why Stefan Löfven has set up a Security Policy Council. Rather, the question should be asked why previous governments did not have such a thing, because it is important to keep up-to-date and informed at the highest level – the ministers dealing with these issues – about what is happening and to discuss what is to be done. As I said, this has been and is a valuable forum in the government that discusses these important issues.
i-5540bde40978b484-136	Mr President, I would like to I must commend the Government for the fact that he was also correct in his second speech. It is another good example of how he avoids the central issues. Nowhere in my interpellation was there questioning the Security Council as such. What I have asked questions about is whether the Government is satisfied with the Security Policy Council after it has been set up and how it has worked. I have also asked questions relating to transparency. Basically, I think it is a good thing that a Security Policy Council exists. I hope that the alliance government that follows the current Red-Green Government will also work on a Security Policy Council, perhaps characterised by greater transparency. Mr President, I would like to Morgan Johansson listed a number of issues that directly and indirectly affect Swedish security and have been dealt with by the Security Policy Council. I have no other opinion: that is wise and good. If we were to discuss for a while, I might add something, but as a test map, this is quite excellent. What is, however, a problem, Mr President, is that journalists, reporters, digging people, private citizens and elected representatives have also asked to get out various documents and other information about the Security Council, but it has been impossible to disturb. I believe that I have received from the Council of State Committee an action linked to the Security Policy Council. Now the Government is almost a bit amusing that they have met 28 times, and he lists the exact dates. This is information that we have tried to get out in the past. It is now delivered by the Government in the Parliament's pulpit, and it is beautiful. But this has not been characterised by openness and transparency in the past. I would like to come back to some of the questions I raised at the outset. The Government of Morgan Johansson confirms that the Prime Minister is Chairman of the Security Policy Council. When I put a number of questions to the government about the functioning of the Council, whether it has worked and how it is viewed, I think it would be reasonable for the President of the Security Policy Council to answer the questions. Morgan Johansson has still not told us why he is being forced to carry out this mission on behalf of the Prime Minister. I had one more question. Despite the dates and all the topics listed by the Government, it is still impossible for me to assess whether the Security Policy Council has come to correct, good and sensible conclusions. To a large extent you can also pikant enough link these events – that you start opening with registration and so on – to summer 2017. What happened in the summer of 2017? Well, in the middle of the government's arms, the security breach exploded with the Transport Agency. This is something that has so far required the resignation of two ministers, as well as the resignation of a State Secretary and the dismissal of a Director-General. It is notable that Morgan Johansson in his reply is completely renons and does not mention whether the Transport Agency and the safety accident have been the subject of discussion within the Security Policy Council. He is in spite of the list of many dates that is fully in line with the fact that the Transport Agency and the safety accident should have been the subject of quite a lot of reflection and reflection on the part of the government.
i-5540bde40978b484-146	Mr President, I would like to To begin with, I think it is very good news that a possible alliance government would continue in the same form as we are now. The question that should be asked, as I said, is not why Stefan Löfven has a Security Policy Council but why previous governments have not had it. If Reinfeldt had had a Security Policy Council, military service might never have been abolished, to give an example. Another example is that data storage might not have been sucked year after year – so long that we even had to pay a fine to the EU. This is, of course, a very important issue in the fight against terrorism. Hans Wallmark gives a good answer when he says that this is a good way of working. As far as the forms of work are concerned, we have had no reason to have more inconclusiveness than one needs to have. That is why I am presenting all these dates and the themes that have been discussed. We have now also begun to record the Minutes, which have, moreover, been requested by a moderate Member yesterday or today. However, you cannot always tell what you have been talking about. This is something that journalists, reporters and indeed Members of this House must respect. We cannot be completely open about everything we talk about in these contexts. It is partly a question of qualified secret information, which cannot be disclosed because it is ultimately a matter of national security. I am happy to take this debate on behalf of the Prime Minister. I am responsible for civil defence and crisis management in the Government Office. This is an important part of my work with the Security Policy Council and is not something that I am forced to do at all. The information I am providing here today is of such a nature that one might gain more understanding of how the Security Policy Council has worked. It is true, as Mr Wallmark says, that what has happened within the Swedish Transport Agency has had major consequences, not least when it comes to the resignation of a Director-General and the reorganisation of the government. But it has had more consequences than that. The government has just handed over a new security bill to the Riksdag. We tighten up information security, including with a proposal to ensure that all outsourcing of security-sensitive information to be done by the authorities must first pass through either the Swedish Armed Forces or Säpo through consultation. If Säpo or the Swedish Armed Forces say no and you cannot do it in a certain way because it endangers national security, that is what applies. In that case, the authorities will obey. We are therefore preparing such a change to the regulation at the moment. We have also asked a special investigator, Stefan Strömberg, to look at the limits that should exist when, for example, it comes to outsourcing. Some things can't be left out or privatized and traded. We have to keep them to ourselves in very safe forms. We need to move away from the somewhat trivial privatization agenda that has existed for a number of years. Instead, we must have more of the principle that safety goes first. This is our policy. As regards how the Transport Agency has been handled in the Security Policy Council or in the Government Office, this is examined by the Constitutional Committee. The KU will provide answers to these questions in its review, rather than me doing this. This task falls to them.
i-5540bde40978b484-155	Mr President, I would like to Let me first come up with a revelation. Morgan Johansson refers to the fact that a moderate Member has requested documents indicated in the reply he has given. The moderate Member is me. Morgan Johansson also makes skilful attempts to avoid the central issue. I have not questioned the Security Council. Until then, the President, who refuses to answer, has asked a number of questions about the functionality and whether the whole thing has been evaluated. I am pleased that Morgan Johansson is happy to answer the questions, but I would have liked to see the President of the Security Policy Council also taking responsibility for answering questions such as these. When there is an alliance government, I think there is reason to review the whole crisis management function, including the Security Policy Council, how it has worked and how to increase efficiency. If it is then to be exactly the same form or name of the Security Policy Council, consider. However, the tedious and mundane management of the Swedish Transport Agency's safety failure indicates that an alliance government needs to rethink the issues and structures so that it does not repeat the same mistakes that this government has made. It's very good, what Morgan Johansson lists – tightening up, developing new legislation and things like that. What is interesting is that, in that case, it has not been the subject of discussion in the Security Policy Council. In that case, I think that's bad. It is funny that so many different subjects can be discussed, but one subject that has obviously not been the subject of the Security Policy Council's reasoning has been the Transport Agency and the safety accident. The government, including the Prime Minister, makes many references to the fact that we cannot talk about this because there is a KU review going on. I would just like to remind all of us, Mr President, that a KU review is not an embargo to tell us how it is or to answer questions. The KU review is the constitutional tool that we have here in Parliament, and I look forward to the presentation that comes in the spring.
i-5540bde40978b484-160	Mr President, I would like to I mentioned, of course, that information and cyber security have been the subject of discussion in the Security Policy Council. Among other things, it has been about the reforms I am talking about that we are in the process of doing – the amendment of the regulation that tightens and gives authorities a consultation obligation in relation to the Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces regarding security-sensitive information that may be outsourced and also veto rights for the Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces if they see that no, this cannot be done. It is such a change that is now being implemented. The Security Act that we are now on the way forward with, Stefan Strömberg's investigations of sanctions regarding, among other things, the Swedish Security Act – all of this and many other things in terms of information security have, of course, been discussed. Again, in one breath, Mr Wallmark questions the work of the Security Council. In the next breath he says that a possible alliance government will probably also have to work in similar forms. Well, that's a good thing. I think it is an important and good message. I can only say that the meetings that I have attended since July have been valuable, because they mean that at the highest level and under conditions that allow us to speak freely also about qualified secret matters, we can get information from our authorities on this straight up to the highest level. This means a much better way of working than before. In the past they have worked with forms of work where they have eventually ended up in a whisper game, i.e. that one tells the other what has happened, the other tells the third and so on. This is a much better and more effective way of working.
i-5540bde40978b484-164	Mr President, I would like to Mikael Oscarsson has asked me if I believe there is reason to create a Swedish cybersecurity authority. There is a great need to develop information and cyber security in society, not least in the public administration. Since the government took office, therefore, a number of measures have been taken. Among other things, mandatory cyber-incident reporting for state authorities has been introduced, and the Council of Law referral A modern and strengthened protection for Sweden's security – new security law has been decided. MSB has been provided with increased resources to strengthen work on information security and psychological defence. In the 2017 spring change budget, the Government contributed SEK 10 million. In the 2018 budget bill, the government quadruples and permanentizes the increase in funds based on an agreement between the government, the Moderates and the Center Party. Several measures have been taken to reduce in both the short and long term the risks associated with outsourcing of security-sensitive activities, such as the investigation of certain security issues, which will propose measures to prevent security-sensitive information and activities from being exposed to risks associated with, inter alia, outsourcing. The mission also includes proposing a system of sanctions in the Security Act. The assignment shall be presented by 1 May 2018. After the summer of 2017, the Government stated that in the case of state authorities, it cannot wait for the proposals but that control over government agencies' outsourcing needs to be strengthened already now. Therefore, the proposal for consultation with and veto rights for the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces has been developed. The proposal has been referred and a majority of the consultation bodies are in favour of the proposal. The proposal is now being prepared in the Government Office. In June, in order to create a common direction for development efforts and improve the conditions for interaction between stakeholders, the Government presented a national strategy for society's information and cyber security. Through the strategy's objectives, the Government clarifies, among other things, the importance of state authorities being aware of threats and risks, taking responsibility for their information security and conducting systematic information security work. It also stresses the importance of strengthening cooperation and information sharing in the field of information and cyber security. Here is also the answer to the question of whether there is a reason to create a Swedish cybersecurity authority. In order to strengthen our ability to protect ourselves against cyber attacks and other serious cyber incidents, we must first and foremost become better at working together, each on the basis of his or her mission. It is not possible to create a new authority with a mandate so extensive that it does not have to interact with other authorities. It is also not possible to create a new authority that can assume the responsibility of each operator and individual to take appropriate security measures based on risk-based and systematic information security work. Information security cannot be regarded as a separate activity; it is part of – and a prerequisite for – almost everything else in today's society. Against this background, I do not see any reason to create a Swedish cybersecurity authority, but I will continue to closely monitor efforts to strengthen society's information and cyber security and, if necessary, take further action.
i-5540bde40978b484-172	Mr President, I would like to Thank you. That's clear news. The Minister of Justice doesn't want a cybersecurity authority... not yet. Instead, progress should be closely monitored, and further action should perhaps be taken in the future. But, Morgan Johansson, the future is already here. The future is reminded in the form of a series of cyber attacks against Sweden's IT infrastructure. You could say that they stand like rods on the slopes. In my interpellation, I mention the 673 police reports of computer virus blackmail. I mention the cancer treatments at the University Hospital that were stopped because of cyber-attack blackmail. I mention that SVT has revealed that the Swedish Press, Radio and Television Authority is paying tax money to blackmailers. In recent years, 81 government agencies and 187 municipalities have been affected by blackmail viruses, and this continues to increase. That is why I took the initiative in the Committee on Defence – FRA, Must and Säpo were with us and confirmed that this is something that is increasing and that the attacks are getting worse. They are individuals, groups and countries. The Minister knows that it has been said that there are 10 000 cyber-attacks of foreign power per month and that it is increasing. Nevertheless, the attacks we have seen so far have been relatively gentle. However, if no collective grip is taken on the cybersecurity issue, according to several assessors, Sweden will probably be exposed to a major cyber attack within the space of 1,000 days. What, then, do we want to avoid by taking this measure? Let me mention a few things that we can count on. Public transport can be stopped for a whole day by blocking, ticketing or signaling systems being attacked by kidnapping viruses. 中 Payments with bank cards in stores can be impossible for a few days through attacks on the payment infrastructure. The supply of electricity to households and industries can be temporarily disrupted. It is something that has hit Ukraine in December two years in a row. Because of cyber attacks, health care cannot be carried out. In the event of war, foreign power can, through attacks, gain access to information flowing in Sweden's IT and communication systems, which greatly impairs Sweden's prospects of defending itself. The future, Minister of Justice, is already here. If we do nothing now, there will certainly be a major cyber attack on this country in the not too distant future. Then we will probably have a new discussion like this, but unfortunately it may be too late. Then the damage could be much greater. Our proposal, which we have tried to push on from the Christian Democrats for several years, is to take a holistic approach to the cybersecurity issue for the civil side of society by creating a cybersecurity authority. Today, information and cyber security is governed in a fragmented and fragmented way, putting the interests of the various security authorities ahead of cyber security. The result is that companies, municipalities, state authorities, county councils and other organisations are being hit by ever-increasing regulation in this area. This regulation almost always focuses on a perspective at a time. It may be data protection for personal data, operational security, security and so on, but regulation follows the same pattern and requires almost the same thing. This is what we would get around with an authority.
i-5540bde40978b484-187	Mr President, I would like to What we are now doing in this whole area is a substantial tightening up of security work, including cyber security. Last summer we developed a new strategy on cyber and information security, and with that a large number of missions went out to authorities to implement the strategy. At the same time, we are now making a huge investment in civil defence for the coming years: 1.3 billion in 2018 – 2020. It includes information and cyber security as an important element. There is a deal between the government, the Moderates and the Center within the framework of the great defense agreement to free up that much money, over SEK 430 million a year in the coming years, to restore civil defence, where this particular part is central to a modern society. The tightening up is actually also an effect of the events at the Swedish Transport Agency. We had earlier a discussion on this very subject. It asked the question of what lessons we learn from the events at the Swedish Transport Agency. Yes, such a lesson is that we must ensure that it never happens again and that we must be much more vigilant about our information systems – what we ourselves have and what we outsourcing to another party. For many years we had a routine privatisation in this area, not least under the previous government, which did not think much in terms of safety on these issues. Now it is over; now it is safety first. Regarding the limits of outsourcing, Stefan Strömberg has the task of investigating what can be allowed in the form of procurement and outsourcing in these respects. We are putting forward a new security law; the Council of Law referral has just been decided. We will also investigate sanctions for those who violate the Security Act. We don't now. We will implement the so-called NIS Directive, an EU directive that involves a general tightening up, not only for the public but also for the private sector, and increased demands for information security. But we also strengthen the role of the Swedish Security Service and the Swedish Armed Forces in this context. In matters such as national security and procurement, both Säpo and the Swedish Armed Forces now have a much stronger role to play. Authorities planning to post such information to other actors must first consult with Säpo or the Swedish Armed Forces. If they say stop and believe that it cannot be done because national security is compromised, that is also the case; then, as an individual authority, you should obey and stop. So it's a veto. Mikael Oscarsson asks about supervision and what government structure we should have. My view is that a new authority would bring no added value in this regard. Mikael Oscarsson told us that they had FRA, Must and Säpo in the committee to talk about these issues. An interesting question to ask Mikael Oscarsson is: Did he ask FRA, Must and Säpo if they wanted a new cybersecurity authority? If so, what did they say? In all the discussions we have with the authorities concerned, it is clear that they are very keen to maintain the principle of responsibility, that is, that every authority in each sector has its responsibility. Because it is where the skills are, and it is ultimately they who will be allowed to do the job, regardless of what other authorities we have.
i-5540bde40978b484-197	Mr President, I would like to There seems to be some misunderstanding at the Minister of Justice about the idea of a cybersecurity agency. Let me begin by overcoming these misunderstandings. The Minister of Justice says that it is not possible to create a new authority with a mandate so extensive that it does not have to interact with other authorities. It's the first misunderstanding. Of course, a cybersecurity authority should not have any kind of sovereign mandate that prevents interaction with other authorities. The Minister of Justice further states in his reply that it is not possible to create a new authority that can assume the responsibilities of each operator. It's misunderstanding number two. Of course, a cybersecurity authority shall not assume any responsibility whatsoever from the operator. Instead, the Authority should work to ensure that more coherent and consistent regulation and supervision meets the operator so that resources can be spent on good cyber security rather than on endless analysis and interpretation of regulations. Finally, the Minister of Justice says in his reply – and here I have the last objection – that information security cannot be regarded as a separate activity; it is part of – and a prerequisite for – almost anything else in today's society. This is the third and last misunderstanding. Information and cyber security must permeate everything; it is self-evident. It's not a separate operation. What the cybersecurity authority is supposed to do is precisely this: ensure that security can truly permeate everything in a cost-effective and efficient way. It is not a question of centralising the responsibilities of each operator for its own safety. Today, companies, municipalities, government agencies, county councils and all organisations are meeting with ever-increasing regulation. This regulation almost always focuses on a perspective at a time. It can be data protection for personal data, operational security, security protection and so on, but regulation almost always follows the same pattern and requires almost the same thing. Firstly, Mr President, important information or systems should be identified. Secondly, risk analysis shall be carried out. Thirdly, technical and administrative security measures are to be put in place. Finally, incidents should be reported. For a telecommunications operator, for example, a single IT system can be subject to a handful of different detailed regulations linked to cyber security. Instead of being able to manage the system's safety coherently, the operator is forced in practice to have separate drain pipes – it feels familiar – in response to the detailed regulation. The operator is forced into five different risk analyses for the IT system instead of one. Different internal solutions are needed to try to meet all these fragmented legal requirements. Whole organisations may be built within municipalities, state authorities and county councils to handle the various safety requirements. One example is the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a new regulation that primarily concerns the cybersecurity area and has given rise to new organisations, new analyses and new ways to manage cyber security internally. Why does it look like this, Attorney General? Well, the reason is that Sweden lacks a coherent grip on its cyber security. The situation is urgent. While the organizations I listed are paralysed by all the analysis required by the government, attackers are preparing the next attack. What is needed is a cybersecurity authority that gets a cohesion responsibility for cyber security in Sweden.
i-5540bde40978b484-206	Mr President, I would like to I noted that Mikael Oscarsson did not answer my question: when he now had the FRA, Must and Säpo in the committee to talk about this, did he ask if they think it would be good to have a new authority of his own that would only deal with cybersecurity? Did he ask that question, and if so, what answer did he receive? I'd like to know. I believe that the answer, namely that our expert authorities on these issues – the Security Service and also the MSB and the FRA – are very close to what we call the principle of responsibility, that is, that each authority itself must ensure that it tightens up its systems and can get help and support with it. When we adopted the national strategy for society's information and cyber security last June, we went out with a series of missions to various authorities to ensure implementation of the strategy. These included assignments to MSB and to the monitoring authorities to increase knowledge about information security, but also targeted assignments to identify and analyse what needs to be done in the area of health care in collaboration with SKL, the Swedish National Health Agency and the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare. A special assignment was also about making sure to work better with the private – public collaborations. Asking Mikael Oscarsson for an authority that can give advice, support and help to other authorities in this regard, I would like to reply that we already have such an authority, and it is called MSB. In addition, it has received more money – 10 million this year and another 40 million from next year. But to add another bureaucratic superstructure, which would be some sort of over-hate or overcoat to other authorities in this area without having the full competence of its own, I think would lead away completely out of hand. So we're not gonna do that. Hold on to the principle of responsibility! Make sure that the authorities involved live up to the demands we set! Of course, it can be a lot of analyzing, but this is actually what it is all about. You have to start there. You have to go through your systems and see what risks you're exposed to. If it is about public transport, it is one thing, if it is about health care, it is another, and if it is about industry, it is a third thing. You get to go through your systems properly and see if you live up to the demands of the government. If you don't, you have to tighten up your business. You should get support and help in that work. As I said, we are putting a total of 1.3 billion in the coming years for civil defence. We have plenty of money for this overall. This is one of the main priorities ahead. However, I do not believe that the path that the Christian Democrats are taking is very effective, and that is also the answer we get when we ask our expert authorities how to build up supervisory activities in this area.
i-5540bde40978b484-213	Mr President, I would like to It is clear that the Minister of Justice feels that this is about an overhate, which was the expression he used, and that everything is in order. But I recommend him to look at, for example, the Swedish National Audit Office's review, which was done the other year. It was concluded that it worked very badly and that it is very easy to access information. Anyone who wants us bad can easily get to it. In its recommendation, the Swedish National Audit Office points out that someone should be given a primary responsibility to give the authorities hands-on advice on how to build it up. What we have now tried for nearly 50 years is to govern information security in society in a way that is characterized by the fact that authorities with different special interests in security share governance. The question then is: does the Minister think that this has worked well? Ask a municipality, a state authority or why not a company how this has worked! It's an endless analysis of risks. Cybersecurity, despite the government's good intentions, has become much of a paper tiger – a Swedish paper tiger. Our proposal provides for the creation of a new authority, which will have the overall responsibility for all inspections and which will in the long term be given the right of representation in the field of information and cyber security. Overall, this will lead to a uniform regulation that will be easier to understand and comply with. This will make the tax money and resources spent on security really useful. Finally, it will enable the cybersecurity authority to develop programmes for the proper oversight of the security of our organisations, all of this to secure our digital society. So the question is: Are you willing to look again at these arguments before it is too late?
i-5540bde40978b484-217	Mr President, I would like to The model that Mikael Oscarsson is now setting up – that we should have an authority that exercises all supervision in this area regardless of the sector – means that a huge apparatus will be built up. It's a huge accumulation of skills it's all about. Then, as I see it, one should have the right to prescribe, that is to say, to oblige other authorities to do things. I think such an arrangement would be very ineffective, and no other authorities working on it say that it would be a wise model. That is also why I have now asked several times: when you now met representatives of the FRA, Must and Säpo and discussed this, did you also ask whether a new cybersecurity authority is really needed? I'm pretty sure what the answer from them would have been. Keep to the principle of responsibility, and ensure that the authorities responsible for the sectors also bear supervisory responsibility! After all, they are the ones who have the skills, and ultimately they are the ones who will have to do the job for real. I think this is the wise way forward. We have, of course, read the report from the Swedish National Audit Office. That is the background to the letter on a national cyber strategy and on all the missions that are now going out. It is MSB that is the important authority when it comes to providing advice and support in this context. I do not believe that the model advocated by the Christian Democrats here would be very effective.
i-5540bde40978b484-220	Mr President, I would like to Beatrice Ask has asked me whether I intend to take any action on the basis of the criticism that SKL is making of the municipal action programmes against violent extremism, which is said to have been recorded. She has also asked what measures I intend to take to ensure that, in future, registration of views does not take place in connection with the work of municipalities against violent extremism. It is central that municipalities' work against violent extremism is of high quality. It is important to stress that registration with the authorities must not be done solely on the basis of a citizen's political opinion. The Government has identified the need for continued guidance for municipalities and is taking several measures to strengthen national support. An important measure taken by the government is to establish a national centre against violent extremism at the Crime Prevention Council, Brå, on 1 January 2018. Among other things, the Centre will have the task of promoting greater coordination and efficiency in prevention and providing needs-oriented support to municipalities. Brå has previously had experience in supporting municipalities and other actors in identifying needs and working on the basis of local problems in crime prevention. Broad crime prevention efforts involving the entire local community are important. The Government's crime prevention programme, Together against crime, is aimed at a broad target group, and also in the case of violent extremism, it is important that several actors contribute to the preventive work. The school has a very important role, for example by strengthening students in critical reflection, source criticism and resisting violent messages and conspiracy theories. The Government therefore plans to strengthen the work within the school by commissioning the National School Administration to carry out, within the framework of the national school development programmes, competence development efforts for teachers in order to increase knowledge of how they can deal with extremism and racism and about the responsibility the school has for pupils at risk of, or who are already involved in, violent extremism. The radicalisation or involvement of someone in violent extremism can be a sign that children are harmed or at risk of harm. Authorities are required to report concerns to the social services in cases where such risks exist. On behalf of the government, the National Board of Health and Welfare has also developed support for the work of social services with children and young adults on these issues. It is therefore clear that there are activities within municipalities that play a central role in countering radicalisation and thus preventing terrorism. A prerequisite for the success of preventive work is that these activities interact with other relevant actors. Effective collaboration requires the existence of a regulatory framework enabling information to be exchanged. The Government has therefore instructed a special investigator to review the rules on confidentiality and exchange of information applicable to, among others, the Police Authority and the Social Services in the fight against terrorism. The aim is to ensure that there are conditions for an effective and legally secure exchange of information. With these measures, the government strengthens national support for municipalities in their preventive work against violent extremism. The government will also continue to follow the issue closely and is prepared to take further action if deemed necessary.
i-5540bde40978b484-228	Mr President, I would like to Let me first thank you for the answer to the interpellation. The fight against violent extremism must be pursued in very many areas and at different levels. The background to the interpellation is the report that came from SKL in October. It is the Segerstedt Institute at the University of Gothenburg that, on behalf of the Swedish Municipalities and County Councils, has reviewed the work on municipal action plans against violent extremism. It's not a merry reading. The report shows that although there has been an increase, many municipalities still lack a plan, which is bad. It also shows that the plans that exist have obvious flaws. Out of 127 reviewed action plans, only 23 are based on some local situational picture of the current situation in the municipality. There is a very big difference between Jokkmokk and Malmö, if you think so. I wonder what use it will have in planning for work if it is not based on the local situation. When I read the report, my impression was that in many places it had been cut and pasted from national documents without doing basic work locally and without creating reality, which I think is necessary. That is why I am in favour of a national centre against violent extremism at the Crime Prevention Council, which is set up on 1 January and which the Government mentions. That's where we're in complete agreement. Brå has previous experience in supporting municipalities and other actors in identifying needs and working on the basis of local problems in crime prevention. So it could be good. The report also points to shortcomings in the question of the need for action to be based on science and proven experience. There are some problems here. For example, there is a lack of knowledge about how radicalisation works and what works when trying to correct someone. Nevertheless, I believe that the National Centre, with Brå's experience in research, can help to improve quality. That's good. The second point I have raised concerns the points made in the report which indicate that in some places we are approaching what is political registration of opinions. It is not allowed, according to Swedish law. The Segerstedt Institute says that 15 percent of the action plans that have been reviewed contain wordings that may conflict with the Constitution. Then all the alarm bells ring. I note that the Government and I agree that registration with the authorities must not be done simply because of someone's political opinion, but a general statement is not enough. It is common for the action plans to call on teachers, leisure leaders, social workers and others to contact the local coordinator if they suspect that someone has been radicalised, i.e. some views. Then it should be judged. The information must then be passed on to police authorities. I know, of course, that the confidentiality rules for the exchange of information between the social services and the police are being investigated. That's good. We agreed on that when we reached an agreement on combating terrorism. But I question whether it is enough for the type of work carried out in a school, for example, on the basis of these action plans. The risk is obvious that the action plans are pushing and encouraging schools to map out pupils' opinions, and that leads to completely wrong. Mr President, I would like to Local work against violent extremism is important to protect Sweden and our society from destructive forces. However, the work must be carried out on the basis of constitutions and on the basis of the protection of the individual's rights and freedoms. My question to the Minister of Justice is whether he shares my view that a proper judicial review of the municipal action plans is needed to ensure that no one violates fundamental rights.
i-5540bde40978b484-236	Mr President, I would like to It is a good task for the new centre to provide better legal guidance on how to orient itself on some of these issues, for it is of course not easy to do so. Basically, this is about the fact that over a period of years we have seen a growing problem of radicalisation. It is about Islamic environments, but it is also increasingly about right-wing environments, where we actually see a major concern. We've had cases where children have been taken care of. This applies to children who grow up in a very strong right-wing and violent environment. There are no simple solutions, but the first thing to do is to raise public awareness of what is happening and what we risk if we do not act. Then some municipal activities, school and social services, are crucial. On the part of the state, we must try to do more to strengthen local activities, those on the street plane, so to speak. It is the school and social services that will do the work at the local school and in the local district. You have to be able to confront students and parents when you see a negative development. You have to know what methods to use. In very serious cases, you have to be able to sound the alarm. Then we are talking about groups or families where you eventually see very serious threats and risks. Then there are disposal facilities. In addition, the police should also be connected when this is the type of serious situation. But we need to find the right methods that are in accordance with the Constitution. It's very important. It is an issue that I think the Centre should look at immediately. It is about more legal guidance on this. At the same time, however, it is important to say that the criticism of the registration of opinions that is now being made cannot be used as an argument to withdraw and not dare to take on these issues. We do not want that effect. With better legal guidance, I think you can find a way that is good. As I said, we are setting up the Centre against violent extremism at Brå on 1 January. This is to provide, among other things, support for the municipalities, so that they can be better at dealing with this. I welcome the fact that Beatrice Ask thinks that it has ended up in the right place and that it is the right action to take. Then I agree with the criticism. These action plans must be based on a local problem picture. You can't cut and paste from other places and make it easy for yourself, but you have to look at: What applies to us? In some areas it may be that Islamism is a concern. In other areas it may be about right-wing extremism. It can be completely different in municipalities. You simply have to have the courage to do those analyses. In another place, it may be left-wing extremism, although this factor has fallen in importance in recent years. I also share the view that all this kind of work must be based on fundamental principles of science and proven experience. With the new centre, I believe we will have a better statute in this work.
i-5540bde40978b484-243	Mr President, I would like to We agree on the general approach. I think this centre is good. I think it is good to train staff, as far as there is knowledge, in terms of radicalisation, extreme views and how they can work with it. It is also essential that we develop methods that make it easier to lead people right when they are heading in the wrong direction. There are interesting points in the report that point out that it is not just about children. Local action plans seem to believe that all problems will be solved by the school. That's not really true. There are people who end up wrong, even though they're adults. This is complicated. What concerns me and I understand that the Minister of Justice is also concerned about is that we are getting close to what is the Constitution and what is fundamental rights. There is a risk that local staff in schools, in social services, in leisure centres and in different contexts will be driven to act in such a way that they are easily misplaced. Let us say that it is reported and that someone would be convicted for passing on or writing up information or doing wrong in another way. Then we will get a backlash in the ambition we have to get the municipalities to work more efficiently and intensively with this. That is why I have raised the issue. I think there is a need for proper scrutiny, so that we can give directives and guidelines to local activities on where the borders go and how to do it. It is needed so that we do not have a new REVA debate, which will only be destructive. It is important to sort this out. Then there is another problem. The Minister pointed out the importance of working in schools. Much is being done in this area. That's good. And you write a lot about it in local action plans. However, in the case of the coordinators employed, only one out of over 120 has something to do at school. Most of them are security officers. So one hand does not seem to know what the other is doing. If you want more focus on work and efforts in school, it should perhaps be a different balance. The municipalities will have to deal with this, but I find it troubling. This afternoon I will debate with Gustav Fridolin about the school's activities in this regard. What I want to focus on in my questions to the Minister for Justice is the difficult limit when it comes to seeing young people and others who are getting very extreme views and perhaps are prepared to resort to violence. How can we see and act in such a way that we do not conflict with fundamental rules? That would be devastating for ambition but also in substance. Swedish law applies. Here, the Minister of Justice has an enormous responsibility, which I assume he is taking, and I would like to ask: will there be a discussion about the regulations in the instructions or in talks before this centre is opened, so that teachers, social services employees and others feel that they are firmly grounded in their ambitions and in their work?
i-5540bde40978b484-250	Mr President, I would like to The simple answer to that question is yes. We will, because it is important that we do not go wrong here. At the same time, we all understand that this is a delicate balance. There are some young people who can be radicalized and become dangerous very quickly. In the case of Anton Lundin Pettersson in Trollhättan, it didn't take very long for him to go from being a relatively quiet individual who didn't make so much noise to radicalizing very strongly online and ultimately becoming a murderer. Now I took examples from the far right side, but we have similar examples of the Islamist side as well. It is therefore a matter of trying to discover these individuals on time and knowing when and at which stage to alert the police, for that may be necessary in a particular situation. It is precisely the delicate balance that I think the Centre should look at so that it can give legal guidance to the municipalities that work with this every day in school, in leisure or in social services. With regard to the other criticisms, we have said that all action plans must be based on a local situation picture. It's absolutely crucial. You shouldn't make it easy on yourself. We must ensure that this happens and that the work is based on science and proven experience. I believe, as I said, Mr President, that the new centre will be an essential and important part of the continuing important preventive work.
i-5540bde40978b484-256	Mr President, I would like to The Government is absolutely right: Radicalisation can go extremely fast. It is also the case that the signs that radicalisation has been going on over a long period of time are not always easy to draw conclusions from. I'm currently reading the book of two sisters by Åsne Seierstad. It is about an example from Norway with two teenage girls who are radicalized and travel to Syria to participate in terrorist activities. What you see is that the girls are becoming more and more union-active. They participate in various activities, which we usually think is quite good. The parents think so, and so does the school. One of the girls is becoming more religious, and it's not exactly illegal to be religious. You change your dress style and you want to dress more tight. Eventually, more religious dress is turned. It is also allowed, and of course it is not easy for the school to have views on the students' clothes. One of the girls is very good at school from the beginning. She is very critical, discusses much with teachers not least in religious knowledge and has definite opinions. The teacher says that it's amazing what interested, committed, knowledgeable and learned student! Eventually, she skips quite a lot, and young people sometimes do. All of these things, separately, may seem rather harmless. It is about the whole, and the example shows the difficulties. Should one begin to question that they are becoming active and religious as well? Is there a risk of terrorism here? When you push this forward, it can easily end up wrong, and that is my point: this is so difficult, and that is what the Government says. That is why I think we need to analyse the regulatory framework and think about it. Still, as an adult, you have to intervene in some of these events and ask questions: How have you come to do this? What are you doing at those evening activities? What's this about? Who are you hanging out with?
i-5540bde40978b484-262	Mr President, I would like to I would really just like to thank you for the debate and say that when the new centre starts, we will have a permanent organisation with the skills you think you need to develop the necessary action plans and methods. We are also providing more money, 35 million SEK, for which we resource the Centre, and I believe it will be an important instrument for us to prevent this type of activity. Again, action plans should be tightened up, and they must be based on a local situational picture, science and proven experience. We must also look at the issue in relation to the constitutions. At what stage can action be taken? For example, what kind of information can be provided to the police? It is important from the point of view of our constitution. Just grab it as soon as possible!
i-5540bde40978b484-266	Mr President, I would like to Roger Haddad has asked me, among other things, how to stop what he calls the over-bureaucratisation of the police and what measures to take to get the resources to the local police areas. He has also asked if I and the government are satisfied with the number of police officers in external service and how we should act to reverse developments in investigative activities. The government believes that significantly more police workers, both police and civilian, are needed to strengthen and develop police activities. Therefore, the government has proposed historically large additions of resources to the Police Authority for the next three years. All in all, it is about additions to the Swedish Police Authority of just over SEK 9.8 billion during the period 2017 – 2020. Based on the new financial framework and the needs of the operations, it is the Police Authority that decides how resources are to be allocated internally within the organisation and what measures need to be taken to fulfil the tasks and achieve the objectives of the agency. Good law enforcement in the country requires resources at national, regional and local level. For example, the National Forensic Centre has a major role to play in the political authority's ability to investigate crimes. The investigation unit of the National Operations Department is also an important national resource, which is responsible for both its own criminal investigations and assists the regions in various cases. It is therefore important not to get caught up in a simplified analysis, where national resources are considered to be red tape. According to the Police Office's data, almost 50 per cent of the regions' resources are located at local police area level, which is an improvement since January 2015. The extent to which the current distribution is sufficient in relation to the tasks is a matter for the Police Authority to assess. To some extent, this is also analysed by Statskontoret in its ongoing evaluation mission.
i-5540bde40978b484-271	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister Morgan Johansson, for the answer to my interpellation! This interpellation is set after we have soon passed three years in the new police organisation, whose main purpose was to implement a local police reform that brings the citizens closer and strengthens the local police area at the municipal, local level. When Statskontoret has now delivered its second evaluation report commissioned by the previous alliance government – there was one last year and one now in October – it turns out that on some points it is moving in the right direction. This applies, for example, to citizens' promises, i.e. agreements between the municipality and the Police Authority, and to the establishment of the coordination function of the local police, which is more of a contact between the business community, the municipality and the police. Otherwise, the objectives of strengthening investigative activities are not achieved. Nor is the objective of strengthening the local police area being achieved. This is indicated by other information we receive and are confirmed by information from the Police Federation and the Police Authority but also by the visits we make every two weeks. The local police area loses resources while it gets more tasks, Mr President. You can also see what Statskontoret confirms: that there is an upward movement in the police organization. There is clearly something structural that does not work in the gigantic authority, and that means that police officers in external service go into the police stations. Good skilled employees in the local police area are moving relatively quickly up to the regional level and to the national level. I'm not satisfied with the answers. There is a reason why an interpellation is being submitted. We ask what the government thinks about bureaucracy. We Liberals maintain that over-bureaucratisation is taking place. I know that the government has spoken in the past and even at press conferences commented on the movements upwards in the organisation. Nor have I been given an answer, Madam President, to the questions in my interpellation about the number of police officers in external service. It's very important. The Government's response showed that law enforcement requires resources locally. When it comes to local resources, police officers in external service close to citizens are a very important, central and crucial part of law enforcement work. Nor do we receive so much answers from the government about how to reverse developments in the investigation work. Not a day goes by without looking up a newspaper and reading or hearing the news that police chiefs say that they do not have time to investigate sexual crimes, that rape matters, for example, must be sidelined. This morning I could hear from Ekott that the police do not have time to investigate reported sexual crimes against children over the Internet. The list can be made long. I do not want to exaggerate the situation far too much. These were some examples of what the police authorities themselves point to in the form of shortcomings. I think many questions are unanswered. I hope that the government will respond to them during the debate.
i-5540bde40978b484-279	Madam President, I would like I'm not sure what Roger Haddad's really going after. Does he mean that regional organisations are growing at the expense of local organisations? That's wrong. As I said in my reply, about 50% of regional resources go to local police areas. It's better than 2015. The claim that there would flow people from the local organization up to the regional one does not hold. It's the other way around. It's going in the other direction. Indeed, much of what used to be regional within the framework of the old county authorities is under pressure locally. It's better today than it was in 2015. My second way of interpreting Roger Haddad's question is that he believes that the organisation is growing too much nationally, that it is where one sees some sort of over-bureaucratisation. At that time, I pointed out in my response to important national functions that need to be maintained and that actually need to be improved and resource strengthened even more, including the National Forensic Centre – which it is incredibly important that we invest in. It is crucial to push forward the investigations that Roger Haddad points out in the next breath must be improved. If we do not strengthen the National Forensic Centre, we will not solve the serious crimes of violence in time either. I guess Roger Haddad doesn't want to cut down on the National Forensic Centre just because it's at state level. The same is true of the National Operations Department. It deals with many of the serious crimes of violence, organised crime and terrorist threats. I guess Roger Haddad doesn't want to cut back on that department either, but rather wants to reinforce it. What exactly is the criticism? Does Roger Haddad think that the national part is growing too much? Then he must also answer the question of what he wants to cut back on. Let me say something in general about the investigative activities. We are now through the reorganisation. I dare say that. We can no longer refer to the fact that the police have been reorganizing for two and a half years, that it is therefore messy and that it cannot be delivered. No, that apology doesn't work anymore. We are through the reorganisation, and now the police have to make sure to deliver in relation to what the new organization looks like. In some areas, we have seen improvements in investigative activities. For the first time since 2009, the number of reported cases is increasing from the police to prosecutors. It simply delivers more investigations to the prosecutor for the first time since 2009. It's fraud, vandalism, drug crime and traffic crime. I am not satisfied with this. We need to do much more, not least with regard to some of the serious violent crimes. Roger Haddad pointed out the rape reports, where the police had to do much more to push forward investigations. More rapes are being investigated. I think there is a 10% increase so far this year, but at the same time more are being reported. It is not the police's fault that more are being reported, but we need to keep up with developments. Police are now investigating more serious assaults than last year. In my opinion, we are beginning to see more results from the new organisation than before. It's important. Then, Madam President, there are no shortcuts. There's a need for more employees in police operations. It's gonna be 10,000 more by 2024. More police officers need training, and the police need to be resourced in a different way than before. Therefore, major efforts are now being made on the police.
i-5540bde40978b484-288	Madam President, I would like The government lacks a sense of crisis. You've lost contact with the real-world police department. It is the police who point to fewer and fewer resources seeing than ever at the local police area level. The chief of police in Sala and police chiefs in several other parts of the country claim that there is rebellion. They say they lose cops. How will they interpret the Minister of Justice's contribution to this debate? There are fewer police officers on the outside. The objectives of the reform were more police officers in external service, closer to the citizens. It's just the opposite. Police officers are forced to prioritise even between grosser crimes: sexual crimes, murders and shootings. This is not something we have invented in the Liberal Parliament. It is the police chiefs who say this to us when we meet them every week on our visits. There have been a thousand fewer police officers since a few years ago. A thousand police officers have left during the time of the Attorney General, half of whom are not on retirement. There are fewer police officers under your government than there were under the alliance government, both in 2010 and at the 2014 survey. It is the criminals who benefit from development, and it is the other decent citizens who lose out on the police policy of the Minister of Justice and the government's savings on the police. You did not deliver an extravagant police budget in 2015, 2016 or 2017. It's only now you're trying to patch and fix. This is a consequence of your policy. It is not true that the regional offices would not swell. Yeah, they're swelling up. It's communicators, it's HR personnel, it's HR and Communications at the national level. As far as the National Forensic Centre is concerned, our budget last year had 20 million more than the government. Don't come and tell us about the importance of the National Forensic Centre! There we need competent investigators primarily on the investigator side, but here we are talking about police officers. Why does the government not want to take on board the number of police officers when it comes to intervention activities? I am not even going to mention that figure because it would not be a good signal. However, I am extremely concerned about the defoliation of the number of police officers in external service in relation to the intervention activities. These are figures as of 31 October 2017 that were presented to the Chief Police Officer. The serious thing is, we're impoverishing the police department. That is why we cannot maintain the capacity we want to see in particularly vulnerable areas and for that matter in other areas. In Västmanland, my home country, police officers from Skinnskatteberg, Fagersta, Norberg, Sala and Surahammar are forced into Västerås to strengthen their operations due to the shootings in the past six months. But we also see this development in other counties. It further confirms that the picture provided by the government is incorrect. Mr. Minister of Justice's speech is not in line with reality. What do you think of the over-bureaucratization? Are you happy that there are fewer and fewer police officers on the outside? I want answers today.
i-5540bde40978b484-297	Madam President, I would like No, Roger Haddad, I'm not happy until we get more cops. Now Roger Haddad is talking about the impact he has made in some places. I'm also traveling and meeting a lot of cops. During the 20 years I have been in Parliament, there is no professional group I have talked to more. When I talk to police officers, I often get a more nuanced picture than the total black painting Roger Haddad is doing. I'm saying that Roger Haddad harms rather than benefits the police business when he goes on as he does. Only in recent months have I been in Södertälje, Malmö, Helsingborg, Sollefteå, Kramfors, Angered in Gothenburg with several places and talked to police officers. Among other things, it has been about the police organisation and resource allocation. They say: We need to grow more, we need new tools, such as stronger arms legislation – which the government is now introducing from 1 January 2018 – and we need more resources. Roger Haddad! Don't say we're impoverishing the police when we shoot at $2 billion more next year. It's the biggest investment any government has made on the police for the last 20 years. We have a worrying backlog, particularly with regard to police training. Let me ask Roger Haddad a question: if Roger Haddad wants more policemen, why did you train so few during your reign? You trained 600 to 700 police officers per year, and during a normal year 400 to 500 police officers retire. It shows that you did not understand that today you cannot expect police officers after training to work as police officers for the rest of their lives. Private employers are twitching in police, and as state employers we must compete with these private employers in a completely different way than before. We need to improve working conditions and wages. We also need to train more, and this does not keep training 600 – 700 new police officers year after year when 400 – 500 police officers retire. Now we have changed this. We have doubled the number of police training places so that 1 300 police officers are trained this year. It will be two and a half years before they come out, but no government has ever had more police officers trained than this government does. So don't tell me we're impoverishing police operations, Roger Haddad! We also prepare police training in more locations. Bourgeois governments have never started a new police education. Now we start one in Malmö and one in West Sweden. Madam President, I would like There are no shortcuts. It's about resource-setting the police business, prioritising the police so that the police get the money they need. It's also about every day making sure it doesn't swell in places where it won't swell. Roger Haddad again claims that the regional organisations are swelling, but I have just given figures showing that it looks better in regional operations this year than it did in 2015. Now there's a bigger share at the local police area level, so Roger Haddad won't get away with that. Don't black out the police, Roger Haddad, now that the police more than ever need political support in their backs to solve their task.
i-5540bde40978b484-309	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats are spending less and less on the police percentage of bnp. It doesn't matter if the government allocates 2 billion more next year. The problem has arisen during 2015– 2017. We are spending 10 billion more than you in our draft budget. You've been saving the Swedish police for three years, so the Minister of Justice should be ashamed of himself. The image I convey is Statskontoret's picture, and it waves the Minister of Justice away. It is Statskontoret that states that the actual resources are smaller in the local police areas. It is Statskontoret that comments on the so-called recruitment stop that Anders Ygeman recommended to the Police Authority. But it's basically cancelled. People in the National Department continue to be employed. Don't go in operational, says the Attorney General. Then why did you hold the press conference in January and order the police authorities to put an end to employment? Because you also saw the problem where I am now being accused of blacking out. Your policy is not connected. We cannot have a minister who in January thinks that this is wrong and then have a minister in the same government as in December thinks that it is moving in the right direction. It's not going in the right direction. Resources in the local police area are smaller. There are fewer and fewer police officers at the local level. There are fewer and fewer police officers on the outside. That's who we're talking about. We are not talking about investigators or secretarial staff. We are talking about police officers in this debate. They've become fewer and fewer. It is the criminals who benefit from this policy. It is women and men, girls and boys who do not dare to go out into these residential areas, and it is they who report crimes that do not get help. That is why we have had this debate today.
i-5540bde40978b484-317	Madam President, I would like It's fascinating to hear Roger Haddad say we're spending less and less on the police. It is of course we who allocate 2 billion more, the biggest increase from one year to another, from 2017 to 2018, that any government has implemented regardless of party color in the last 20 years. But Roger Haddad claims completely cavat that we bet less and less. Moreover, the 2 billion is more than the police themselves have requested. They requested 1.6 and received 2. Madam President, I would like There are some things that alliance governments never do. You will never be able to manage public finances, but you will always leave budget deficits behind. You can never do the jobs, but you always leave unemployment behind. You never start any new police training. It was we who started the education in Umeå and Växjö, and it is we who start in Malmö and West Sweden. This year we're bringing in 1 300 police students, 1 304 I actually think it is. I recently attended the ceremony when 133 police officers graduated from Södertörn University, and there is another 295 this year. We will have to stay at least 1 300 and perhaps go up to a few thousand police students per year in the coming years. We will invest a great deal in this activity, and then we will have to go in with the necessary resources. We need a nuanced discussion. You have to be able to see when resources actually end up at the local level and be able to understand that the investigation activities are turning around and that, for the first time since 2009, we see more investigations at the prosecutor than we have seen before. Then perhaps the police authorities are on the right track.
i-5540bde40978b484-324	Madam President, I would like Beatrice Ask has asked me whether, in accordance with Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's statement, an investigation was set up in the Ministry of Justice to review the penalty rebate for young people and how long the investigation period I intend to give the investigation. Young offenders in the 18 to 20 age group have long been given special treatment in both the penalty and the choice of penalties. It is a question of lower penalties and the possibility of imposing special penalties on young people. There are also restrictions on choosing prison sentences for this age group. The view of crime and society's reactions to crime are constantly changing, just as society is. It is clear to the government that action is needed against organised crime and other crime associated with gang formation. The government has already done much to help counter this trend. The penalties for serious weapons offences and serious cases of illicit handling of explosives will be tightened on 1 January 2018. During its term of office, the government has tightened up more than 30 criminal laws related to organised crime. These include provisions on drug offences, gross illegal threats, gross blackmail, legal abuse, gross and extremely serious assault, gross illegal coercion and aggravated robbery. In addition, we have made it easier to confiscate the exchange of criminal activities in criminal offences related to organised crime. We have also made it possible for gang leaders who fail to prevent certain serious crimes committed by gang members to be prosecuted for it. Extensive crime prevention efforts have also been implemented, and the government has also launched a new crime prevention programme. But more is needed. Organised crime in gang environments also occurs among younger offenders. Myndigh ettsagen in Sweden is now 18 years old. In several ways, Swedish legislation draws a limit at the age of 18 between children and adults. We think it is reasonable that offenders in the age group 18 to 20 years should be treated as other legal offenders even when the court is required to impose penalties for crimes. The government will therefore, before the end of the year, set up an investigation to consider and propose amendments to the criminal treatment of offenders in the 18-20 age group. This concerns both the issue of abolishing the youth reduction for this age group and that there should be no discrimination in the choice of penalties. The investigation period will be one year.
i-5540bde40978b484-332	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Government for its answer. For those of you who listen to the debate and who may not have been involved in all the questions, let me remind you that there were two simple questions that I asked. The first is that according to Prime Minister Stefan Lövven's statement has any investigation been set up in the Ministry of Justice to review the penalty rebate for young people? The second question was: In view of the long time that has passed since the Prime Minister's first statement in April, how long will the investigation that is to be given? The Government's response, which we just received, shows that no investigation has been set up, but that before Christmas an investigation will be set up that will have one year of investigation. Madam President, I would like The answer naturally raises concerns about the views of the Government and the Prime Minister on the substance of the matter, as it has taken so long. Stefan Löfven already said in early April that he wanted to review the penalty discount for young people. It's been eight months – eight months when nothing has happened! The day after the Prime Minister was out telling the press this, the Social Democrats in the Committee of Justice also reserved against the committee's position that the penalty rebate should be reviewed. The coordination of the Social Democratic ranks left some other things to be desired, one might think. But there may have been differences of opinion, and then politics can be a real pain in the ass. I understand from the Minister of Justice's reply that he believes that one reason is that the Ministry of Justice has had a lot to do. I have no reason to debate everything else that is being done right now. I know there are many tasks, but that is not news for the Prime Minister either. The Prime Minister, who was out talking about serious organised crime and gangs, was of course well aware of the workload of the department, how much is done and so on. Nevertheless, he wanted to raise the issue of the penalty rebate and try to promote it particularly as a measure that would be important. That there has been a lot is no excuse, because the Prime Minister knew that. As far as the investigation period is concerned, I understand that it is set at one year, because it is a complex issue. With the consultation period, preparation and Parliament's work on a possible proposal, one can therefore expect that a change in the reality of the penalty rebate will appear at some point at the end of 2020, if I have counted correctly. I do not think anyone interpreted the Prime Minister's statement that way. On the contrary, the intention was to show action and something here and now. So we are talking about something that was said in April, and that will start to happen sometime in 2020. It is about the punishment of young people who commit very serious crimes. Today they get a discount compared to if they had been slightly older. In reality, we have acute problems with serious crimes committed by young people. I welcome the measures and I think they are good, but I regret that the penalty rebate has been drawn in the long term. It is important that those between the ages of 18 and 21 are punished for the crimes they commit. Many of those who are eligible for serious sanctions have a long criminal career behind them. My question is: does the Government share my view that the current rules are actually counterproductive? They force younger people to commit crimes for older people, and that cannot be the intention.
i-5540bde40978b484-347	Madam President, I would like Long benched – Beatrice Ask was himself Minister of Justice for eight years. If she felt this was so horribly urgent, why did she not do it during the eight years? Actually, that's a question you can ask. In my three years at the Department of Justice, we've had a lot of work to do. We have delivered 115 bills to Parliament. I am going through a lot of the proposals that we have put forward and that have gone through Parliament's criminal provisions, such as increased penalties for gross illegal threats, gross blackmail, abuse of justice, gross and extremely serious assault, gross illegal coercion, aggravated robbery and the most serious forms of drug crime, to name but a few. We have criminalised terrorist trips – a project where we had to start from the beginning because there was nothing done at all when we took office three years ago. We are about to make a number of major new reforms. What comes next, from January 1st, is gross gun crime. In addition to tightening the sentence for aggravated gun crimes to two years in prison, the offence also provides a presumption of detention and the possibility of secret coercive measures. This will be an effective means of dealing with serious organised crime. Our view is that there is no more important criminal policy task at the moment than to uproot organised crime with its roots. We are prepared to put in place the necessary resources and the tools needed by the police to deal with this. We are also working on another project, which deals with new sanctions for young people, including weekend separation with the help of anklets in certain cases and the commitment to social services. There are also new proposals. The Prime Minister went out with the proposal just before the summer. Even if we had delivered a directive and an investigator the next day, there would still not have been legislation until sometime in the autumn of 2019. Now it may be drawn out by 2020. You might want to see it with those eyes – that terrible amount of time we have not actually lost. As I showed in the answer to Beatrice Ask's question, we are now so finished with the directives that we can actually decide on them. What we're looking for is investigators-- we're down on the name issue, who's supposed to be investigator in this case. This is also not easy given how many investigations we are running at the department. We will set up the investigation before Christmas, in a year's time, and we will have to ensure that this is carried out. I think it is important because at the age of 18 you may have developed such a crime that you are already a hardened criminal. This must be taken up in court judgements, both in terms of the penalty assessment and in terms of the penalties to be imposed. It is also about a more difficult issue to look at, namely how to deal with it in relation to the 15 – 17-year-olds, i.e. how the step should be between the 15 – 17-year-olds on the one hand and the 18 – 20-year-olds on the other. This transition will also be looked at by the investigator. We are working as fast as we can on this issue, as on all issues.
i-5540bde40978b484-358	Madam President, I would like I find it interesting to raise the question why it has taken so long. I'm not so surprised. I know very well what work it is doing, but it is an educational task now that we are moving towards an election year to tell the public that everything that is said at public square meetings and in the press is not necessarily something that is done immediately. One should not play Allan with quick play, which we politicians have easy to do many times. Why did Beatrice Ask not do anything about the youth discount as Minister of Justice? Well, because we didn't have a majority for it. There has been opposition that even lasted until the day after the Prime Minister was out talking. We from the Moderates have been pushing this issue for quite a long time, and it is in fact in recent times that we have received a majority for this. And political work is about achieving a majority and having enough support for an issue to run it. So there is a logical explanation in this particular part that nothing was done. We differed, and you certainly were no helper. I think it is good that the Minister shows many of the measures taken against this problem with young people who commit very serious gang-related crimes. It is an urgent problem that we must work on. Then I would like to say that we have delivered in Parliament as well. We are voting in favour of almost all the proposals – many but not all of them. However, many of the proposals are based on initiatives taken by the previous government. Not much has so far been very controversial, at least not for us Moderates. On the contrary, we are moving in the same direction on this issue. It's a good thing you're delivering a lot. On this particular issue, which must nevertheless be seen as quite central, I am concerned about the serious criminality that very young people are engaged in. I think you need to intervene early and clearly – usually in earlier age than 18 to 21-year-olds. But when it comes to 18-year-olds of age, it is unreasonable that we have it today, that they get a discount because they are 18 years of age and not 22 years of age. This allows older comrades in these gangs to force younger ones to commit crimes because they still get a little lower punishment, as they say. This is unreasonable. This is complicated legally. I've told you that I have respect for the need for a proper investigation period. But this means that it takes a very long time for us here in Parliament to be able to make a decision that can then be implemented. It is important to be clear. But we've got an answer. On the other hand, I did not receive an answer about the mess of views or the amount of discussions in the Government Office. But I have to say that it is fun to have the same opinion as the Prime Minister at times, and I was therefore really happy when he had a press conference this spring. I regret that the Prime Minister did not immediately get the work of the Ministry of Justice up and running, but I look forward to reading the directives, which Morgan Johansson has promised to deliver by Christmas.
i-5540bde40978b484-366	Madam President, I would like To be honest, if Beatrice Ask had made such a proposal in the last period of the alliance years, she would have got it through. I'm pretty sure. She would have obtained a majority for this in this House. But she did not make such a proposal. Perhaps it was because there were different views in the alliance circle that this issue was locked. Differences of opinion are not the reason why it is now that we are finished with the directives, but it has simply been about how we should use the resources at the Ministry of Justice. It is a department that, as Beatrice Ask well knows, works very intensively and has very many major tasks. Sometimes it is actually quite difficult to get room for further investigations. We have now; we have acquired such an economic space. But it is not always easy to make sure it is done. However, there are no differences of opinion on the substance. When we go on these gangs, we have to make sure that we do it in two ways. One is that we make sure that we get the most criminally active individuals off the streets. You just have to do that. This can be done with criminal law, for example, with harsher penalties in the case of weapons offences. You can also do it with more cops. You have to get the most criminally active individuals off the street. The second thing you have to do is break the new recruits to the criminal gangs. These are the two things you have to do, and they are connected. If you do not get the most crime-active individuals out of the street, you will not be able to do the preventive work either, because these individuals will then interfere with all kinds of preventive activities and keep going, for example, the drug sales that are involved, maintain their gang structures and, furthermore, constantly attract new people into the business. They serve as role models, extremely bad role models, for these young people. So we always need this dual approach. When talking to police officers who are on the ground in the areas we are talking about, they almost always say that they need to become more police officers and that they need better tools, such as criminal law, but also more of secret coercive measures for the interception of those who are involved in drug or serious weapons offences. They say one more thing, namely that it is not just about the police, but also about the fact that there is a school that works, a leisure activity that works and a social service that works in the area. This is also essential if recruitment is to be stopped. Police are simply part of a larger strategy to break this type of development. The issue of 18 – 20-year-olds is part of this first strategy, namely to ensure that the most hardened criminals – who you can be when you are 18 – 19 years old – simply have to get away from this environment, so that we can instead work with rehabilitation efforts in the prison service for a long time. Hopefully, after these sanctions, we can release them back into society after a few years. Hopefully, they will have chosen a different course. That's how we have to work. We have no differences of substance. We are starting this job, and we will ensure that new directives are adopted within a few weeks. An investigator will also be present.
i-5540bde40978b484-373	Madam President, I would like I note that an investigation is being conducted. That's good. The Government claims that if the previous government had put forward a proposal regarding the youth discount, it would have been passed through the Riksdag. It is doubtful, given that only last spring the Social Democrats had reservations about the corresponding proposals in committee. So I don't think so. In addition, there were – as Morgan Johansson made fun of – different views within the Alliance. It's not a secret. I think that Morgan Johansson quite often gets to experience that he gets to discuss a little bit with the Green Party in order at all to make progress on one or another issue. Now it was very exciting, so I guess I'll have to raise new questions. I share the view that one important thing is to remove the most criminals who recruit others on the streets. Then I am thinking of the proposal for a zone ban tabled by the Moderates. This has been introduced in Denmark. I think there's more to be done. But the important thing is that the police actually have the resources to arrest people and do things. As I said at the outset, a broad map of measures is required. The Alliance launched in 2007 the mobilisation against serious organised crime, which has evolved over time due to a change in crime. It's a good job being done. But we're always a little behind. Rapid changes in crime are challenging. I believe that this very thing of getting hold of the young people is important. Then the group of 18 to 21-year-olds is important. We will have to wait until 2020 before we have actually removed the penalty rebate. But we will do what we can from the Riksdag to deliver as quickly as possible when the government eventually lands in a proposal.
i-5540bde40978b484-380	Madam President, I would like I do not think we have any differences in substance. I have explained what we have done and also our level of ambition. Then I would like to say that this strategy, that is to ensure that the most crime-active individuals are removed from the street and that they also work with other instruments, is very important. We have concrete examples of this. I think that the effort made by the Alliance Government to mobilize against serious organised crime was a good one, and it is now continuing. Regular reports are made on this work by all the authorities involved. Let me give you a concrete example. In Malmö they gathered after the many shootings. There are now over 80 people in custody. This is because we are pushing these investigations forward and simply making sure that the people involved are put away. There are other things to be done. On Norra Grängesbergsgatan, which has been a haven for all-gender forms of crime for a very long time – black clubs, illegal gambling, illegal settlement, especially of people who do not have a residence permit, of course drug sales, prostitution and much more – they are now cleaning up. The Environmental Protection Administration, the Swedish Environmental Crime Agency, the Swedish Tax Agency and other authorities, together with the police of course, go from address to address to ensure that these property owners and the people who are active there. If you can't take them for one thing, you can probably take them for another thing. It has also been incredibly effective in getting that part in order, so to speak. The joint work of the authorities against serious organised crime is therefore very effective if one really decides to do so. As I said, in this part too, we will deliver. Investigation directives and investigators are under way.
i-5540bde40978b484-387	Madam President, I would like Jesper Skalberg Karlsson has asked me what measures I intend to take to extend the budget review in Parliament to include the opposition's budget movements. Let me first state that the fiscal framework has served Sweden well since it was introduced after the economic crisis of the 1990s. The framework has helped Sweden during this period to move from a vulnerable position to an internationally low level of debt while many other countries have seen the reverse trend in the wake of the financial crisis. Over these 20 years, the fiscal framework has been gradually strengthened, inter alia by the fact that the practice developed has been laid down by law. In order to safeguard the stability and credibility of the framework, it is essential that major changes have a broad political foundation among the parliamentary parties. The need for broad political support was also highlighted by the parliamentary committee which presented a review of the surplus target in 2016. On the basis of the conclusions of the Committee's report, the Government has proposed, and the Riksdag has just decided, inter alia, a change in the level of the surplus target and a new benchmark for the level of consolidated general government gross debt. There is a well-established regime aimed at ensuring a broad political base for changes to the budgetary framework. The question of an extended parliamentary review of the opposition parties' budget movements is of great importance to the Riksdag and its working arrangements. If the Riksdag considers such a change in the framework desirable, it is important that the matter be dealt with in accordance with the established order.
i-5540bde40978b484-392	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. There was a time when the Social Democrats protected financial stability. With Göran Persson as Minister of Finance, the budget adjustment initiated by Anne Wibble was completed, and the Ministry of Finance's special position within the Government Office was restored. With Göran Persson as Prime Minister, Sweden was given a fiscal framework with the aim of making fiscal policy sustainable and transparent in the long term. Some parts of the framework are law, and other parts are practice. In this debate, I would particularly like to mention the general government surplus target, which was introduced in 2007 and means that the surplus over a business cycle should be 1% of GDP. However, that level has changed now. Together with the expenditure ceiling, the surplus target is a strong support for the policy in resisting the pressure to increase expenditure and instead assume long-term responsibility. Together with the inflation target, the surplus target is the clearest objective in Swedish economic policy. The surplus target disciplines Swedish fiscal policy and ensures reform force in times of economic decline. Even when the target is not reached, it is an important indicator. Madam President, I would like However, there are some things to consider about the structure that surrounds the budget process here in the Swedish Parliament. With new complicated parliamentary situations, there is no longer any guarantee that current governments will get through parts of – or even the whole – their proposed budget. We saw it in 2013, when the Social Democrats broke budgetary practice together with the Swedish Democrats. We saw it in 2014, when the Swedish Democrats chose to vote on the Alliance's draft budget. Although I am pleased that we were given a ninth alliance budget, these questions are asking about the future. There is a risk that a continuing difficult parliamentary situation will result in budgets that have not passed the rigidity and welcome scrutiny of the Ministry of Finance receiving support in this House, and that may lead to some unfortunate consequences. In addition to the fact that such a regime can make fiscal policy uncertain and risky, which in itself harms the Swedish economy, this means that less thought-out proposals can become a reality. Here it is important to remember that the Riksdag is not competent enough to write its own legal text in more than a few cases. This competence is largely reserved to the Government Office, although it is the Parliament's Chamber that formally says yes or no. It raises the question whether Parliament should be able to put a budget that has not been examined at the table of the House. Therefore, although there is an established order, I have a follow-up question. The Minister of Finance says that you can look at this, if the Riksdag thinks it should be done, but it would be interesting to know what the government says about the matter. Does the Minister of Finance not see that there may be a need to make the parties' budgets more disciplined, thereby creating a security mechanism in the face of difficult political times?
i-5540bde40978b484-400	Madam President, I would like If you are going in that direction, you should think about how this would be done. Basically, it is the Riksdag that reviews the government, and I think that is a good order. If it were a state authority that carried out the audit, it would be the case that the government is reviewing the Riksdag, and I am not sure that this is the kind of order we want. However, there may be points to having very good and clear budget movements in the Riksdag, and there are all the possibilities for parliamentary parties to lead by example if you think the issue is important. I therefore have a specific question for Jesper Skalberg Karlsson. In the Moderate Budget Movement this autumn, it has not always been clear and transparent what the Moderates are actually proposing. When we look, for example, at the municipalities and the savings they make there – when we see the spending areas in the moderate budget movement – we find that the municipalities save at least 3 billion. If we then look in Appendix E, where the Moderates compile the consequences of their politics for the municipalities, it looks like they think it's going to be plus minus zero. I am not allowed to go along with that, so it is an example of how one could improve budget movements without having any scrutiny. My question is, of course, what is behind saving in the expenditure area motion but not in Appendix E. Should we have an external party, which is not the Minister for Finance, which does this type of review, I think it is important, as I said, to discuss it across party boundaries. I do not think it is appropriate that it is the government or the government authorities that do that review, because basically I think the order that it is the parliament that reviews the government is good.
i-5540bde40978b484-405	Madam President, I would like I thank the Minister for his reply. The Minister of Finance has a point in saying that it is not always very fruitful when opposition and a majority throw different reviews of the other at each other, precisely because nobody is impartial in terms of the other's budget. It is therefore interesting to consider who could then also examine the opposition's budgets. Of course, it is not the government that reviews the Riksdag, but there should be a middle way. I believe that an authority can be more impartial than the Minister for Finance alone in this House. Madam President, I would like We're approaching a rather dirty election movement. In addition to an exceptionally high tone in debates both in this House and on the Internet, there are other major risks. I am thinking of extreme groups who are making persistent attempts to cut off the public conversation. We have a business cycle that is turning around and a housing market that has had a constant upturn but now seems to have reached its peak. We have a large group of newcomers who will soon become part of the unemployment statistics. There are great challenges. There is also reason to believe that many parties will be attracted by short-term political gains that are simply brought home by proposing unfunded political reforms. I do not believe, as the Minister for Finance, that this risk exists with the Moderates – we are saving 10 billion more in our budget bill than the government is doing in its budget. However, I am concerned about the phenomenon of letting the banknote press go hot in an election campaign, and I hope that concerns the Minister for Finance too. Madam President, I would like Sweden is a small, open economy with a fairly large currency. This should be acknowledged and defended by all parliamentary parties. Predictability and stability are the basis of our credibility and competitiveness. I also think the Minister for Finance knows that. But if this is to continue, politics needs to avoid becoming a bar fight. At present, both the government and the largest opposition constellation have said that the government will be sought regardless of the election outcome. Perhaps that is right – the best medicine against populists' progress is perhaps to allow them to convict some governments during the next term of office. Personally, I think the voters would tire of the chaos and the flip-flop between which government the populists support. However, there are no absolute truths about politics today. A lot of people said Brexit would never come true. A lot of people said Donald Trump wasn't going to be president. He was. Many said that it was not possible to change party leaders one year before the election – the Moderates did, and the support increased significantly. Madam President, I would like We're going to have an insecure time. That is what the defence policy in this House said only an hour ago, but to some extent it also applies to the economy. I would like to ask the Minister for Finance: what other proposals could be envisaged to strengthen the stability and predictability of the budgetary process, unless budgetary scrutiny is such a proposal? Is there no other way forward if the government does not want to review the Riksdag, which is perhaps not to be done either? There is a risk that budgets that have not passed the Ministry of Finance will be placed on Parliament's table and receive a majority. Does the Minister of Finance not see that things can be problematic in the long run?
i-5540bde40978b484-416	Madam President, I would like I have no objection to examining the opposition's budgetary movements. However, as I said, I am not sure that this should be done through any authority governed by the government or mainly governed by the government. The rights are already being examined by the free media today, and the free press has, of course, an important role to play here. Then it is also good if the motions are transparent so that it is possible for the free press to examine them. Here I think there is an improvement potential. There is an opportunity to ask the parliamentary investigation service to count on various exercises and their effects, which is also taking place to some extent today. Of course, however, we can discuss whether it should be further examined. I haven't got an answer to my question. I share the view that it is important to have high quality in the budget movements and that they are transparent and transparent so that we really understand what the parties are proposing. That is why my question to Jesper Skalberg Karlsson remains. The accounts of the Moderates regarding the finances of the local government sector appear to be very non-transparent in the budget exercise. The annexes to the expenditure area save 3 billion in municipalities. It is therefore quite a lot of money that the local government sector is missing out on. On the other hand, when the overall impact on the local government sector is reported in Appendix E, it is possible to add minus zero, even though it saves 3 billion. This does not seem so transparent. Now that we are here discussing transparency, Jesper Skalberg Karlsson, in the spirit of transparency, may want to sort this out.
i-5540bde40978b484-422	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank you for the opportunity to have this debate. I think it's important. I think that we will have to come back to it or look at other proposals which, if not vaccinate, will at least prepare our fiscal policy for an uncertain time, as we are meeting. There is cause for concern, both for the government's rather expansive fiscal policy at this point, when we should actually save considerably more, and for the structure and process that surrounds the budget now that there is more turbulence in politics ahead. But you shouldn't just turn on the doomsday drum. Sweden is a fantastic country. It's one of the best countries in the world to live in. Of course we have our challenges. This does not make us very unique – there are many good countries that have many challenges. But we are well placed to meet these challenges, and I am very grateful for that. With this, I thank you for this debate.
i-5540bde40978b484-426	Madam President, I would like I would also like to thank you for the debate. These are interesting questions raised by Jesper Skalberg Karlsson. I'm still waiting to get an answer to my question. I look forward to perhaps having it in a future debate or in some other context. The question remains in the air. I also hope that, in future, the Moderates themselves will show greater ambition in terms of transparency in the budgetary motions they put forward so that it will be clearer and clearer for anyone who examines what proposals they are actually making, not only for the Minister for Finance, but also, of course, for the free media. As long as I have the opportunity to be Minister of Finance, I will continue to work on taking responsibility in government positions and ensuring that we have order in public finances. It's good that we've cleaned up the major deficits that the Moderates left behind when they were sitting in the Ministry of Finance.
i-5540bde40978b484-430	Madam President, I would like Helena Bouveng has asked me what tax changes I intend to make in order to make it pay to train as a nurse in health care. According to the tax policy guidelines adopted by the Riksdag in spring 2015, the tax rules should be general, with broad tax bases. This means that we cannot have specific tax rules for specific occupational groups, as Helena Bouveng herself pointed out in her parliamentary question about marginal taxes for me this spring. When it comes to staffing in health care, it is the county councils that have employer responsibility and therefore also the main responsibility for the supply of skills. However, the government has initiated a series of measures that can contribute to better skills provision. One of these is the so-called professional billion, which means that the government annually allocates SEK 1 billion to strengthen and stimulate county councils' work on skills supply issues. The Government is also investing in the development of training courses in the field of shortage professions in order to meet the needs of the labour market and care, including nurses, specialist nurses and midwives.
i-5540bde40978b484-435	Madam President, I would like Swedish care is of high quality – many testimonies indicate this. But this presupposes that you get into health care, because Sweden now has among Europe's longest care queues. According to the National Board of Health and Welfare's national planning support, the number of specialised nurses in relation to the population has decreased by 20 per cent. Without specialist nurses, there will be no surgery and no intensive care. With too few specialist nurses there are growing queues and overcrowdings. Who will suffer, Madam President? Patients and people will have to wait far too long to get the right care. One reason for this is that continuing education simply does not pay off. The trade union Saco shows that nurses go back on their education compared to people with only upper secondary skills. For specialist nurses, the training pays even worse. The government's professional billion, as mentioned by the Minister for Finance, is intended to make more nurses more able to specialise. This is great, but won't it be a blow in the air if you at the same time turn the specialist nurse into a high wage earner? If the specialisation pays less, what is the point of the initiative today? Today, one in three specialist nurses already pays over 50 kronor in taxes on the last hundred dollars earned. The government gives with one hand and takes with the other. Madam President, I would like If the government really wants to shorten the care queues, should it not pursue a policy that encourages responsibility, training and extra hours worked instead of the other way round? The Minister of Finance claims that increased taxes will finance welfare. But, Minister of Finance, nurses are welfare. In addition, there is plenty of research that says that raising taxes far from automatically increases tax revenues. Perhaps we should not go into the so-called Laffer curve today, but even the Minister of Finance can say nothing but that high taxes in the long term lead to more people choosing to work fewer hours, to fewer choosing to further educate themselves and to fewer choosing to take responsibility. Taxes control behavior – this also applies to nurses. My question to the Minister for Finance will therefore be whether it is not a concern to the Minister for Finance that high marginal taxes on nurses maintain the situation of long-term care queues? What social problems does the government want to solve by special nurses paying over SEK 50 in taxes on the last hundred dollars earned? Are high marginal taxes for health professionals the government's solution to the care queues?
i-5540bde40978b484-445	Madam President, I would like We cannot tax ourselves to good conditions for nurses in Sweden. That is something that I think is obvious to the vast majority. It is clear that the 30 billion in tax cuts that the Moderates want to implement would affect nurses' opportunities for a good working environment, good wage development and paid further education. During this term of office, the government has turned the major deficits in public finances that we inherited from the Moderates into surpluses, while at the same time pursuing a policy for more people to work. We now have order in public finances again, and we also see that more people are working. The resources we want to use to strengthen welfare, not least health care, and ensure that municipalities and county councils have the resources necessary for the staff working there to be able to have good conditions and good wages. Reducing taxes will not, of course, allow county councils to give nurses good pay, good working conditions and paid training.
i-5540bde40978b484-449	Madam President, I would like The Social Democrats have now left the deal of half of the 1990s far behind. The government is happy to put the picture of the high-paid man whose wallet with simplicity holds a larger withdrawal of the state. But that picture, Madam President, is simply misleading. 43% of our police officers, 62% of our miners, 37% of nurses with special skills, about one in three full-time workers has less than half of the last one-hundred. The consequence of having the world's highest marginal taxes is that the number of hours worked among highly qualified people in particular is falling. An opinion poll from Taxpayers shows that many Swedes would rather switch to more holiday days instead of a wage increase. Particularly interesting is that this will increases when you have income at the cut-off point of government income tax. In total, 16 per cent of the survey states that in the last three years' wage negotiations they have tried to obtain any benefit other than an increase in wages, and this proportion increases to nearly three out of ten people in the group with income at the lower breakpoint. Madam President, I would like In a new report by economist Fabian Wallen, he describes how households' income has developed in all countries during the period 2005– 2015. The results show that, on average, tax revenues have increased in those EU countries that have reduced the highest marginal tax rates compared to those that have raised them. The UK and Denmark, which are likely to be comparable countries with Sweden, are particularly interesting. Why, Madam President, is the government pursuing this policy of high marginal taxes affecting people's willingness to work negatively? In fact, high marginal taxes do not add more to school, health care and long-term care. What, then, motivates the government to have the world's highest marginal taxes if we do not get the best welfare in the world?
i-5540bde40978b484-454	Madam President, I would like If it had been the case that the Moderates really believed that they could reduce the marginal tax without having any effect on public finances, they would of course have done so during the eight years in which they reduced the tax by SEK 130 billion. But then they chose not to touch the marginal taxes. This shows that the Moderates do not believe in what Helena Bouveng is fantasizing about in the speaker's chair, namely that it is possible to reduce marginal taxes without having any financial consequences. What we get into the state income tax in Sweden is, of course, something that finances the police's salaries and the grants we give to the county councils, so that they can hire nurses and give them good wage conditions and further education opportunities. Should we remove government income tax or make changes in when to start paying government income tax, we must, of course, cut somewhere. Then there will be less money for the police, less development opportunities for police officers, less money for county councils and thus worse conditions for nurses. If you reduce the tax by 30 billion, as the Moderates want to do, there will of course be worse conditions for those who work in tax-funded activities.
i-5540bde40978b484-457	Madam President, I would like In the run-up to the elections, Stefan Löfven promised that no ordinary wage earners would be taxed more heavily. Three years later, we can see that 37 percent of our midwives are high earners in Sweden of the Social Democrats. We Moderates are clear that we need more simple jobs. But at the same time we need more people who train, work more hours and take responsibility. There is broad support in Sweden for a progressive tax system, where those who earn more pay a little more in tax. However, the fact that broad occupational groups in normal wage levels, such as teachers, miners, police officers and not least nurses, should pay half of a wage increase in taxes is neither reasonable nor morally correct. Our goal is to free as many nurses as possible from paying government taxes. The first step, which can be read in our budget exercise, is that the breakpoint is raised from today's 37 900 to 40 100 crowns. This is particularly important at a time when there is an acute shortage of trained staff in health care and in school. Then it is important not to discourage these groups from working more, because taxes control behavior. For example, we have high taxes on alcohol because we want the consumption of alcohol to go down. We think there's a connection. The opposite should apply to what we want more of. Can we afford broad occupational groups in welfare to choose leisure before work? Where is the morality that the state takes over half of the last hundred dollars for a nurse who has chosen to continue training, work more hours and taken responsibility?
i-5540bde40978b484-462	Madam President, I would like I note once again that the Moderates are in favour of a policy which they did not pursue in the eight years they were in government. I have no objection in principle to raising the cut-off point for state income tax. But it is clear that it must be balanced against what savings you have to make to do so. And in a situation that we have now, when the police pile up rape reports, when parents worry about their children learning enough in school, when women who are pregnant worry about whether they can fit into childbirth, yes, of course, it is not tax cuts that are at the top of the agenda. This would reduce the opportunities for these activities to provide the resources needed for us all to be safe and for children to learn what they need in school. That's why this is my priority. In the budget that we have presented, we are making major investments in the police, in schools and in health care. For us Social Democrats, it is more important than tax cuts.
i-5540bde40978b484-465	Madam President, I would like Anette Åkesson has asked me what measures I intend to take to avoid a repetition of the uncontrolled cost increases of the 1980s and how I see the proposal to report, taking into account the precautionary principle, the dynamic effects of tax increases. When the government took office in 2014, we inherited a public finance deficit of approximately SEK 60 billion. It was the third time out of three possibles that a bourgeois government left large deficits in the state finances. Since it took office, the government has turned the large deficit from 2014 into a significant surplus. Unfunded and unfair tax cuts have been replaced by urgent investments in the sustainable construction of society. The budgetary surplus is not merely a consequence of an improvement in the economic cycle. This is the result of government action leading to a structural improvement in public finances. In addition, while public finances have been strengthened, government policies have contributed to strong economic growth, rapidly rising employment and falling unemployment. As far as estimates of budgetary effects are concerned, I would like to stress that there has been no change in how they are calculated and reported since the last parliamentary term. The budgetary effects shown in the budget are, as in the past, generally static. Past experience shows that care should be taken to include dynamic effects in the budgetary context. We learned this before the budgetary adjustment in the 1990s during the then bourgeois government. The government's forecasts, on the other hand, make an overall assessment of how the government's reforms affect macro-economic development, the income and costs of the local government sector and the public finances.
i-5540bde40978b484-470	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank the Minister for his reply. Not surprisingly, as usual, she tries to blame everything that goes badly on the Moderates and bourgeois governments. I don't think anyone's buying it. This applies, for example, to the mantra that S inherits deficit. The Ministry of Finance and also the Social Democrats themselves stated in 2001 that it was Social Democratic governments that caused the Swedish 90s crisis. Blameing the Moderates for that is both historyless and melancholy. The fact that the Social Democrats and the Green Party call the Alliance's tax cuts unfunded and unfair, I find it difficult to understand, because the government has retained them. Moreover, job tax deductions have been and are aimed at reducing taxes on low and middle-income earners, which may be added to be a direct contrast to the Social Democrats' tax reductions in the 1980s, which were directed directly towards high-income earners. Furthermore, Magdalena Andersson also lowers taxes, so she must also think that it is good politics. That the government's actions would have led to structural improvements is probably only the government itself that thinks. In principle, all expert authorities consider that the boom is being wasted. According to the Swedish Financial Control Agency, the Council of Finance Policy, the Swedish National Audit Office and the Institute of Economic and Monetary Affairs, Magdalena Andersson does not manage public finances in accordance with the fiscal framework. The current surplus target of 1 per cent of GDP over a business cycle is not reached in 2018, and the reduced surplus target of half a per cent is not reached in 2019. In terms of dynamic effects, it was a thin reasoning to just say that the Alliance did the same, which is also wrong. Firstly, it drew great attention to the fact that the Social Democrats removed the accounting of employment effects from their budget proposals. This is remarkable, not least in view of the fact that the government has its main objective linked to unemployment, namely that Sweden should have the EU's lowest unemployment rate. The government can't do that. Yesterday, figures came from Eurostat showing that Sweden is losing out with other EU countries. Contrary to the current government, the Alliance was open and reported all the effects of various measures on employment. The current government has the figures but chooses not to account for them. Other studies show that government measures have a negative impact on employment. Secondly, the argument is irrelevant. The Alliance reduced taxes in contrast to the government. Tax cuts are expected to have positive dynamic effects, something we all agree should not be included. For three years now, the Social Democrats and the Green Party have been governing Sweden. During this time we have had a strong international boom, a large population growth and historically low interest rates. Moreover, the Alliance's reforms have had an impact. These are the factors that explain growth. John Hassler, professor at the Institute of International Economics at Stockholm University, calls the economy doped. So does former Social Democratic Minister Kjell-Kjell-Olof Feldt. Instead of saving for worse times and tackling our serious structural problems in order to tackle seriously the housing problem, the shortcomings of the school and the high unemployment of new arrivals, the government is evicting money. Yet the number of long-term unemployed is increasing. Care queues have doubled in three years, police stop and rape cases are closed. What if something has to be clear indicators that the government is doing wrong? We can now see parallels between the Social Democratic policy of the 1980s and that of the current parliamentary term. It would be in everyone's interest for the Social Democrats not to repeat the same mistakes as then, but to take responsibility for the country. Does the Minister of Finance agree that the Social Democrats now run in many ways as in the 1980s? If yes, how does she intend to change this so that we bourgeois do not have to take care of the economy reduced by the Social Democrats again?
i-5540bde40978b484-478	Madam President, I would like When you look at public finances, you look at both actual savings and structural savings. If you look at structural savings, you try to remove the economic effects on savings. This government has greatly improved structural savings compared to what my predecessor Anders Borg left behind. Apart from the fact that the economic cycle has strengthened public finances, this government has pursued a very conscious policy of strengthening structural savings, so that we once again have order and order in public finances. It is also the case that government policy has led to a reduction in unemployment and improved growth. These are calculations that we have made at the Ministry of Finance, but also the Institute of Economics has looked at the effects of government policy. It has been concluded that investment in education, infrastructure and other things is a more efficient way to quickly boost growth than broad and general tax cuts, which the Moderates worked with in their time. In addition, these tax cuts were borrowed and the entire Swedish people were in debt in order to be able to take these expensive and inefficient measures. Instead, we have changed the policy. It is also estimated that more than half of the reduction in unemployment during the term of office is due to government policy. As far as the dynamic effects and the accounting of the employment consequences per proposal are concerned, my assessment is that those estimates are so uncertain that in practice they are meaningless to use. On the other hand, we are making an overall assessment of the impact of the policy. Anette Åkesson says that this change has attracted a lot of attention. There have certainly been many interpellations written by moderate Members of Parliament to me on this issue, but otherwise I have not seen that this would have attracted much attention.
i-5540bde40978b484-481	Madam President, I would like It is not just us in the opposition who are reacting to the fact that the effects are not accounted for. That they should be insecure may be left to others to judge. But we do not even get the opportunity to assess it, but it is you at the Ministry of Finance and in the government who make that assessment for us, which is not really appropriate in an open democracy. I still have to get back to the '80s. Of course there are differences between the 80s and now. Then we had high and rising inflation, while now we have an independent central bank and are members of the European Union, to name but a few examples. However, the overexpansive policy of prosperity leads to overheating and a cost crisis is well-established economic knowledge. It is therefore worrying that we now have only about 1% savings as a percentage of GDP. In the run-up to the recession in 2008, we had just over 3 per cent. That's why the Alliance had a lot of muscle when the financial crisis came. The Minister of Finance would have to save in the barns. The fiscal framework came about with experience of the 90s crisis to ensure a state-financially sustainable policy. The framework is a support for the government and parliament and is needed because savings otherwise tend to be systematically lower than is desirable, as we now see in the government's budget. The surplus target is defined as 1% of GDP on average over a business cycle. Not saving more in a boom and thus not meeting the surplus target is short-term and risks rolling over costs to future generations. This is unfortunate, because future generations are already facing tough challenges in view of demographic developments, among other things. Moreover, the government's failure to address the major challenges facing Sweden in the short and long term becomes clear when you see the budget. I am a little confused about what analyses the Social Democrats are doing over Sweden and how to get to grips with the problems that exist. The government's rhetoric is often not related to the measures it proposes. Sometimes I wonder if it may be that you yourself believe what you say and then settle for it. Having a goal of the EU's lowest unemployment rate, but then only proposing inefficient employment efforts and raising taxes on jobs and entrepreneurship simply do not go hand in hand. The dynamic effects can be a bonus if they are positive. But not counting on tax increases, for example, having an effect on people's behaviour is short-term. And since the current government is raising taxes considerably, during the term of office with an estimated 60 billion, of which almost 90 percent on jobs and growth, money is being used that requires people to work as if taxes are not being increased. Therefore, there is a risk of being left without funding – but with increased costs. Citing that the Alliance did the same is not relevant, because we are not raising taxes in the way that the Social Democrats are doing. In their budget, the Moderates invest more in strengthening the core tasks of the state, such as defence and police, but also in welfare. At the same time, we are addressing integration problems seriously. We are investing in more jobs with, among other things, additional job tax deductions, entry jobs and reformed new start jobs. The government does not take the chance in this boom to strengthen Sweden. It neglects the possibility of making the cake that is distributed grow and instead devotes itself to distributing the cake. But you are so busy distributing the cake that you do not see that you have forgotten to put in the yeast, so the cake is not as big as you thought. Unfortunately, there are too many similarities between current government policies and those of the Social Democrats in the 1980s and which led to the Swedish 90s crisis. Does the Minister of Finance not see the similarities between the current policy and the one that pushed the 1990s crisis forward in the 1980s?
i-5540bde40978b484-490	Madam President, I would like Anette Åkesson has spent three years in the speaker's chair describing that the Social Democrats' proposal for a tax on jobs and entrepreneurship will have very negative effects. It's been three years now. It is becoming increasingly easier for me to respond to those claims by showing the development that has been going on over the three years. What we see is that Sweden has high growth. This is good growth compared to other countries. It is not just a matter of a generally good international economy that Sweden can slide with. On the contrary, growth is strong in Sweden, much stronger than in other European countries. The Economic Institute has concluded that part of it can be explained by the government's economic policy. In terms of employment, the employment rate has increased. It is also under this government that the employment rate has been measured as the highest in the EU as a whole, in fact the highest that has ever been measured in any EU country. Something right seems to be about government policy. If you are like the Moderates just focused on taxes and believe that the only thing that matters for jobs, entrepreneurship and growth is the level of taxation you have and that reduced taxes is the answer to everything, the equation may be a little too implified. It is also about how to use the tax revenue you receive. Here the government has consistently worked to use tax revenues to strengthen jobs and entrepreneurship in Sweden. It seems to have been quite successful.
i-5540bde40978b484-494	Madam President, I would like We Moderates are grateful that we have avoided a new international financial crisis and that the economy is generally doing well in the world. But before the 2014 elections, Stefan Löfven promised that he would demand a reply from each minister and head of authority before any decision if the decisions involve more jobs or not. This promise has certainly been broken, too, because the government is presenting budgets without the courage to account for the employment effects of the various proposals. Now the number of long-term unemployed continues to increase, despite the boom, and we are losing momentum compared to other EU countries. The government is wasting a boom with budgets that do not meet the surplus target. It hasn't taken any scholars. Since the 1990s crisis, the surplus target has contributed to a fiscally sustainable policy. The government then presents expansive budgets during a boom instead of saving for the future of bad times. The economy goes like the train, just as the Minister of Finance says. But it is thanks to alliance reforms and a low interest rate. This means that the government in many ways repeats the same behaviour that the Social Democrats had in the 1980s and that both they and the Ministry of Finance have noted caused the 90s crisis. In contrast to the international financial crisis that the Alliance handled well, the 90s crisis was a Swedish crisis. The government is deliberately taking risks, and these are risks that will burden those who need the support of society in the future. It is only to be regretted and hope that the Alliance will have the opportunity to sort things out after the 2018 elections. With this, I would like to thank the Minister for Finance for the debate.
i-5540bde40978b484-499	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Anette Åkesson, for the interpellation debate! I do, of course, appreciate the opportunity to stand in the speaker's chair and talk about the government's economic policy, where it is clear what we have done. It is three times that we have had bourgeois governments in Sweden. All three times, those governments have left behind large deficits in public finances. Last time, we were very far from the surplus target when we took over. There was a structural deficit in public finances rather than the surplus that one should have. This was due to the fact that very substantial tax reductions had been borrowed, mostly for those who earn the most. Now, for the third time, we have addressed the major deficits. We have ensured that we pursue a tight and responsible economic policy so that there is order and order in public finances again. This cannot be done by cutting off money on unfunded tax cuts in the way we saw during Moderates' time in the Ministry of Finance. Of course, it is also not possible to develop welfare and take hold of the activities that Anette Åkesson points out are so important – p olis, school, health care and other things – by reducing the tax by 30 billion in the way that the Moderates propose. We will continue to take responsibility for public finances as long as we have that opportunity and ensure that we implement responsible reforms to strengthen growth in Sweden. We save a lot of money in the budget by paying off SEK 40 billion on the public debt. This means that Sweden has the lowest public debt since 1977. This is how you build shelters for worse times, not by cutting money off on unfunded tax cuts in the way the Moderates do when they have the chance of government.
i-5540bde40978b484-503	Madam President, I would like Ida Drougge has asked Minister of Education Gustav Fridolin what measures he intends to take to make it more attractive to be a teacher and what measures he intends to take to increase the number of applicants for teacher training. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. The lack of teachers is a high priority for the government, and the government has since day one worked to strengthen the teaching profession and to get more people to want to become and remain teachers. The number of qualified first-hand applicants for education and training with a focus on pedagogy and teacher training has been 20,000 to 21,000 people in the autumn semesters of recent years. The fact that the Swedish Council for Higher Education's figures for the spring semester 2017 now shows that the number of applicants for pre-school and basic teacher education is decreasing is of course worrying. We need more students who apply for these courses. Happily, the number of applicants has increased in other teacher training courses. The increase for subject teacher education is marginal, but for special education, it is as much as 24 per cent. The government is carrying out an extension of teacher training to meet the great teacher shortage. For example, for basic teacher education, this has meant that approximately 270 more students could be admitted to the courses in autumn 2017 compared to the previous year. That's an increase of 7%. It is also important to reach those who are in the middle of their professional lives and who want to switch to the teaching profession. Here, the government invests in more places in the complementary educational programmes, so-called KPU, and in a special KPU for those who have a doctoral degree. In the 2018 budget proposal, we also allocate special funds to projects that will create more ways into the teaching and pre-school professions. We are also investing in summer courses in teacher education, and the government has recently decided on a new flexible subject teacher training for grades 7 to 9. The lack of teachers must also be met with increased attractiveness in the teaching profession. More people must want to become teachers, but more active teachers also need to stay in school. Here we now see positive figures. Remaining is increasing, and 40 per cent more teachers than in 2014 are now returning to the teaching profession. Through the teacher's salary boost, the government has contributed to an average of over 65 000 teachers receiving about SEK 2 600 more in salary each month. All in all, the government is carrying out many measures to overcome the shortage of teachers, and we will continue to do so.
i-5540bde40978b484-510	Madam President, I would like I would like to thank Ida Drougges for her reply. Sometimes sick children can get in the way even for interpellation debates in the Riksdag. I think we agree that the lack of teachers is one of the biggest challenges we face in the field of education. The Education Committee was recently in Scotland. They spoke of the great lack of teachers they had there. They were missing 500 teachers. That would be about 1,500 in Sweden. I felt like we had some pretty big problems here. What we do at system level may matter. But in the end, what happens in the classroom is the most important thing. We need not only more teachers but also more good teachers. The fact that fewer people now apply for teacher training is quite serious. On behalf of the Alliance and the Moderates, we have several proposals to improve the quality of teacher training, because I think that is an important part. This is not just about the attractiveness of the profession itself, but about the fact that teacher training itself has a high attractiveness and is considered a high quality education. We want to explore the possibilities for more teaching time and tougher admission requirements, the ability to read faster and to have common rules for the KPU. Today, there is a great deal of change between universities, which makes it quite difficult for the individual to understand. Moreover, in some places there is a lack of flexibility in, for example, the lack of any single point on a subject. Another thing that is important for teachers to want to stay and for people to want to become teachers is that they feel that the work environment is good. Unfortunately, we get quite a few reports that this is not the case. The latest is metoo, where there are a lot of accounts of things happening in school both against teachers and against students. We propose to review the legislation to see if more measures are needed and, not least, better training of teachers so that they understand the opportunities they have to create order in school. I find it remarkable that the government's main action is precisely more places in regular teacher training. On the one hand, it takes a long time for us to get some teachers out, and on the other hand the criticism is quite massive against this very thing. When you bring in more teacher students, the score will drop, and there are quite few applicants already as it is. This means that those who come in will have very low average points from high school. The point in itself is not the problem, but the problem is that they are not equipped with the skills they need to complete teacher training. With the compensation system we have today, there is a risk of lowering the requirements for these students to get through the education. I'm a little curious about how the government views the criticism, because it's pretty serious. It is precisely about the fact that more places in teacher education do not lead to more teachers, but it only leads to more drop-outs.
i-5540bde40978b484-519	Madam President, I would like Thank you very much, Maria Stockhaus, for taking this important interpellation debate! The lack of teachers, as I said, is something that we inherited from the Alliance government along with falling learning outcomes in school. It's something we've been working on. We now expect that there will be 52 000 qualified teachers missing until 2019, so it is a major teacher shortage. As Maria Stockhaus says, not everything will be dealt with by training young people as teachers. But it is extremely important that we do so. The flow of teacher training varies greatly, as our supervisory authority UKÄ has shown. In pre-school education we have a higher pass rate than in other professional courses at the university. So there are more people going through it. In primary teacher training it is roughly on average. On the other hand, we have had major challenges with the subject teacher training. There is a discussion that is important to take, because it is a long and demanding teacher training – contrary to what many claim there are no demands. There is a clear connection: If you have low grades from upper secondary school, the risk of defection is significantly higher. We are now engaged in trials dealing with suitability assessment for intake. It has proved to be successful in the universities and colleges that have tried it precisely on the basis of reaching the motivated. You reach those who really want the teaching profession and thus also have the motivation to pass such a long and demanding education as the subject teacher education is. The second child of mourning has been the subject teacher training 7 - 9. There we have now made changes to make it more attractive. From autumn 2018 our higher education institutions and universities will have the opportunity to test it. This means reading fewer subjects; you only need to have two subjects. On the other hand, there is a deeper understanding of these subjects. We also have more flexibility in substance combinations. Swedish as a second language is one of the subjects that one should be able to combine with all other subjects. This is good because we have a great lack of teachers in Swedish as a second language. This is not just what we are doing, just as Maria Stockhaus says. We also do quality enhancements. Pending the major national evaluation of all teacher training to be carried out in 2018, we have contributed SEK 250 million a year to increasing teacher density in teacher training. We also carry out project work to get training schools and to strengthen the practical part of the education together with the theoretical part. There are various examples of how to work with this around our colleges and universities that I advise you to really take part in. This is also something that is contained in the School Commission's proposal on how to improve teacher education. Finally, I would also like to say that we are making sure to increase the research link in teacher education by allocating money to national research schools that will provide more PhDs in teacher education. Raising the status and quality of education is one way. But we also need to do more to make the teaching profession attractive. There, the salary, which is one of the government's largest investments of SEK 3 billion a year, is an important part that has also had a good outcome, according to Statskontoret's report today.
i-5540bde40978b484-528	Madam President, I would like I do not really feel that I am getting an answer to my question about the criticism that UKÄ is making. It may be reasonable to try first to increase the quality before you pour in a lot of more places, which also risks leading to that we do not really get any more teachers in the end. As far as more roads are concerned, it is extremely important that we find new paths to the teaching profession. There is a new way to the profession, which Teach for Sweden stands for. It is an interesting international initiative which I believe the Minister is well aware of. Teach for Sweden has made progress from year to year with grants and expanded its operations. The two external evaluations that have been carried out show that it is a successful programme. It succeeds in attracting people with a high level of competence in their subjects to the teaching profession, who also come into the classroom at once and receive training in the meantime. The only criticism is that it's pretty tough. In the two years that the program lasts, it's tough to have time for everything you're supposed to do. However, this is appreciated in the schools where it is, and the teachers stay at the school when they are done with the programme. I just received a report this week about two teachers who have also entered the school leadership roles. It is amazing, for there is a lack of good ones too. One concern for Teach for Sweden is the funding. They are also looking for private sponsors, but they are still dependent on state aid, and they have still not been told how much money they will receive next year. Now it is 1 December, and according to the information they have received, the money will come sometime after 22 December. Teach for Sweden will now plan its entire operations for next year. We have worked to put more money into it, and to ensure that it is communicated earlier. But where they stand right now, they risk not being able to bring in the 75 they had planned this summer. That's 25 less than what was meant to be. It may seem a little bit, but there are 25 teachers standing in the classroom from day one. I find it remarkable that Teach for Sweden has not been able to find out. I would like to highlight another point that I believe very much in, not least because I believe that the investigator responsible for this has the skills to do something really good out of it. It's about the professional program. There was a lot that the government threw into the School Commission. A lot of the proposals it has made are good. But the ambition was that this should be taken as a whole, which is not the case because we are dealing with ten new investigations. The Profession Programme is something that will raise the status of the teaching profession and provide clear career paths. It will be linked to the First Teacher and Career Services Programme introduced by the Alliance, which has also been a successful reform. We already knew this when the OECD presented its report. I find it extremely difficult to understand that people choose to throw this into the School Commission. Instead, the investigation could have remained and the programme had already been put in place in the past because we knew it was necessary. Instead, we must wait for something that I believe will have a decisive impact on the attractiveness of the teaching profession. I therefore find it difficult to understand why people choose to throw so much into the School Commission and, furthermore, it now turns out that there are very few parts of this that will have any impact at all in schools during this term of office.
i-5540bde40978b484-535	Madam President, I would like I am convinced, Maria Stockhaus, that if you are in such a serious situation as we are with a great shortage of teachers, the way forward is not to reduce the number of places in teacher training. On the other hand, we need to increase throughput. These are the measures that I have presented, but we are, of course, looking at more measures. It must be possible to do several things at the same time if we are to achieve the goal that all children and students can meet a competent and qualified teacher wherever they live in the country. I know that Liberals believe that the number of higher education institutions providing teacher training should be reduced, in addition to reducing the number of places. We also know from the studies we have carried out that where teachers train, they tend to stay and look for jobs because that is where they do their business's part of the education. To avoid teacher training from several places in Sweden I do not think is the way forward. On the contrary, we need to ensure that we train more, but we also need to increase throughput. As I said, I have outlined the measures that we are taking, but we will probably see that we need to do even more. As far as the professional programme is concerned, I share the view that this is one of the important next steps that we need to develop. Here, too, it is extremely important that the profession itself has a major influence on the way in which these professional programmes are designed. The advantage, which I think the Moderates find difficult to see, with the School Commission is that there the school's actors gathered with the research. They compromised and agreed. It provides an incredible long-term perspective and stability that is exactly what the school needs now to continue the positive development that we have had from the knowledge results but also to face the lack of equivalence that we have at school and to continue to strengthen both the teaching profession and the teacher education. I think it feels nice and safe to have this broad agreement that the School Commission means at the bottom and that we are now moving forward with proposals on professional programmes that will enable us to have an even stronger development opportunity for our teachers. It will help to increase attractiveness. When it comes to more ways in, we work, just as I explained in my answer, with the KPU and with Teach for Sweden. I share Maria Stockhaus' view that this is a very successful programme that gives us teachers in so-called flaws but also teachers who can work with strong leadership in those of our schools that have the greatest needs. It really makes a difference. I hope that we will be able to provide information as soon as possible on the continued funding for this and that we will continue to develop teacher training, both short and long, to provide an even better preparation for the profession to be pursued. There I think that the link with training schools and the active part of the training needs to be even stronger. More ways in is also, as I said, the answer to how to face the teacher shortage. Not only are young students to be educated, but we will also enable more people to be able to change to become teachers – we see that the search interest for the KPU is great – and make sure that the teachers we have who are professionals but who lack access in one or more places can complement it. Then we need to work with employers.
i-5540bde40978b484-543	Madam President, I would like We talk about the need for more teachers, and we do that because we have a great shortage of teachers. But we are not valiant to have more teachers who are not competent and do not have enough ground to stand on to be good teachers. When it comes to equivalence, there can be huge differences between the classrooms of a single school depending on the teacher you receive. We must improve the quality of teacher training and ensure that we have teachers who are well prepared. I am also looking forward to this evaluation, but there are quite a few things that we already know that students and those who receive new graduates say are very flawed. The government says the Liberals think we should concentrate teacher training. This is not the idea of the Liberals, it was clear from the OECD when they were here. They were out at the universities offering teacher education and said that in such a small country as Sweden it is not reasonable to have 28 higher education institutions offering teacher education, because it is not possible to maintain the quality of 28 places. They recommended that it be a place. I understand that for regional reasons it is not reasonable, but we need to concentrate education and ensure that we get high quality and find other ways instead of increasing to lots of new places where we know there are doubts about quality. We risk bringing in students who do not have a sufficient level of prior knowledge, and then we risk undermining teacher education even more and the reputation it has. Then we are in a negative spiral instead of the positive spiral that we need to be in. I am still extremely critical of the School Commission. If one had wanted a broad composition there, one would have ensured that the principals were also represented, which was not ensured. Perhaps you would have had an even broader position. The big criticism is that we need more teachers now, but this Commission does not come up with any proposals that will lead to anything at all during this term of office.
i-5540bde40978b484-547	Madam President, I would like Thank you again, Maria Stockhaus, for a very important debate and discussion on how to meet one of the school's biggest challenges, that is, the lack of teachers! I maintain that I am deeply concerned about the announcement that the number of seats on teacher training with a new government will decrease, as will the number of places where we are going to train teachers. I would like the voters to be told which universities are going to lose the right to pursue teacher training and on what grounds if they are not to wait for the major national evaluation before taking these decisions. It will not help us solve the problem of the lack of teachers in either the short or the long term. If we are to do this in the short term, it means more ways in when it comes to allowing more people to switch to become teachers. There are many good examples, but it is also a question of giving professional teachers who are currently not qualified the opportunity and the right to read their qualifications. In the longer term, it goes without saying that we also need to train people in our teacher training. Of course, this training should provide a good basis for becoming a teacher, but also for being able to develop in their professional role – we fully agree on that – and therefore we need good professional programmes and good opportunities. Last but not least, we also need to ensure that teachers are able to be teachers and not various workers. There, the government's priorities of welfare billions instead of tax cuts have meant that we have been able to employ many more so that teachers can focus on what they are trained for, that is, teaching and improving teaching.
i-5540bde40978b484-552	Madam President, I would like Maria Stockhaus has asked me how the municipalities will cope with the consequences she believes that regulation of the benefits of welfare will have. The question is prompted by the Government's announcement that it intends to submit a proposal for a limitation of profits in schools and care to the Riksdag. The Government will take into account the consultation points received and present a proposal that will continue to provide freedom of choice, but at the same time increase the amount of tax revenue intended for welfare. The healthcare sector will not be covered by the proposal but will be further examined. The reason why the government intends to move forward with the proposal is simple: Profit as an incentive does not belong in the welfare sector. The current regulation aims to increase public resources to welfare. I believe that it is reasonable to demand that private actors providing tax-funded welfare services be able to demonstrate that public funds are used in the business and thus benefit children, pupils and users. At the same time as the prize hunt is to be stopped, we will safeguard freedom of choice and diversity in welfare. A common starting point for government work is citizens' expectations that publicly funded welfare services are of good and equivalent quality throughout the country and that the resources allocated will benefit users, regardless of the provider. The government has made it clear that individual actors should be able to remain active in welfare. Those who run serious welfare activities and who regularly reinvest in the business will be able to operate in the future. I therefore disagree with the view that private operators will disappear to the extent that Maria Stockhaus believes. If some owners and operators would choose to leave the sector due to lower profitability, it may, during a transitional phase, entail administrative costs for the municipalities and county councils responsible for ensuring that the activities are carried out. However, a private operator can already go bankrupt, lose its licence or opt out of business. Municipalities should therefore always be prepared to assume their statutory responsibilities to provide services to all citizens if operators disappear. There is no clear correlation between efficiency or quality and the type of operation. Therefore, although some operators choose to leave the sector, there is no reason to assume that in the longer term costs will increase or that the quality of welfare will deteriorate.
i-5540bde40978b484-558	Madam President, I would like Thank you for your answer, Minister. We talk a lot about order in welfare. I think we all want and are interested in it, and we think it is important. There is no party that wants rogue actors who endanger quality for their own economic gain to run neither school nor preschool nor care in any form. Control of independent activities has been strengthened, for example through the School Inspectorate, which is now also reviewing the economy. They have hired a lot of accountants and other things to be able to go through the business's finances and see what the money is used for. The proposal in the investigation is a manslaughter act against independent activities and, not least, the freedom of choice of individuals. About 80 percent are expected to have to close. And if there are no alternatives, freedom of choice is not much to be desired. Stockholm County's municipalities have a very high proportion of independent activities, both in preschool, school and high school, as well as care for the elderly and home care. For example, nearly 22 000 pupils attend independent upper secondary school. In Stockholm County, there is an increasing need for school places, retirement homes and home services. It is actually a tough challenge for Stockholm County to cope with the commitments we have. In addition, if 80% disappear, as they are forced to close – it is not my assessment but PWC's assessment, based on the proposal in the Reepalus investigation – I do not understand how the municipalities will be able to replace them. It's going to be pretty fast. As far as schools are concerned, they must apply again. And if independent operators see that the economic conditions for operating do not exist, many will close at the same time. That will be the big challenge. Madam President, I would like The whole profit limit proposal is wrong. According to the proposal, the profit limit should be calculated as a certain percentage of the operating capital. It is total assets reduced by financial assets, cash and operating liabilities. The problem in the welfare sector is that the great asset is human resources, and it is not included in the balance sheet. This means that the operating margin you can have in these operations is so low, with the proposed profit limit, that it is not possible to run the business further. It is not a question of preventing over-profits or dividends. The smallest businesses are becoming the most vulnerable. Their assets have a small value in the balance sheet and therefore a small basis for calculating the permissible surplus. For example, 90 per cent of independent preschools and 88 per cent of independent schools, according to PWC's assessment, i.e. not mine, would be allowed to operate below 2 per cent. PWC's assessment is that it must have an operating margin of 2 per cent in order to be able to cope with, for example, unforeseen expenses. For example, in a small business it may be a matter of a staff member being on long-term sick leave. It's hard to make it if you can't have a small surplus. It is simply not possible to survive. This also applies to municipalities as principals. You need to have a surplus in your business. There has been a lot of criticism of the proposal and its construction. I wonder if the Government thinks it is a reasonable way to get rogue actors out of welfare.
i-4euockKQWqP8bJGtwfMeKT	Madam President, I would like Thank you, Maria Stockhaus, for the question, the speech and the commitment to welfare issues! I welcome the fact that there are votes in the Swedish Parliament that have a background in municipal everyday life. It's important. We have decentralised welfare in Sweden where municipalities take care of both the operation and financing of large parts of public welfare. But the decisions on regulation are taken in this House. Then it is important that the reality in the municipalities also reaches the Chamber, so that it can be made well-balanced decisions. I am convinced that Maria Stockhaus has seen in her previous role that there are shortcomings in today's legislation regarding private operators, not least in Swedish schools. These are activities that are not procured. There is therefore no possibility for the financier to make demands. There are even shortcomings in terms of transparency and transparency. At present, we cannot ensure that the resources available to independent actors are also used in school activities. There is even information that, for example, the increased funding for schools to address some of the problems we face in school is used for dividends. That, of course, is not the idea of publicly funded welfare. What I or Maria Stockhaus do with our private money after we have paid taxes, politics should not interfere. But what happens to tax funds to finance our common affairs is a completely different matter. It is not voluntary for our citizens to pay taxes. We are forcing citizens to give up a large part of their income in order to finance common welfare, including school. Then it is also reasonable that the policy, which forces citizens to pay taxes, has the tools to ensure that the money is spent effectively and effectively. We don't have those tools today. In some areas of welfare, the business is procured. Then it is possible to set procurement requirements. We can get a bit through that kind of requirement. However, we cannot solve all the problems relating to the right use of resources or transparency and openness. But there are tools there anyway. As far as school is concerned, Maria Stockhaus knows much better than I do that those opportunities do not exist. Municipalities are not in a position to ensure that resources are used for what they are intended for. That is why we need to change the regulatory framework. Is the proposal that the investigation has put forward complete and perfect? No. That is why we are working on taking in the views of the consultation bodies. And we will come forward with a proposal which takes into account the critical points that have been made. Madam President, I would like There is no doubt that it is difficult to regulate this. No other country in Europe has introduced this model, with commercial operators in the publicly funded school. Why has no other country done so? Because it's hard to regulate. If profit incentives are introduced, there is always a risk that commercial operators who make a profit, for example, reduce staffing and the percentage of qualified teachers or choose pupils to reduce costs – in order to increase profits. Then we must go in and regulate this. And then it'll be hard. A number of technical issues arise. There is always a risk that regulation reduces the room for manoeuvre of professions. Those who can stand for the quality of school are neither me nor Maria Stockhaus. It's the professions at school. And the greater the room for manoeuvre our professions have, the greater the opportunity for Swedish schools to deliver quality. But regulation is always in a potential conflict relationship with the room for manoeuvre of the professions. That is why, of course, we must also take this into account in this process. It's not an easy process. But we have an obligation towards taxpayers, in Stockholm County and throughout the country. They shall be sure that their tax money is spent effectively and for what they are intended.
i-5540bde40978b484-581	Madam President, I would like I don't know where to start. Yes, it is very important to use tax money as efficiently as possible. We take away some of their income from people to use it for the public. As far as independent schools are concerned, we have the School Inspectorate, which the Alliance introduced, which should actually also check that municipal schools are using the money properly. There was no such control before. And this government has not shown that it is important that the municipalities also carry out their tasks. When it comes to school, it is not procured. We all know that. It is an activity that is not suitable for that either. But there is an enormous amount of regulation from here, in the form of laws and regulations, for what the school should deliver. There we are prepared to go further by looking at national quality standards at school. However, this proposal runs the risk of being a manslaughter blow against all independent activities, not least the small ones. It is often about female entrepreneurs who have seen an opportunity to start their own business in an industry that was previously completely dominated by the municipality. There was not the opportunity to start your own business before, but the freedom of choice reforms that the Alliance has stood for. Now the carpet is being pulled away from the possibility of running the operations further. If you're talking about using tax money efficiently, you should probably be a little careful about which glass house you're sitting in. There is a completely insane example, but there is a long line of purely idiotic efforts that municipalities make with tax money and that no one controls. It may also be municipalities that receive a great deal of tax revenue through tax equalisation from other municipalities, which manage their finances. It affects the Stockholm area very hard. You will have to excuse me, Minister, but a camel farm in Gothenburg can reasonably not be a good use of tax money, if you are to talk about tax money going to the right things in general. The proposal goes down with surgical precision on small and female entrepreneurs. I understand that the Left Party does not think this is very important. The Left Party does not think that there should be independent actors at all. The Social Democrats act in some municipalities so that one wonders if they want independent actors. There are many examples of attempts to discourage the establishment of independent schools. There is a lack of funding for independent schools so that pupils are not given the same amount of resources. There is an enormous amount that needs to be done in terms of ensuring a level playing field for independent operators. However, I find it strange that a feminist government with two parties claiming to advocate independent activities is putting itself on the knees of the Left Party, which wants to completely remove the possibility of operating in the form of public limited liability companies in the welfare sector. This whole line of reasoning is extremely strange. It is said that tax money should be used for what it is intended for. I have more than one example of how municipalities can mismanage their money. I can't understand how it's okay to produce textbooks. Then it's no problem to make money. It's no problem to make money building schools. It is no problem to make money by delivering food to schools. That's tax money, too. Where's the line? How tricky are you to be to stop tax money possibly going to entrepreneurs? In addition, the vast majority of entrepreneurs reinvest in the business. They do not collect very much money in profit, but use the margins to build up a buffer, for example, which the proposal in the Reepalus investigation completely removes. As a result, 80% of welfare companies are at risk of survival.
i-5540bde40978b484-592	Mr President, I would like to Maria Stockhaus's statement that no one controls how the municipalities do their business surprises me. We live in a country with a decentralised welfare model. This is laid down in our constitution, and popular government takes the form of municipal self-government with municipal tax law, among other things. Unlike many other countries, it is possible to operate on the basis of the local people's will, which is expressed by universal and free elections to the municipal council. It's control of the municipalities. This is how our society has been built. I am very surprised that there is such a rejection of the municipal self-government that we do not recognise that this is the way we have chosen to build our society. Citizens exercise control over their elected representatives in each municipality. Based on the framework set up by the Swedish Parliament, the municipalities operate on the basis of local or regional will. It is the power of control that we have, and we should be very proud of it. The countries that have chosen a more centralist method of organising welfare and public activities have not succeeded better. We should be incredibly proud of the municipal self-government, not least in terms of legitimacy. People pay taxes to their municipalities and have the opportunity to choose their elected representatives, who directly influence decisions. The problem, Mr President, is that the municipalities do not have influence over activities that they are forced to finance, and then we are not talking about any activities, not about camel breeding, but about Swedish school, where there is schooling obligation. The person who finances and is responsible for school activities is not in a position to make demands or to have sufficient transparency in their activities, and this is a serious problem of legitimacy. This is also the background to the fact that Maria Stockhaus's party friends in Norway, Denmark, Germany, the UK and all other European countries have dissociated themselves from the model of commercialised operation of publicly funded schools. That's why no other country's taken a hit on this. Then there is an ideological bubble here where we start from ideological realities. But there is also a reality in everyday life that people face. Then it is very provocative that we have a regulatory framework that allows, for example, bankruptcies that are preceded by large profit payments. We have a problem when schoolchildren come to a school that is closed because of bankruptcy. We have a problem when there is a possibility of cutting back on staffing in order to increase profits in a publicly funded school where compulsory schooling is practised. Either we choose to close our eyes on the basis of our ideological perception or we choose to see the problems and do something about them. No one in this debate has proposed the removal of the independent actors. No one has proposed that we go back to the regulatory framework we had 20 to 40 years ago. No one has proposed the model represented by the Norwegian H ø yre, the Danish right-wing party Venstre or the British Tories, which states that no profit payments should be allowed in independent schools. What we have proposed is that there should be some kind of reasonableness requirement and cap on how much of taxpayers' money can be taken out of business if surplus arises. It is nevertheless reasonable and has nothing to do with the left and the right, Mr President. It is about decency in our society and legitimacy in order to be able to charge taxes to fund the school.
i-5540bde40978b484-600	Mr President, I would like to I have a pretty good grip on municipal self-government after eight years at SKL. I mentioned the example to show how one can be upset that tax money does not go to what it is intended for. Municipal self-government should reasonably apply to the tax money you collect from your own residents. For example, Gothenburg and Malmö do not receive a completely insignificant amount of money through the state tax equalisation system. There is no requirement to report back what you have used that money for. It is not possible to see exactly what money has gone to, but I do not think the Stockholmers are particularly interested in financing a camel farm in Gothenburg. As well-pleased as the purpose behind it was, it may not feel like something we think this money is going to. I share the concern of the Government for the rogue actors that have existed. But now it has tightened up the requirements for those who are given the opportunity to operate these activities. Control has been tightened up and we are prepared to discuss further measures, but not at a level that makes it impossible for these companies to live on. If there had been an interest in reaching an agreement across the blocs, which I believe these activities would have benefited from, the Left Party would not have sat down and allowed it to dictate the terms of the investigation that has now come up with its report. The problem is that this does not mean – there are probably many who think it is – a limitation of the possibility of picking profits out of the companies, but it does not. This limits the possibility of going into surplus at all, something that one must be able to do in an activity in order for it to survive. A discussion about winnings would probably even have been interested in participating in. But as this is designed, as the thinking is and as the directive for the investigation looked at it, 80% of the welfare activities run in private are removed from the carpet. Then there is no choice left. Many high-quality businesses would then have to close down.
i-5540bde40978b484-606	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank Maria Stockhaus for the discussion and for her commitment to welfare issues. I hope that we will have a debate that is a little more nuanced, where we can learn from the experiences of our country and many other countries, where we dare to question our own dogmas critically. Both the dogmas of the 70s and 90s must be questioned and critically examined. We should open the door to research to see if we have achieved the objectives set when these reforms in schools were implemented, among other things. Nevertheless, it is reasonable for us to have a critical discussion. Finally, as a matter of fact, I would like to remind Maria Stockhaus that the cooperation that the government has with the Left Party – which she chooses to question – is a cooperation that has come about in response to the demands made by Maria Stockhaus's party, among other things, in connection with the formation of the government in 2014. Maria Stockhaus's party has received criticism from other bourgeois parties that these demands have been made, that the government should cooperate with the Left Party. Regardless of what you think about this issue and regardless of what you think about the views of the government and the Left Party on this, you still have to stick to the facts. It is unreasonable to attack the government for cooperation with the Left Party when one's own party has demanded that the government have that cooperation in order for it to be tolerated by the Swedish parliament. It's worth reminding each other of that.
i-5540bde40978b484-609	Mr President, I would like to Sotiris Delis has asked the Minister for Justice and Home Affairs if he believes that further action is needed in connection with the Swedish National Audit Office's report Weaknesses in the management and management of information security for the county administrative boards. The work within the government is so distributed that it is I who should answer the interpellation. Issues related to information security are priorities for the government. The government has also taken a number of measures to strengthen society's information security. The fact that the county administrative boards have good information security, including cyber security, is of course urgent. Each authority is responsible for the security of information in its operations. The Government is responsible for ensuring that the authorities are well placed to carry out their activities. In the current report on the County Administrative Board of Västra Götaland County, the Swedish National Audit Office has pointed out shortcomings linked, among other things, to the joint organisation the county administrative boards have for IT issues. The County Administrative Board of Västra Götaland County has taken steps to address the identified shortcomings. The county administrative boards also carry out work to strengthen information security. All county boards are involved in this work. At present, the Government Office is preparing a commission in the county administrative boards' regulatory letters relating to the information security work of the authorities. I will continue to monitor efforts to strengthen the county boards' information security and, if necessary, take further action.
i-5540bde40978b484-614	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister of Civil Affairs, for your answer. The Swedish management model is largely based on delegated responsibility. As a result, each public operator has been given responsibility for creating its own IT operation solution. This has led to different solutions for how the IT operations and security work is carried out. There are many advantages to this. Each player can thus tailor their solution to their own needs. However, procurement of complex IT systems requires a very high level of procurement competence. This can lead to problems. The Swedish National Audit Office has just pointed out that the safety culture shows major shortcomings in many areas. Let us, the Government, agree that shared responsibility is nobody's responsibility. Public actors process classified information and use Krypton in different ways. We Moderates want to see clearer governance and support for the IT security work of Swedish public actors. The overall challenge of hybrid threats, including cyber threats, also requires a collective responsibility. It was, among other things, shortcomings in the management and control of information security for the county boards that the Swedish National Audit Office highlighted in the annual audit of the County Administrative Board in Västra Götaland County. The County Administrative Board of Västra Götaland is the host authority of the joint IT unit of the county administrative boards. The government lacks instruments to monitor the administration of the authorities. There is no internal audit available by the government for this particular type of review on behalf of the government. As I see it, this is a constitutional flaw. The Swedish National Audit Office does not carry out administrative audits at government level, as is generally believed. The Swedish National Audit Office only examines the annual accounts of the authorities financially, and superficially also the profit and loss report but not the administration. The Swedish National Audit Office's report also noted that knowledge of the status of information security was lacking for the county boards as a whole and that there were shortcomings in the basis for the decision. This, said the report author, made it difficult for county boards to prioritise the right measures for the development of administration. It is to be welcomed that the Red-Green Government now wants to invest in the digitisation of the public sector. Among other things, a new authority will coordinate and support digitalisation in the public sector. My question to the Minister for Civil Affairs is: how does the Minister view the work on information security in this new authority? It has proved difficult for the government to ensure that operational risks are managed effectively. It is also necessary to avoid creating dementia, i.e. the possibility of avoiding responsibility.
i-5540bde40978b484-622	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sotiris Delis, for the question. Perhaps one of the most important issues in Swedish administration is highlighted here. It is about the government's ability to follow up the goals set for various activities. This is an issue that I have come into contact with very much in the three years that I have been Minister of Civil Affairs in charge of public administration. There is no doubt that since we reformed the Swedish National Audit Office and merged the Swedish National Audit Office with the Swedish Parliament's audit facilities, the government does not have this kind of audit apparatus at its disposal. This means that the relationship between the government and the state authorities is characterised by a high degree of trust, which is not really something new, but was also true in the past. In essence, trust is a good thing, but the government must continuously acquire knowledge about how, not least, government-wide issues are dealt with. Its operation is a matter of common authority, which in this case concerns the county administrative boards. We will need to do much more. However, I will just briefly outline the measures we have taken over the past year. We have, among other things, set up a group of experts on digital investments that provides support to the authorities for digital investments in order to identify risks, among other things. This has not been in Sweden, which is very strange. It has been found in other comparable countries. We introduced this in June, and that means that the authorities can come to this group of experts for major decisions on digital investment and get support and a second opinion for the digital investment. Further action has been to create secure storage facilities for authorities that need to have the storage of highly sensitive information. We are now building a management model and a financing model for this. It is a collaboration and a mission that has been given to the Fortificationsverket and the Swedish Post and Telecom Agency. This is about the most sensitive authorities in terms of information management. We have also given an assignment to Försäkringskassan to manage IT operations for other authorities. Now you either have the choice to run the IT business yourself or outsource it. But there must also be an alternative within the state. Not all activities are appropriate to externalise. As I said, the Social Insurance Agency has been given this task. Then, as Mr Sotiris mentioned, we have plans to start the Authority for Digitalisation in the Public Sector next year. Then we will work very actively to create structures for the government-wide issues. Precisely what questions this authority should be responsible for are currently being prepared in the Government Office, so I cannot go into that. I definitely appreciate this discussion, and we will need to talk more about these issues in the Swedish Parliament and not least in the political discussion in our country.
i-5540bde40978b484-630	Mr President, I would like to The appreciation, the Government, is mutual in this discussion. I understand that the Government interprets me positively with regard to the matter that is extremely complex and sensitive. Sweden currently lacks control over operational risks. Point. Trust is good, Minister. We share this view, but the control tools must be in place. It is a little strange for me who is in the opposition to propose one thing to the government, but you can create your own audit team which, on behalf of the government, can go in and look to see that everything is right and works well. At the same time, I feel that the lack of the control mechanisms that must exist in order to be able to keep order creates precisely what I call dementibility. It is about the ability to distance yourself from own responsibility. I don't know about that. I never knew what was going on. I don't know. The question is whether the government could use dementability if things went wrong. There is another problem. We have control over financial risks. However, lack of control over operational risks creates financial risks. Because if an operational risk arises, huge amounts of capital – we are talking about a country in that case, the Government – will be used to restore the good. You have to fight evil. I will admit, Mr President and the Government, that the question of Sweden's lack of control over its operational risks has kept me awake at night a great deal. I've been wondering what's going to happen when a hatch opens and things that are definitely very sensitive get out. Let me say this about what is being handled in the 20 county boards: it is tasks, coordination missions, other management, food control, animal welfare, regional growth, infrastructure planning, nature conservation, environment, health protection, agriculture, fisheries, public health, gender equality, national minorities, human rights and organisation. Of course, the value of protection is different in these areas of activity, but if something happens – pepper, pepper – there may be a problem. I may be perceived as a burdus, but that is why I am standing here claiming that this is probably not even the government knows who is responsible for it is very serious. As I said, I thank you for this discussion. I receive the message from the Government that it is aware of the situation and prepared to act and work accordingly.
i-5540bde40978b484-639	Mr President, I would like to There is much that needs to be touched on in this discussion. Among other things, we have set up an investigation that looks at how the government's evaluation and analysis resources are organised. It may not sound like the most popular investigation set up during this term of office, but it is about seeing what opportunities the government – regardless of colour – has to evaluate the impact of the policies pursued, not least through the state authorities. This is an important investigation, I would say, and there are points of contact between that work and the common issues of authority raised by Sotiris Delis in this interpellation. What the government has done during this year is to work to build common structures so that the authorities get support. It is an attempt, within the framework of our management model, to meet the needs of an IT operation that is safe and efficient. Does the Government have the resources at its disposal to monitor in detail the activities of the State authorities? No, that's not how the management model was built. It is clear that there are plenty of strengths in our management model, but there are also weaknesses. It is possible to discuss whether this is the best possible method for organising, among other things, the public authority's common issues. It is basically a constitutional issue, but it is worth debating here. In anticipation of such debates, we are, as I said, taking a number of measures aimed at building common structures. Then my colleague Morgan Johansson, who is responsible for parts of cyber security issues, makes many efforts in relation to security-related legislation, which deals with demands on the authorities. It's kind of another trail. If we are talking about management models, I and the government are convinced that we need to have a lot of common structures. That is also why we have now built up the expert group and are building up the Authority for the digitisation of the public sector. We have also pointed out a number of authorities responsible for joint operations. We will have to do more of that, I am sure, in order to meet the needs of today's society. We must not be naive here – there are many risks around us, and we have a duty to our citizens to have an administration that meets today's demands.
i-5540bde40978b484-648	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Minister. We have more common points than dividing lines on that particular issue. We have a fresh memory of what happened to the Transport Agency. Government! The armor must be on for the good of Sweden. We have a world that is not to be played with. I thank you for the information you have come with today, and I will follow very closely the work on this.
i-RjCgNMMKNwyfuoof2GZzcn	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Sotiris Delis, for the discussion.
i-R8o6HVBAhDAaqTS9VSp2cn	Mr President, I would like to Beatrice Ask has asked Minister of Justice and Home Affairs Morgan Johansson what measures he intends to take to ensure that more local coordinators are active in the school and how he intends to clarify the school's responsibility to counter radicalisation. The question has been submitted to me for an answer. Education in the school system must be designed in accordance with fundamental democratic values and human rights. The school has an important role in protecting democracy against violent extremism. The school's main role in this context is to strengthen students in critical reflection and source criticism so that they can resist violent messages, conspiracy theories and false news. This is in line with the Paris Declaration signed by EU Education Ministers in May 2015, and principles adopted by UNESCO and the Council of Europe. This is also reflected in the support provided by the Swedish National Agency for Education on this issue. The school will provide students with the opportunity to develop knowledge and skills in order to be able to act actively in and for democracy, and to promote the acceptance and respect of the principles of democracy and human rights by children and students. It is in this broad democratic work with all students that school counteracts violent extremism. The school also needs to act in accordance with the Social Services Act with a report of concern when a child is suspected of being ill. The involvement of a young person in violent extremism is a sign of such a risk. The government has already taken several steps to strengthen the school's work on the democracy mission. Among other things, the Swedish National Agency for Education has the task of carrying out awareness-raising activities in schools on xenophobia and similar forms of intolerance, as well as developing the school's core values work within the framework of national school development programmes. The Living History Forum is carrying out an educational effort on various forms of racism. The National Media Council has the mission to strengthen the media and information literacy of children and young people through the No Hate Speech campaign. The State Media Council also has the task of identifying the protection of children and young people on the Internet in relation to racism and similar forms of hostility, hate crime and extremism. The Government has also decided on a national digitalisation strategy for the school system. According to it, students will develop media and information literacy, i.e. knowledge and ability to, among other things, find, analyse and critically evaluate information in different media and contexts. The National Agency for Education has also translated the Council of Europe's material on teaching controversial issues. The material will be tested in 2017 in a Nordic pilot within the framework of the work on DIS, i.e. democracy, inclusion and security, in the Nordic Council of Ministers. The Government's proposed efforts on education, which concern folk high schools and study associations, also have great opportunities to contribute to strengthening and developing democracy. The Government's agreement with the alliance parties of June 2017 on counter-terrorism measures states that teachers will be given competence development by the authority to deal with extremism and racism in the classroom and among students at risk. The 2018 Budget Bill states that the Swedish National Agency for Education will carry out competence development efforts for teachers in order to increase knowledge about how they can deal with extremism and racism and what responsibility the school has for pupils who are at risk of or are already involved in violent extremism. Against this background, the government is now planning to give a commission to the Swedish National Agency for Education on the school's work against violent extremism. This is based on the Riksdag's 2016 announcement on the need for a clearer responsibility for school leaders and others who work with children and young people to counteract radicalisation. With regard to the coordinators, highlighted in the SKL report From words to actions, it is of course the case that they, regardless of their background, must have good contact with the school and understanding of the school's activities. The school will work against violent extremism through what is the school's mission according to the school's regulations. Collaboration is important and must take place based on the respective actors' mandate, mandate and competence. Together with other research and studies, such as Sivenbring from 2016 and Helmius from 2017, the SKL report provides a valuable basis for the Government's continued work to combat radicalisation.
i-5540bde40978b484-659	Mr President, I would like to First of all, I should like to thank Gustav Fridolin for his answer and the broad story of measures taken to strengthen the work against violent extremism, not least in schools. The background to my questions is a report from SKL, which asked the Segerstedt Institute at the University of Gothenburg to review municipal action plans against violent extremism. The report shows that the revised action plans have many shortcomings. There is a lack of a local situation picture to analyse why different measures should be taken. There is a lot of cutting-and-cluster activities from national memos and other things behind the action plans. There is, in many cases, a lack of scientific basis for the measures advocated. Furthermore, it is believed that in 15 per cent of the action plans, municipalities have guidelines that are closer to what can be called political registration of students, which is of course illegal under Swedish law. This is bad and something I also discussed earlier today with the Minister of Justice. The school has, of course, a central place in the municipal work against violent extremism. This is self-evident because core values work must reach all children and young people that we also have in schools, often in their teens. That is where we can reach a great many, and that is where we can detect problems and act. But – and this is the background to my specific question – the report shows, although this is so important, that of the 133 local coordinators that exist and have been examined, one is active in school. The others are security managers in the municipality and many other things that are certainly important, but one must still ask whether there should be more people with a better connection to the school's work. There you reach all children and young people and have a broad picture of the situation in a municipality and in a locality. I would also like to draw the attention of the Government to the fact that the calls made to teachers in terms of how they should work are worrying. After all, school staff belong to the first-line professions when it comes to working with people who may be affected or are about to be radicalised. These calls run the risk of pushing work to the limits of our laws. For example, many plans clearly encourage staff to report to the local coordinator at an early stage if someone has tricky opinions or seems to be exposed to radicalisation. There is even an action plan that talks about looking at 10 to 13-year-olds in particular and what they might think. This is to be reported to the local coordinator, who will then proceed to the police after some sort of evaluation. We risk running teachers and other school staff right into the hands of criminality according to the constitution and laws. My discussion with the Minister of Justice this morning was about the fact that I believe that a much better review of the legal regulations must be carried out, and he was probably partly aware of that. But I would like to ask the Government what measures he believes are needed to ensure that schools' work against radicalisation and extremism takes place in line with pupils' rights. I would also like to ask whether more local coordinators should not be more clearly linked to the school.
i-5540bde40978b484-668	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, Beatrice Ask, for raising this question on the basis of the analysis that the SKL has given to the Segerstedt Institute – by the way – an institute that we have initiated. Clearly, there are two problems. The first, to which we are beginning to find a solution, is the great lack of action plans of this kind in many municipalities, not to mention neighbourhoods and other areas, where more local levels would have had to break down efforts that need to be made against violent extremism. The second problem, which we are now discussing, is the quality of the plans that are actually being drawn up. When a plan is drawn up, it must be of such quality that it becomes a useful tool for combating violent extremism for all, in the world of school and in other parts of the public, which encounters violent extremism and is able to prevent, counteract and, if in the legal sphere, prevent various expressions of violent extremism. I understood three specific issues in Beatrice Ask's speech. The first is that more coordinators should be active in school. It is correct that the Segerstedt Institute's announcement shows that of the 133 coordinators it has seen, only one is active in school. Of course, with my background, I would have liked to have seen that it was decided that more were. I have absolutely no objection to encouraging ensuring that this is a work that is becoming more common in Sweden's schools in such a way that it becomes more common for municipalities to appoint a manager who is in school. But regardless of whether that call leads to change or not, it is crucial to me that all 133 coordinators in all municipalities have full insight into how the school works. The local coordinator cannot be required to be active in school in order for him or her to have an insight into how the school can work against violent extremism. The quality review of existing action plans shows precisely that too many contexts lack knowledge of how the school can act against violent extremism. That knowledge must be there no matter where the local coordinator operates. The second question is specifically about the calls that have been seen that run the risk of, as the interpellier puts it, driving or calling on teachers to carry out work that is at the limit of what the legislation allows. That's where it's important for me to be clear. Such calls shall not appear in the Action Plans. They will, as I said in my interpellation response, be based on the tasks you can and will have in school. One is, of course, the overall responsibility for establishing democratic values among each student. It's not easy. In this, for example, is being able to take the difficult discussions in their classroom. The second is to be able to be helpful, not on an individual level but with general pictures of which ideas are moving among young people. From the school world you can communicate and discuss this with your municipality to a greater extent than elsewhere. The third is that when you see a young person who is in danger of getting hurt – and being involved in violent extremism is to get hurt – report to the social services. They can then make any additional notifications that are customary in accordance with their legislation. These are three clear tasks that are the responsibility of the school. A third issue concerns the need for a review of legal regulations. I understand that earlier today the interpeller has met Morgan Johansson, who opened up to the need for that review. There needs to be clarity for everyone in public administration as to what we should and can do and what is actually outside the framework of what we can do under today's legislation and constitution.
i-5540bde40978b484-678	Mr President, I would like to It is positive that two ministers nevertheless believe that I am right to look at the legislation in relation to what needs to be done. This work is still a bit premature and needs to be developed. But of course it is tricky that so few local coordinators have a proper connection to the school. Almost always when looking at local collaborations, the school ends up in its own little pocket and lives like its own life. When it comes to what should be done against the problems, I am, and so should the municipalities, quite anxious to link this with the school, which is given so much weight. After all, the government has also, following our agreement on combating terrorism, begun work to review the confidentiality rules for cooperation between police and social services. But the school isn't there. If school is the place where we can actually discover some things, it's clear that you have to think about-- and this is hard! – what you can do and who you can share information and other things with. That's part of this. It is not just for teachers to run off to a local coordinator, who will go to the police, and say that this seems tricky. I mentioned earlier in the debate that I am currently reading Two sisters by Åsne Seierstad, the Norwegian journalist and author. It's about two Norwegian girls radicalizing. It's really a terrible story. But you can see that there are a number of signs of radicalisation during the journey. The problem is, they're not illegal. A girl engaged in a voluntary association. All adults think it's great that you are active in associations, but nobody asks what you do at the meetings or what happens. The girls are getting more religious. It's not illegal. It is common for young people to fall in love or have a very definite outlook on life, and it can be very hot for some time. But no one sees this as a problem, and that may not be the case either. Dress changes. They tighten up, and eventually turn to religious dress. But we have no rules for what clothes you can wear in our schools, and as adults we are generally quite liberal about how kids should dress. The teachers are very happy that one of the girls is very good at school. During the radicalisation she becomes very active in the discussions in religious knowledge, history and other things. Yes, yes, the teachers say, it's a little tricky, but she's very well-read. None of these things are such that a job is set in motion. Here we need more knowledge, and we also need to think about how to respond to these tendencies without exceeding the limits of what is human rights and freedoms and the space for diversity and living out that all people need. This is incredibly difficult, but it is important. I believe that a review is absolutely necessary. I also believe that school as a whole must be included in the work carried out. There is a misconception in the action plans that all the problems of radicalisation and extreme movements are about young people. In fact, there are adults who are quite strange too, and they are often more dangerous. So you can't just stare blindly at 10-, 12- or 15-year-olds, even if you want to work long-term. You have to do two things at once. So there are some problems with this. I think the Minister for Education should think about how to get the school more included in the local work against violent extremism.
i-5540bde40978b484-689	Mr President, I would like to Thank you, interpellant. Yes, the school should be involved in the local work against violent extremism. Had the school been involved to a greater extent, I believe that some of the quality problems that the report shows had not existed. Then a strong headmaster could point out and describe what is the school's task and what cannot be the school's task, as well as what a teacher does, when you have the right conditions, skills and tools, and what a teacher should not actually do. This knowledge is available in schools where they have worked on this for a long time. One effort we make to ensure that the knowledge is available in more schools is that we strengthen the national school development programmes, which are thus the state permanent infrastructure for spreading competence in the country's schools. There are parts about how to learn more about violent extremism to recognize signs of it and how to respond to the often difficult discussions that can occur in a classroom. There is a knowledge in Sweden in contexts where we have managed to act in the classroom situation, for example against white power environments. That kind of knowledge should be disseminated, so that we can use it in other contexts as well as in other types of radicalisation. The interpeller raises the question of confidentiality law. It is important for me as Minister of Education to be clear here. I think we're at risk of detour if we focus on the confidentiality between school and social services. What has happened over the past 10 – 15 years is that we have had a development where municipalities and schools, both independent and public, have found tools to overcome the obstacles that have been found in the confidentiality legislation. It has been shown that these opportunities exist. Every time we announce a new legislative review, we risk sending out the signal that it is difficult to deal with this today rather than spreading examples of how to deal with it. We also run the risk of making changes to legislation, which is, of course, very complicated, which puts the work back on square zero in cases where solutions have been found for the transfer of information between school and social services. So I have some doubts that this is precisely the signal to be sent. Rather, it is the good examples of how to work closely together between school and social services that need to be spread. Violent extremism is a major issue and is not just about confidentiality legislation for schools and social services. If you, as a teacher or other person working in a Swedish school, see a student who is at risk of being in a difficult situation or a destructive environment, you have a duty to report this to the social services. Radicalization into violent extremism definitely qualifies as ending up in a destructive environment. Then the teacher will file a complaint with the social services. Then the social services will have the skills, tools and knowledge as to which further notifications and information transfers are to be made, for example to the police. There, some problems with confidentiality legislation have been identified, and we shall now try to address them.
i-5540bde40978b484-695	Mr President, I would like to That is precisely why what is said in the local action plans is a little strange. It also calls on teachers to go directly to the local coordinator. Given how quickly the radicalisation process can go, it is also foolish to take the detour over social services if you do not need it. I am well aware of the complexity of legislation on confidentiality in terms of interaction between authorities. But neither Gustav Fridolin nor I will get away with the hot potatoes sooner or later. It is important that no one should be able to blame the existence of regulatory barriers on certain issues. However, we must sort out when they enter and under what conditions. So we have to do. I am pleased to have been told that the government is doing a great deal in this area. Of course, education on these issues is needed for the school staff, but I'm a little afraid that you're doing a little too much to describe things that I assume a social science teacher already knows, that is, what different movements mean and what the dinner and the date think. Rather, knowledge must be created to deal with difficult debates and discussions. One should be able to deal with misunderstandings and other things on a deeper level. I know the government has set up an institute. At the end of the debate, I can also mention that we Moderates are spending quite a lot of money – that is 30 million in the budget – on this type of work. The aim is to strengthen the education and competence programme that I understand the government is also on the agenda. I think it is extremely important that those in the front line feel safe and at least understand what is happening, so that they dare and can intervene. We will ensure that the legislation does not send them in the wrong direction.
i-5540bde40978b484-700	Mr President, I would like to We are in complete agreement on this. More tools are needed here. Of course, a teacher in Sweden has basic competence, but we need to educate teachers in how to respond to the difficult discussions that arise in the classroom. At the same time, the environments are changing very quickly, just as radicalisation is happening quickly, and they also look very different depending on which schools it is about. This is precisely why it is important that the skills that we can capture nationally are spread quickly, so that it is available when one identifies that teachers are asking for deeper education. This can apply from the practical to identifying symbols to the deeper and more difficult – how can I best respond to the arguments that come up, and which external actors can I trust and contact to get a slightly broader discussion that can counteract radicalisation at our school? You should also know which actors you should keep too good to contact. These are exactly the questions you can ask yourself in the teacher's role.
i-5540bde40978b484-702	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm has asked me how I intend to work to ensure that the member countries of the World Trade Organisation, the WTO, are given greater opportunities to work for the environment without it allegedly constituting a barrier to trade. He has also asked whether I will work towards modernising the general exemption rules of Article 20 of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, GATT, so that they can be used more easily to pursue a progressive environmental policy. First of all, I would like to emphasise that the promotion of sustainable development and the promotion of the environment and climate are central to the government's trade policy. The potential of trade to drive the development of innovative and resource-efficient solutions is a key factor for environmentally sustainable development. A prerequisite for a global spread of environmental technologies, renewable energy and bio-based products is that trade in environmentally sustainable goods is facilitated, and this is something that Sweden has been driving for a long time. The environment also has a central place in the work on the Government's export strategy. The question raised is primarily about the WTO. Under Article 20 of the GATT, WTO members may introduce or maintain national measures, inter alia, in the field of the environment, which derogate from the other provisions of the Agreement, provided that such measures do not constitute a form of arbitrary discrimination or constitute hidden barriers to trade. The regulatory framework thus allows other social interests to take precedence over commercial interests. The government wants the trading system to support and not conflict with global environmental efforts. On the Swedish and Nordic initiative, the EU therefore pushed the relationship between the WTO acquis and the rules of multilateral environmental conventions – including an interpretation of Article 20 of GATT – to be part of a new round of WTO negotiations. The EU was successful in the negotiations, and the issue is included in the mandate for the Doha Development Agenda. Unfortunately, that negotiation process has stopped. In the run-up to the 11th WTO ministerial meeting in Buenos Aires, the issue of WTO reform has been raised and it is likely to be an issue for further discussion. The government will then have reason to reflect on the priorities that Sweden should appropriately address as future reform issues. Protecting and strengthening multilateral cooperation is the main objective of the government in these discussions. Trade and the environment are a high priority, which the government actively pursues to support sustainable development. I would like to return to Jens Holm when we see a little more clearly how the reform discussion in the WTO will be handled and after the Government Office has prepared the broader question of WTO reforms among the relevant departments.
i-5540bde40978b484-709	Mr President, I would like to I would like to thank the Minister for Trade for the answer to my interpellation. The reason why I am raising this issue now, of course, is the WTO summit that will soon be held in Buenos Aires, Argentina. Such a summit will have the opportunity to raise the important issues. I and the Minister fully agree that trade is very important. By trading more with each other, we can squeeze prices. We can improve the quality of goods. We can get things that we could not produce ourselves, and we can export to other countries things that they do worse. There is no doubt that we agree. I believe that it may be a problem when trade liberalisation is pushed a little too far, when it is said that trade is superior to other considerations. In my view, there are, in fact, several examples of this going so far. In my interpellation, I mention India's grand attempt to build what would probably have become the world's largest solar park. This was a few years ago. When you go in with large public funds, you obviously also want to ensure that you create local jobs and that it is a local production of part of the solar panels. This was one of India's demands for state investment in the solar park. The requirement was to promote local production at the same time. The United States brought India before the WTO. The United States won. Therefore, India was not allowed to rig its solar park on the condition that part of the solar panels would be produced locally in India. The same problem had Canada. The state of Ontario has had major problems when heavy industry has been closed down. They wanted to invest in new renewable energy and launched a grand renewable energy plan for the entire state of Ontario. It was drawn before the WTO Dispute Settlement Tribunal by Japan and the EU. They said: No, it is a barrier to trade. You must not make demands for local jobs to be created in Ontario, Canada. Then I mean it's gone too far, because this is what we want to do. We want to promote renewable energy and switch, but we also want to create local green jobs. There are organisations that have looked at how many times they have been able to use what is called Article 20 – which I mention in my interpellation and which also the Minister mentions – which should be the general exception, which overrules environmental considerations and some other considerations even though it is not purely free trade. Only in a few cases have countries been able to use Article 20 to promote environmental considerations. I think the reason is that it's an old article. It's from the late '40s. There was no climate change discussion at the time. There was no Paris agreement and so on. I think it is good that the Minister is now saying that Sweden wants to work towards strengthening environmental considerations in the WTO agreements and that Article 20 should be re-established. But I wonder: why not raise the issue of modernising and improving Article 20, i.e. the WTO's environmental exemptions, already at the Buenos Aires Summit in Argentina?
i-5540bde40978b484-718	Mr President, I would like to Jens Holm believes that we are pushing the free trade issue too far. I mean, we don't. I can begin by commenting on the two examples that Jens Holm mentions in his interpellation, where he believes that the environment has had to stand back for trade. I believe that it is purely protectionist interests that have had to stand back for free trade. The problems in these two cases did not concern whether or not the environment could be excluded. In both cases, it concerned discrimination between domestic and foreign operators. This is something that is extremely important for Swedish companies, which are often very prominent compared to others when it comes to environmentally friendly products. The dispute in the Indian case was whether India could exclude foreign countries, such as Swedish companies and suppliers. The reason, as Jens Holm mentions, was that it required products to be delivered to the project to contain a certain percentage of locally produced parts. There was therefore a demand for local content. India thereby made imports of solar cells and modules more difficult, which meant that Indian companies gained advantages vis-à-vis foreign suppliers, such as Swedish ones. The same was true of the dispute between Canada and Japan and the EU and others. Here, too, demands were made that foreign suppliers' products must contain a certain percentage of locally produced parts. Now I shall go back to the basic issue of the interpellation, that is, the relationship between the trade acquis in the WTO and trade measures in multilateral environmental conventions. This was at the top of Sweden's and the EU's agenda for a long time and was about whether there was a need for clarification of the WTO acquis in order for trade measures in the environmental conventions and the WTO agreement to become more compatible. The application of the exceptions to the GATT rules on health and the environment, Article 20, was part of the discussion. As I am sure Jens Holm knows, in 1996 the EU put forward a very far-reaching proposal to add to the exceptions to GATT Article 20 for trade measures taken under an environmental convention. But few countries supported the EU. Therefore, the EU revised its position in order to pursue the issue of clarifying the relationship between the WTO acquis and the multilateral environmental conventions. In Doha, the EU achieved success in the negotiations, and the issue is included in the mandate for the Doha Development Agenda. The negotiations then focused for many years on an interpretation of the mandate. A majority of WTO Member States also showed no interest in moving forward, which we deeply regret. After five years of negotiations, which had not gone beyond the interpretation of the mandate, only Switzerland supported the EU. In 2006, the EU proposed a number of legal principles to clarify the relationship between the regulatory framework. That has been discussed, but now the negotiations have stopped. Given the stalemate in the agricultural negotiations, it is difficult to see that the issue would receive support to be discussed at the present time. On the other hand, one of the priorities for Sweden on the negotiating agenda in the WTO in Buenos Aires is to reduce harmful subsidies in fisheries. There is a direct connection between the environment and climate. I would like to emphasise that the issue of the relationship between trade and the environment is a high priority for Sweden, but we need to see where we can achieve success. The EU should be a forerunner in implementing the Paris Agreement in all policy areas.
i-5540bde40978b484-728	Mr President, I would like to Me and the Trade Minister have a slightly different interpretation of the processes against Canada and India. Of course, in strict free trade interpretation, it is wrong for a country like India to say that they should have partially local content in the solar panels produced. From an Indian perspective, however, it is about building a local capacity to reset your country, and it is not really any stranger than that, when we make our local investments with state funds, we might want to create jobs here in Sweden. We also want it to have some other positive effects. The interesting thing about the US-India case is that India was also trying to use the GATT opt-out clause, i.e. Article 20. But it could not be used, as there are many examples. It has been about tuna fishing, flavoured cigarettes, tax levels on alcohol and so on. In almost no case have the countries been able to introduce these derogations, or there have been huge problems with the use of Article 20. My first direct question to Ann Linde is therefore: do we not agree that the opt-out clause, Article 20, is outdated and needs to be redesigned, modernised and adapted to new, modern international environmental agreements, such as the Paris Agreement? I have not seen in detail the EU proposals mentioned by the Minister, but I think it is good that the EU has lifted this. The EU has every opportunity to raise it now that it is a WTO summit in Argentina, and Sweden as a party to the WTO could also raise it. Therefore, among other things, I am disappointed when I saw the EU position and Sweden's position ahead of the ministerial meeting in Buenos Aires. There is no mention of the possibility of strengthening the derogation for the environment. It is mentioned that harmful subsidies should be removed and fishing and that part, and I think that is good, but why does it not raise the issue now that you have the chance? Now I have talked about the opt-out clause to strengthen environmental considerations in GATT, but there are also other ways of strengthening environmental considerations in free trade and other trade relations. If it is so difficult to change this opt-out, does the Minister have any other suggestions on how to strengthen environmental considerations? Could we perhaps imagine choosing a number of environmental technologies and products and not only saying that customs duties and tariffs should be abolished, because I know that there is a debate, but also that it may be possible for countries to simply go ahead and do things that might perhaps be interpreted as a small restriction in the free trade regime? Since it has so many benefits for environmental considerations and climate change, can we strengthen those elements? Are there any possibilities that would be pursued alongside Article 20 that we are talking about?
i-5540bde40978b484-735	Mr President, I would like to I think me and Jens Holm are very much in agreement on a lot. We think that Article 20 is outdated and needs to be re-examined. That's for sure. Then we disagree on, for example, the two examples mentioned by Jens Holm and whether there are restrictions on environmental issues or restrictions on free trade. In the case of Canada, it required 60 percent locally produced parts for solar energy. When it comes to solar energy, Sweden is very good, so it was not about environmental issues but about a clear protectionist case where you would stop the opportunities for Swedish environmental technology to participate, and I do not think that is good. Jens Holm also asks what questions we are pushing. We drive questions that we think we can achieve success in on different scenes. If we were to push for Article 20 in Buenos Aires, we would not be moving forward at all. The risk is rather that we would get a total no. It would simply be said that the issue already exists in the Doha negotiations, even if the Doha negotiations are not working now. Therefore, it is much smarter to wait until the reform comes up than to mention Article 20 now. We know that it is only the European Union and Switzerland and no one else who brings it up. I talk about environmental issues all the time when I meet with my colleagues. In fact, Sweden is one of the most active countries in driving the development of sustainable free trade agreements. The aim of these agreements is, of course, to support sustainable development by providing high levels of protection for the environment and health. The removal of customs and other barriers to trade in environmental technologies is also a priority. The EU's free trade agreements now always have a special sustainability chapter focusing on environmental, health and labour law issues, such as cooperation on sustainable fisheries, the use of chemicals, sustainable consumption and so on. I can tell you that at the last ministerial meeting I raised the issue of fossil fuel subsidies and announced that I will be involved in a side arrangement in Buenos Aires to get an internal discussion on this and push this issue forward. Work is also currently under way to strengthen the implementation of the sustainability chapters – it is the Commission that initiates it, but we are one of them that drives it the most. Our basic position is that the sustainability chapters should contribute to free and fair trade and that Sweden should promote broad and ambitious agreements that protect the environment, social rights, human health and animal welfare. When the EU decides on free trade negotiations with a country, an impact assessment is also carried out on the impact of the agreement on sustainable development. That's what they call sustainability impact assessment. This is an important instrument for assessing impacts on climate and the environment, among other things, and it was a Swedish initiative that made it possible to always have SIA impact assessments like this. We are pushing for these assessments to have greater influence both during contract negotiations and in follow-up agreements. Since the early 2000s, Sweden has been working towards the liberalisation of environmental goods and services. We hope that we will succeed in this work.
i-5540bde40978b484-745	Mr President, I would like to I think it is good that Sweden should include the subsidies for fossil fuel, for example. It is good to have these environmental impact assessments and other environmental issues addressed by the Minister in this context. I also think it is very good that there is a special sustainability chapter in all trade agreements now. However, I would like to ask Ann Linde a question about the legal status of the sustainability chapter: what can you actually use it for? When I put the question to Trade Commissioner Cecilia Malmström about the sustainability chapter in the Japan Agreement, it has some legal status and if it can be used in a possible dispute, she said that it cannot be done and that the chapter was more a general intention. When Naomi Klein, the Canadian debater and author, spoke at the alternative meeting in Paris in 2015, she said that trade always trumps the climate. When it comes to regulating trade, everything is very detailed, but when it comes to environmental considerations and climate action, it is unfortunately very fuzzy. I hope that the Minister will push matters harder. I would like to know when the Minister will raise the issue of Article 20 within the WTO and within the EU. Finally, I'd like to hand over a present – it's almost Christmas – to the minister. It's the book if not us, who? I wrote it myself, and it came out this week. The book is about how we can stand up more for the environment and climate, not least in international trade.
i-5540bde40978b484-750	Mr President, I would like to Thanks for the book! I'll read it with great interest during Christmas holidays. Mr President, I would like to Finally, I would like to round off where we started. It is now a claim that Article 20 of the GATT is difficult to use and would not be useful in the environmental and climate context. But I'm saying that's not true. In practice, WTO members make extensive use of the legitimate grounds for exemption. Every year, hundreds of new or reformed legislative proposals are notified with a view to protecting the health, animal health or environment of the country to the various WTO committees, where other members have the opportunity to comment on the compatibility of the legislation with WTO law. Although there are Member States which consider that some legislative proposals are not proportionate or should have been formulated less restrictive of trade, in terms of the number of notified legislative proposals, very few cases where a dispute arises. However, I would like to thank interpelllan Jens Holm for the discussion on the link between trade and the environment. I know that these things are dear to both of us, even if we have a slightly different analysis of the situation. Trade and the environment are a high priority, and the government and I are actively pursuing this issue to support sustainable development. If not us, who?
