ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u1	A respectable president. This was the end of the program, which is queries at a meeting as the highest. President cut off earlier. I have to say, I think I just never saw it happen that way. A senator has a place to speak at the highest. A minister who goes out of the council hall before he answers. A candidate in the second, answer for such a team. Was a minister going to a meeting? Was he talking to the World Bank Fund or the United Nations or what? [[Take it up: The chocolate cake.]] He was going to get a cake, a respectable president. I just have to say, I think it's really amazing. I'm just asking a president if this is a good idea at the council that the program is ignored in this way by the highest level. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u2	A respectable president. Of course, we know this supreme one. The prime minister, who has been for a short time, is showing repeatedly extraordinary disrespect for his colleagues at the council and for challenging in the months and losing out on discussions with members of the council that they wish to talk to the highest level. Prime Minister and, of course, is merely responding. Now that the prime minister is available to come and answer a inquiry, he cannot even see his own dignity in finishing the discussion and listening to the second introductory by those who ask him who also want to be president of the political class. For years now it has been regarded as the custom here that the presidents of political parties showed honor to one another in their relations at the council. It is inevitable, but this disregard for the council and its associates at the General Assembly, which the prime minister repeatedly shows. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u3	A respectable president. I agree with what. Congressmen of Helgi Hjörvar and Spágís Svavarsdóttir in these matters. I find it hard to believe that at least some people don't show the respect here in the audience to finish the conversation. Also, I would like to say about the particular discussion that took place earlier on the hula language in which one incident occurred. A senator lost his temper here in a chair of speech and slanted over the Senate and beat in the pit so that you have just never heard anything else like that, and then you don't even feel so decent to finish the conversation, to be in the hall, just to leave the room behind some noise and noise, it's not decent for a man to come up like that and then act like it's all right. It's not okay. It's just a long way from working.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u4	A respectable president. I thought I'd no longer be surprised at the ultimate disregard. One minister to the council, but this time I was a little surprised. This is an unusual form of disrespect, but I must admit that I am a little tired of having to come here and say that I am not surprised at the way a prime minister treats the council. It is perfectly human to make a mistake, perhaps from time to time, and then explain it or something like it, but it is a clear pattern. Now I sound like a crazy record, a respectable president, because it's a clear pattern and it's been from the beginning. It's constant and persistent, it's intolerable, it's a big deal, and I still think it's weirder than that. So the prime minister has not come in here to explain where he has gone or what has happened. We can all forgive, I'm sure, but we need a little respect, just a little bit. [[The president calls.]] There would be a lot in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u5	Mr. President. It is ever up to new heights, pride, and superiority shown by the prime minister of this land, his associates. The subject was presented last November 13, and this year the prime minister saw the reason to go to the Hall and discuss it with the chairman of the left movement, but he obviously did not have the opportunity or time to complete that discussion because he was here having coffee and cake. What does he think his role is as a minister in the government? Isn't it having dealings here with members of Congress, or is it something else? It speaks of personality problems, disrespect, and other things that you can think of. It's safe to say that the highest. The prime minister does nothing to help with the affairs of Congress, that's for sure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u6	Mr. President. It's amazing. The prime minister is showing disrespect to the council, to himself and to the people by such conduct, not to sit here for the inquiry as a matter of course. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, presented and finished that discussion, as is customary here at the council. V.E.G. I thought that this is how many gears are going to reach most of the national cake, because we were discussing the chicken business here, so I'm just going through that discussion. However, it is surprising that people do not sit here and discuss matters to the end. Rather, they are so concerned with getting a piece of the cake. We're in a hurry. Or are we somewhere else? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u7	V.E.G. President. We are elected agents at the Allied Council of Iceland, and we have legal and financial authority, and we also have a surveillance role with the executives. This is our job with various queries, including this one, which is usually on Monday, with prepared queries for oral reply. It is an incredible disrespect for this role in our not completing answers to such inquiries and perhaps in the spirit of those who come up here and think of how many times we complain in the smaller part and talk about throwing and blowing when we're doing our job. I wish for the highest. The president will pick it up at the highest. Prime Minister that he respects the guidelines in this hall. It is not possible for the General to work in harmony with rules and traditions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to direct a request to a respectable president, as well. A minister of finance because he may be here in the Hall of Congress, as he is so diligent, about what a body of Congress should do about this conduct. Prime Minister. If we come here in a pita and complain about the behavior of the prime minister, who knows that we are doing a lot of good, we complain that we are complaining and that we are either called delay or what, something we have absolutely no reason to do now as often as before. What are we gonna do? Shall we pray to the highest. Prime Minister that he would be here and finish a discussion that he should follow all the traditions I know to do? Shall we beg him? Shall we do this -- What shall we do, more dignified president? [[Up front.]] We need an answer. It's not working.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u9	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the legislation of the legislation on the repairs of financial market violations. The goal of the bill is to make the financial market more stable and to increase the safety effects of violating financial markets. At this time the bill will take a step in composing national legislation with the European Union financial market rules that fall within the metre of the European Economic Convention. Similarly, if it is legal, the bill will promote the management of a financial market, but credible monitoring with progressive violations is important in increasing financial trust. The bill suggests some changes in most of the financial laws that apply to financial markets. First, it is suggested that the authority be granted to the law to pay the penalty for violations against financial market laws. In the spring of 2014, similar laws were passed on to legal cases, and this bill suggests that it will be taken doublely that it is permitted to punish lawyers for violating other financial legislations in the same way. Second, the bill suggests that there will be a change to administrative legislation in certain financial laws. It is as previously stated, an unbreakable part of a solid market. To ensure the security and credibility of the market, open communication and prophylaxis are key but must also be equipped to deal with violations of the law. It is difficult to take any offense for the sake of the number of cases and the amount of time that it takes to complete an investigation, charges, and judicial hearings. Here, administrative treatments can be useful more efficient and cost-free compared to conventional penalties. They are used to punish for less economic violations, i.e. ... whenthereis no need to sue the police. Whether the case can be completed by government fine or if it is reported to the police will ultimately depend on the UN assessment of whether or not major violations are legal. It is important that budgets be regularly revised in order to achieve their purpose, while contributions in current legislation are from 2007. Because of the changes in financial environment over the past few years, and it is time to make changes now. The bill suggests that the funds of the management fines that can be imposed are well-related and are suggested to maximise the administrative fines that may be imposed on the legislators may be 10% of their overall well-being on the list. Business year. It is suggested that the upper limit of the government's sum be 65 million. K. individuals and will be the same boundaries in all financial laws. In accordance with the requirements set out in the European Union Directive, proposal to ensure that Member States are allowed to adopt administrative guilty due to violations of the legislation. These directives will be part of the EEA Convention and will be fully harmonized between them and the Icelandic legislation. The loss of control guilty is not new, since it is already in Icelandic law and is such a law, e.g. ... incontestantlaws. The cross-cutting of fines is aimed at ensuring that relative agreement exists between the pressures of government guilty and the scope of crime. However, the pressures of fines need to be balanced, consistent, and moderate. I reiterate that administrative laws never replace penalties but punishment is the most serious violations of financial markets. Third, this bill suggests that it protects fines and prisons up to six years from violating the restrictions of high-risk commitments in the financial law. Six-year punishment is a new law order, but the example is for six-year penalties guilty of violations of the bond law against certain legal requirements. In other words, it is new in the financial law. The rules on the limitations of high-risk commitments are set in order to reduce the integration of risks in financial companies and to deal with the risks of individual financial companies rather than with the financial system as a whole. However, the risks of one or more members related to each other may be maximal in two or more financial companies at the same time at the same time, at the risk of chain reaction, if the enterprise experiences financial problems. Prior to the 2008 financial collapse, large groups of related creditors formed a high system risk, which was thought to have contributed to the disaster in the fall of 2008. With regard to the premium of financial events and the overall consequences of violations of high - risk restrictions, financial markets and the economy are important, and six - year - old imprisonment is proposed. Fourth, these same legal classes are suggested to include points that the SEC should consider with the decision of government guilty. The factors to be considered are the responsibility of the attorney, the economic situation of the offender, the benefit of the offense or the loss of a fraction, the loss of a third party, and the possible systemic effects of the offense. A respectable president. Finally, fifthly it is suggested that financial firms and stock exchange laws be added to the authority to determine a government ticket taking into consideration the financial benefits of the offender. The source leads to a double amount of government fines made by the financial benefit of the offender. If this bill is legal, it will increase the credibility of the Rapporteur and also promote a more stable financial market. Monitoring partners will have more resources to deal with fractures and changes in administrative legislation will be expected to increase the safety effects of violations against financial legislation. Another effect is that if there is a step toward fixing national legislation on the financial markets that fall within the EEA Convention and therefore, if necessary, it will be better to prevent monitoring problems and moral problems so that companies do not choose to work further in another country where legal rights are less lenient. It is often referred to as a patrol that is an attempt to translate the English term for when it is chosen to have its work in the country where observation is the mildest and also the penalty for violations. This may include a weakness for the whole system, both for individual countries and also for the entire EEA on the same site. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. by the end of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u10	A respectable president. Here earlier today, the highest line answered. The prime minister asks why. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, in the case of unveiled legislation that is built in the Ministry of Presidency, becomes the bill that was understood in the reply to me by the highest degree. Prime Minister set out in the fall. Then it came out, and I explained that before the council, there is a bill on a total law that we in the Councils of Bjarts the future, along with the Council of Pirata, have submitted to the informant. The report on this bill tells of the Commission that prepared these legislation, that she has studied the laid - up legislation in Denmark, Britain, Liechtenstein, and Malta, and after that, and considering that in Norway and Sweden, there is now a change in the process of revising the committees felt that there should be a legal adjustment in the country and watch for developments in neighboring countries. It seems that there is not enough overall vision in the media at the highest level. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister. [[The president calls.]] Can he explain?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u11	Mr. President. What is referred to in this report is that when I established a committee to work on reevaluation of the law in this field, in July 2014, I specifically requested that the committee go over some factors in the matter of sufficiency in this field, that it be needed to review the amount of government fines and fines, as I have considered. I also specifically wanted us to see in what way we in Iceland could adopt the rules of smoking legislation in the basis of the offenses being committed in this field. The conclusion is, I can't change, that the committee took this into consideration, and it is evident that there is a large fermentation in neighboring countries on these issues. [[The president calls.]] The committee, in turn, encourages the Ministry to pay close attention, and we intend to do so in a special way in relation to the offense involved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u12	A respectable president. I'd better say the best. Secretary of finance how to do this. It is best that this is in total law, which includes both private informants, as considered here in part, and in the public sector so that it is the total law that ensures the proper protection of the informants, whether it is or not, and makes the squares that humans can follow, first in the so-called internal exposure and then the external exposure, if that is to be replaced. What's key to this is that there are tools and tools to ensure the P.R. is at some point or in some institution or company being working against public interests. That is why this is an excellent effort at the highest level. Secretary of finance, which I'm pleased with, that his men are considering this, but the important thing is so clear in my mind that we should put total laws that cover the whole category, public and private companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u13	Mr. President. I think it's right next door. A senator said that in recent years this law field has been unmistakably tested in a new and unknown way. In fact, when it comes to financial activity, there are additional general rules on, for example, banking, and this is why it needs to be handled. There was nothing to prevent the middle of the collapse of banks that there's a lot of information and information coming out. For example, I remember that one of the bank's loans was made public on the Internet. On the other hand, at the council, we began to lose all confidence in the conduct of the research program and the evidence given by the Allied Research Committee, we should be able to be quite sure that there were no legal barriers to what has happened at all costs, but to the future, I would agree with that. A senator says we need to put our hands on this subject. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u14	Mr. President. I'm glad I'm doing it. The Secretary of Economics and Economics is so positive. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur. The truth is, I think this bill is in many ways very good and would have been better off before and possibly we could have saved a lot of damage during the crisis, so I understand this bill. The key problem is that it's missing all this about exposure into the bill. Mr. President. It is stated in the bill that humans in effect have decided to take control laws, fines rather than punishments, and I completely agree with that. I think you're right. V.E.G. As the report shows, a minister did well over it, which numbers and finesmen are talking about, 65 million. K. in the case of an individual and well-related fines up to 10% of the successful last year in the case of a legal person. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How did these figures come about?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u15	Mr. President. These figures have been partly born over time, and in the bill there is an effort to coordinate the point of the money. To some extent, the Senate needs to decide on what is proper. I reasoned that the sum of this kind is natural to some extent the financial development of the country. I also note that this budget does not change that the SEC can determine double the amount of money that has been paid by humans or what they have saved from a loss by an illegal process. Yet, one of the main points of this matter is that of reason. The senator noted that even if we were going to agree that these matters were somewhat serious, they could still be made available to those in charge but that smaller cases can be smelled by the government rather than by the release of charges.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u16	Mr. President. I'm not far from thinking the highest part of my life. Minister of these matters. In his background, he said that the thought behind the slaving of fines was one of the ways in which the F.A. was able to determine fines in agreement with offenses. But you might well imagine that a violation is so gross, and for example, it carries such a huge risk to the system as much as it deserves a higher guilt. That's why I'm asking where this 1 0's coming from. They may come from the European Union? V.E.G. A minister didn't say that in his history, and I can't find it in a report. That's what I was wondering. On the one hand, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, maybe I didn't take it well enough, but let's say that the SEC is going to be aware of non-sized offenses, but includes a trend that could build great, large, systematic risks, is it not possible that the Ministry of finance can raise a guilty line, since the case is at an early stage rather than resorting to severe prison punishment? Is it not possible to use penalties that are guilty of high - risk violations? [[The president calls.]] Will it really be punishment or imprisonment?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u17	Mr. President. The idea of scoping with law is derived from the European Court and we expect that there will be a part of the European Economic Area to go that way. There may not be a clear answer to the second question, but this is so that when a offense is judged very seriously, it is not a rule ticket but a subsequent case against the individual. Thus remember the financial boundaries and the sanctimonious peak leading to all the major offenses - that result from the extent of the case that it is considered to be so serious that it cannot be completed by government fines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u18	Mr. President. The report identifies a committee as the highest authority. One factor was the appointment of a minister to consider whether there was a reason to adopt the laws of informers. In view of this, there is a transformation in Norway and Sweden. As a result of this decree, the Commission decided that it would be right to wait until the country's legal adjustment and to monitor developments in neighboring countries. I'd like to ask a minister in view of the reasons why he felt he had to wait. The committee suggested something, and on what basis did the prime minister agree completely with their proposals? Why couldn't they work together because they've started working? We can be working here at the same time. Second, how is that work in Norway and Sweden? What time frames are at the highest. Is there a financial secretary who takes care of getting it into Icelandic legislation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u19	Mr. President. It was my decision in the Ministry to consider these matters together on the committee to whom it was assigned. In other words, the update of the budget, welfare, increased monitoring privileges, and other factors is largely unrelated and independent of changes in the laws for informers but still felt that they would be examined together. It was the conclusion of the Committee that had the responsibility to give up the bill I am offering here on all the factors mentioned above. The committee considered the other project to be more time - consuming, so I decided to play the bill ahead and continue to observe the rest. It's still on the schedule. I don't know exactly how this work works in the North countries, but it's the main conclusion of the Commission in short, that in this area, it's a highly fermentation and a good thing for us to see where people land their ideas in neighboring countries. [[The president calls.]] If so, we may be able to learn something from the work and the discussion there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u20	Mr. President. It was natural for the highest. Minister to add this if there's a suggestion to punish the people for mistaking something, breaking the law, etc. However, the information is often lacking, and there is a legal issue that encourages people to act if the law is being violated in this regard. So, of course, it is wise to take it together. There was a conference by the Ministry and the Contestant, I think I'll bet, in the Valley Hall in the autumn of 2013. One of the originalists gave a discourse, a professor from the United States, and spoke of what it's like in that country if people are informed of tax fraud, etc. If it's a fraction that's costing you, you'll get a share of what it's saving the state. He said, "You're a black sheep, but you're, at least, a rich black sheep for doing this. [[The president calls.]] For one thing, this is to ensure the financial foundation of those who need to reveal such matters. [[The president calls.]] They cannot do so in secret. They must be made manifest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u21	Mr. President. As I went along with it before, it may be one of the main problems of those who want to present information that there are special laws on how a person handles confidential information, and that is especially what needs to be taken into account in further consideration. Of course, there are factors, I think, but we haven't chosen a way to reward men in particular for informing, whether of a tax law or any other criminal offense against our heads, and I think we should be very careful on that path. The point at the moment is that I'm interested in furthering this and that we try to learn a lesson from what might be considered appropriate in neighboring countries. This law is being taken, this order is being revised, and we will be keeping an eye on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u22	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the budget for the case. Of course, it is important, especially after we have gone through a financial breakdown like ourselves, to go through financial embargos and, in fact, to activate the status of the informants, and it is a poem that it is not being handled on this journey. However, it is interesting to note that the conclusion of the General Commission is that the SEC was not a failure for the economic breakdown of authority rights to address the violations or other aspects of financial companies and including not a lack of authority to govern the government fines. What was lacking was the use of authority by the Ministry of Economics. That's why I want to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he agrees with the General Commission's opinion that the evidence is not lacking but that there is something to do with it and that there is something to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u23	Mr. President. This is a matter that is not related but well. We're discussing an increasing application of government fines, and this is primarily to the point that it doesn't always have to take the charges and charges. As to what was reported in the General Commission report, I think that all of us understand that the banks had advanced to the level of security, even if there were some examples of the intervention of the surveillance program. I'm not well enough in my mind about isolated cases to tell me whether such an example was obvious. But it seems to me now that the size of the banks was such that the project was being overgrown by the SEC.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u24	A respectable president. Since it is unrelated, we must ask the highest question. Minister: Will these new sources be given here? One is to accept authority from the FDA, but has it been used as its source and in some way helped to establish the Commission's administration, or in another rule of oversight?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u25	Mr. President. I don't know if it's unfair, but maybe we can split these up in two, and we can separate it before and after a knock. There was an increase in funds in the SEC, and were they used for the use of the SEC in this regard? I have to tell you my point, it seems now to me. I don't remember the numbers exactly, but I think the Department of Economics has reported a special prosecutor on another hundred cases. Then there is something else about these matters with a special prosecutor. They might consider how many charges led to a suspect's trial, to investigate, and then to file a charge. [[The president calls.]] And what was the percentage there? In fact, if the charges are very low, it may even be concluded that the charges have gone too far.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u26	Mr. President. I think it's a pleasure to have this bill done. It can be viewed as one piece in a very large picture that is the subject of going through all financial legislation that could be said to have been more and less recent since 2009, as it turns out, and everyone knows that there was no need. This is a review of, a coordinated and updated law by violations of the laws in this field, in a variety of financial services. Of course, it is wise to review the entire area, as well as most of the laws involved in history, currency law, the electronic registration of stocks, the growth and insurance, and the financial companies and others. The advantage of handling the matter in this way is that there will be a reasonable conformity in the terms of this legislature, different aspects of financial services. The first thing involved in material matters is to strengthen the law on guilt, that it may be guilty of offenses. A similar word is inserted into most of the laws here opened in the bandormins, that laws may be punished for violations, regardless of whether any individual employee or the legal guardian is proven. Of course, this is a very important law, and it is in nature that if this is not possible, it is not to be pointed to by individual authorities or employees in each case that the matter becomes very difficult. In fact, I miss the fact that in a paper with the bill, there is no further information on the past and the extent to which this has been held in the past few years. I have reason to believe that such a law was missing on currency, and it did not make it easier for the Secret Bank to deal with matters that have come up there. I also agree with the main policy selected here to try to resolve minor issues or issues that are not serious, where there is no such serious offense that they must be dismissed directly to the police, by administrative fines or governmental laws. Thus, in the lands surrounding us, people have the advantage of settling matters, finding some conclusion about it, and those who choose and want to enjoy the guilt, and thus remain free from legal cases, instead of perhaps living with the defendant's positions for years, and things can get a long way before the decision is reached. I think there was just a problem in a few of the legislations in this area that the available resources have been missing and have, for example, been missing. have been present for a long time in terms of tax violations, to negotiate a solution, and thus settle them, sometimes simply by snapping things into the past, sometimes by paying and renovating. Of course, it is wise to try to have such devices in such laws. Second, the report concludes, so I'll stick to my installation and list items in the paper with the bill, that the results are not the result, despite the fact that the committee had the intention of installing some kind of exposure directives. So it would have been possible to land this round by the same reasoning as I made of the penalty, men could have agreed on this into different financial legislations in a financial market. Of course, if there is some kind of general law that protects the informants, they will turn into financial legislation, which may be the highest level. In fact, a minister noted that in some cases it is necessary to look to the specific nature of this activity. This points to the fact that a decree is en route, working to correct the 2013 directive in neighboring countries, and planning to follow the developments in neighboring lands, but hopefully it will not be too long. Third, there are fines. It quotes the General Commission's report on the cause and cause of the fall of Icelandic banks, and it's actually done in several places in connection with this case, and it's not surprising. It's a good thing for men to have taken it to heart when they were working, but it says just what is to say that it was supposed to be so that in principle our legislation on surveillance clearances and infrastructures were comparable to what happened in neighboring countries, normal, because we had introduced most of the European rules on that subject. The conclusion of the Generalist Commission was that in itself the problem was not primarily that there was a lack of authority but that it was not used. For example, when it was considered that they had sufficient authority to enforce their surveillance and activities, it became clear that they were rarely used. V.E.G. A minister here discussed the time since the collapse, and that the UN had then sent dozens and dozens, as well as over 100 cases, to study. I believe that it was simply doing his duty there and then hand it over to the prosecution to see if the matter was going ahead. But they were using the sources, but they were doing so afterward when the words, the rest would surely have been much better if they had been alert and alert in the years before the crash and had taken action against them. Of course, considering the high risk positions in the system, considering again the results of the Allied Research Committee, it is a sad reading of how these radical positions developed. In some ways, it was a fake, that's true, but was the National SEC really so badly informed, that it was so distant from the reality, though complex, that these enormous cross - possession connections and positions formed in the system passed by them, below their nose, that men didn't realize that fathers were linked, for example? It's amazing, but that's how it was, and a number of judges were listed in the Allied Research Committee that the banks were trying to get past the rules. That's why I agree with what was said here, and I was just about to emphasize that as nice as this legal device may be, the most important thing is the use of the tools and tools. It is not enough to introduce strong surveillance clearances and post-circuits, although of course it is valid, and particularly that the rise in the level of fines has a prophylaxis, a precautionary effect, we should assume that it does to some extent and that there is a strict violation against financial legislation, but it also needs to follow a high level of surveillance, and there must not be any mold on the rules and cannot be found to ignore them as proven. There will be further work for us on these topics, as shown by the fact that this is merely a part of its implementation of recent regulations and directives from Europe in this area, and hence their full harmony is not being achieved. In particular, it's the types associated with new financial monitoring agencies, but their implementation has been sequential for the European Economic Areas for reasons known to many people here. However, it is announced that on the basis of the agreement since the previous head of the treaty, this will be recorded in the EEA Court and they believe that they have found a way past the Iceland and Norway Constitutions of those materials, and the subject will have to be fully implemented, although they may have more to do with other regulations than those listed here, i.e. The penalty and penalties. Then I would like to mention in terms of the high risk positions and the parking lot laws on well-being repairs and the financial benefits that I think are very important, and to make full use of, or at least to a considerable degree the box as it is in the European legislation. Of course, we are in charge of our own guilt, and this is a way of linking violations of high - risk risks to the maximum frame of law in the six - year penitentiary, which is considered to be a serious offense. They are indeed, indeed, for they create massive risks in addition to possible benefits that humans may be trying to achieve by hosting individual parties or allowing them to form a very large position in the relevant enterprise. Well, basically, I think it's pretty good about this part of the bill. Whether this is going to do us any good, will attract anything to build trust in the financial market that is listed here as one of the main objectives of the bill should not be said. I'm sure it helps that the legislation is clear in these matters, and everyone knows that there's neither the penalty frame nor anyone's authority to try to see that things are all right, but I have to say that it gets me in the chapters of these months, without my referring, of course, but I can't say that there's another member of the Economic and Business Committee, and I've been stirring up for the past few years that I feel both some of the things that come to us and some visitors are making a concern that there are certain things that will go the same way. A lot of times it's beginning to happen now that people come in and complain that things that have been introduced into groundwaters after a crash, given cause and for no reason what this has done to us, may be unduly strict and may now begin to relax. Clearly, the tone and frequency in certain parts of society is now clear to the fact that it is safe to go back to 2007 in various steps. This bill, I record it, of course, is not of that school, on the contrary. Here, trust is being made in various aspects of the terms and terms that relate to the seriousness of the offense or the benefits of the person or the individual. I think it's just right, and it's time that these fines are so fragile and that they do, they need to be in a logical relationship with the scope of their business or the benefit of a offense.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u27	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech that overshadowed this bill quite well for me. A similar point was made. A senator and an adversary. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar earlier during the discussion, that there had been repairs at the time of the bank collapse, but most likely they would not have been used to a sufficient degree. Surely, the tragic review is contained here in the report on the results of a report by the WHO Committee. It tells us that risks and risks laws have always been interpreted very narrowly by financial companies, and especially when they were associated with members who shared a large share in these enterprises. It also shows that financial companies have failed to respect tips, and they have also tried to skim in a conversation with the FEC. All of this eventually led to a disaster when people wanted to accept the terms found in the law. But I believe that this bill is in part a big improvement. Then I give two specifics: First, building the bouquet higher by showing those who may be guilty of wrongdoing so that they will face a much more stringent penalty than before, and second, I believe that allowing fines to be and to make sure that up to 10% of the year's success is a very serious trial facing humans who take an extremely dangerous course. I wanted to ask you what. A senator: Does he not believe that this is an improvement in this regard? [[The president calls.]] What would he say if those laws had been in effect in 2008?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u28	Mr. President. So it was, so I would testify again to the findings of the NTSB, and I'm not going to persuade myself to question it or to have a different opinion, that the FDA should have used the authority which it had more specifically, they had, when it struck the fractures or excommunications of the financial companies; it would have been taken over with mild hands. There's a lot to say about this, and it's true what we're doing here at the highest level. The minister that the banks grew in many ways over the head, and the SEC was a disaster. I also know examples that men sent misinformed information to the SEC. The F.O. didn't have the proper information from a follow-up of both bank services and insurance. Of course, there is a problem with the SEC if the information is not correct. I believe that a more broad line of punishment and control of the subsidiary laws is helpful. Perhaps it would take the hardest penalty to be in violation of the lack of proper information to the Rapporteur. In view of experience, it is what is most serious if a person hides the situation, e.g. very large risks, or try to put the matter into place, so that people close to each other are not connected, etc. Of course, these judgments take place like other things. I don't think that's especially what has to be done to ensure that you can handle something very strongly, even for things that are considered minor, but linked to the fact that you have not unfavoured the correct information, that it should be taken very strongly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u29	Mr. President. Probably hit a dog. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask on his head when he said that what may have been lacking in these laws was a tough administrative law in which financial companies on the market sent out false information. Of course, when individuals or those who have major financial assets try to conceal their relationship, it should be extremely severe and even penalties. I agree with him about that. Perhaps experience is the most important thing. I believe that with the costly experience we had in the autumn of 2008 and with the equipment found in this bill, men in the future will be better able to determine the conclusion of events that we saw happening and could not intervene because it was far beyond any possible response in the autumn of 2008. I think that in that sense there's a big, positive step in this bill. I believe, however, that it is the largest poem that it is missing from every area of the country's legislation and rules of neighboring countries, at least in Western Europe, and this is a device that can be called a specially designed process for exposure. It becomes evident when you consider how it is handled in Britain that it is of great importance and that it is very much the development of major cases, which Serious Frau Office, so that I allow myself to use the Anglo - Saxon language, has recently taken over. [[The president calls.]] It's not what. A senator of the opinion that this is even what needs to be considered in this matter? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u30	Mr. President. I believe that it would have a very high degree of protection or maintenance if a person knew that those who made aware of a misbehavior or something unfortunate would use protection, as well as the existence of a harsh penalty or other penalty laws, are meant to have such a protective effect, as it is known. Of course, it would have to be looked at as to what was broken. We should not forget that, fortunately, things have been handled that were not forbidden and helped to create these dangerous and big positions, for our legislation was extremely deficient, e.g. In terms of a clearer definition of the dominant object and in the case of a change after a crash, people could sit in many financial companies and bring confidential information between them. Now it's forbidden. No one can sit on a board but one monitoring party. We limited the loaners to owners and related parties. Some people want to relax, that's what I'm talking about. Various regulations involving regulations, surveillance, review, and other such measures have been provided from the source. This, in addition to the rules for informers, I think, would be a good addition to the penalty laws that are primarily under this issue and that have to deal with people if they don't follow laws and regulations. On the basis of this, we must always approach in advance, ensuring that the legislation itself limits dangerous decisions and questionable activities as possible, as we would like to be in the prevention even as we have a powerful firefight in case of fire. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u31	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon speaking. I was going to bring in what he first discussed in his talk, i.e. In a number of articles of the bill, authorities are being strengthened to punish lawyers for violations against financial legislation. It has naturally been so that it has been difficult, or almost impossible, to account for a legal person without having to be proved to be an assassin, a employee, or someone else in his ways. I wanted to ask you what. A senator who knows this environment well despite the complexity of its effects and whether it would have changed anything if such a record had been in the law because of possible penalties following the collapse. Then I wondered, too, if it had been, and we would have fined, where such fines would have come first in the insistence of the fallen law. I think it's interesting to wonder about it and whether this is going to be over any variable and whether it would have changed something about the collapse of banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u32	Mr. President. The only thing I think I know is that has caused problems that did not involve the law of the law that had to fine the law or direct it directly, for example. The Act of Pension or Pension Act and the alleged or possible violation of that law. Of course, the simplest way to get such a case to make the attorney himself responsible, the company itself responsible. Now this is often so that the result can be a fine against either lawyer and then a guardian or an employee to be proved guilty, he can, of course, be punished as soon as the attorney is guilty. I think that's exactly the right arrangement. Then it depends on the nature and severity of the offense, whether it is inevitable to accuse the individual if he has committed a criminal act directly but the legal body can also be guilty, so that to a certain extent the maintenance is twofold. The staff, the head of the staff, must always be prepared for this kind of examination, whether or not they have done all the things they do with the law and the company they work for, the body of law with which they work, can also get a fine and a fine. We must bear in mind that there may be an enormous amount of money here, which may result in a great deal of expected gain. I would expect fines that had been placed on an employee or person who was still present to some degree as a legal body, which could apply to the swelling farm, would have been the same as the tax or other such priorities, involving the priorities, such as the operating cost of the farm, pay, or other conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u33	Mr. President. Thanks for the answer. Now, in general, I'm going to step toward the environment of the bill. All of us know that this was the most difficult time for the financial system, and there are reasons why, of course, there is also some sort of lack of morals on this market and then a series of events that were totally out of control and that were beyond control. A report on the collapse of banks was started by the General Commission, with a number of indications coming in. Geir H. Haardes government, as well as Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, where it is. A senator was a minister of finance in the front and far, took various measures to correct the law and to get foreign and Icelandic experts to provide counseling and reviews. It's been a lot of work and a lot of writing but I have to say it--I wasn't in this committee and I've never been in a business committee, I've come in from time to time as a replacement, but I've followed this according to my ability--that it's very difficult as a general senator to have a feeling as if the law on a major financial market, there's also pension and insurance companies, so made up of adequateness. I wanted to ask you why. A senator: Does he believe that he is? Does he think we have a long way to go, and does he think the General has enough perspective over the legal process?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u34	Mr. President. Actually, I would say that the subject is a twofold challenge. Looking back on the collapse and the atmosphere over the years, two of us had to fall above all else. Another is mental or moral, it was the atmosphere, it was the attitude, it was the greed that was legally valid, and it may be difficult to change and difficult to deal with it by law. The second was so the basis for itself, holes in legislation, inadequate surveillance, or poor surveillance, and sleep - style, which, though, was linked to the first, since the whole thing was quite combined. It wasn't in fashion to have doubts about Iceland being the best in the world and on its way. What have we done since then? Yes, this work has been going on continuously ever since. The first changes occurred as early as 2009 and again in 2010 and 2011. There have been changes in financial legislation. I mentioned earlier things like limiting loans to owners and related parties. We've set up laws on financial standards. We've been trying to get it straight where there is greater responsibility for financial stability in the country. There are professional qualifications for those who are expected to be involved in financial or observational organisations. No one can sit in charge except one such person, etc. I could go on recording for a long time. Much has been done, and most is still what has been done until we start to turn this thing off again. Let us be vigilant when the first suggestions begin to relax again. Then maybe some bells should ring. The big thing I'd like to see happen in addition is separation of investment banking and business banking. I consider this to be the largest undisputed, unique case of opinion that has been discussed a lot, e.g. in two reports to the Generals, but not yet taken on a proper view, I have not heard anything from the current governments as to how they feel about them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u35	Mr. President. It is vital that individuals experience a measure of success, and in a similar way, it is vital that they also deal reasonably with the challenges of an entire nation. I believe that the bank collapse understood a deep wound for many individuals, and the Icelandic nation has also faced a great deal of work to process the experience they gained in the collapse of the bank. It was a tough time. The previous 2008 governments have tried to figure out what they have done to cope with that experience. In the past, men took up the great task of putting on the General Research Committee, which exceeded the proposed and events that led to the collapse. She even made it. that the guards had slept in a way that by the mid - 2006, they could not have been turned away from what was to come. This, of course, is an important experience. It has been found that various of the directives we recorded through the EEA Convention were defective. This points to many scientific essays as the current bank manager, Már Guðmundsson, has written and published abroad in scientific literature and delivered in question. In the time of the last government, efforts were started to extract the results of the study report where legislation could be improved in order to prevent future recurrence of events that occurred in 2008. It may never be possible, but it is at least possible to reduce the risk of doing so. As we have seen, especially in excellent terms. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's earlier son, has discovered many holes in which humans have been stopping. That work was started in his time and the two financiers who later became members of the last government. But I'd also like to say clearly that I believe that the highest. The work that was started in the time of the last government has been carried on with economic and economic ministers. This is evident from the initials he has been making that he is doing his job in this regard. We used to have this winter talk about a remarkable bill that he suggested, especially, to set rules about how to add to the bank's money. True, it follows a bill, for it also assumed that further requests would be introduced, I believe, that the council declared its will quite well with that part of the bill. But that bill, and then this bill, is a very clear step forward, and I believe that together they reduce the likelihood that they will return to a position of the pull that took place here in 2008. This bill takes various steps, which can be said to have marvelous improvements, at least from my viewpoint. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask has pointed to the immediate nature of 1 Corinthians 15: 58. G., involved in the change in currency, is a new reference that makes it possible for a large number of administrative fines to be committed in a financial institution for violations, regardless of whether a certain client of that company is going to be exposed to crime or a crime or a crime. In other words, an agency can be fined large amounts of money just for the fact that within it there was a series of events that truly caused the community damage or some individual within it. I think this is a very positive thing. Also, I believe that it is important to enter a legal ticket that is up to 10% of the success of the previous year. I wonder, though, why the amount is set up, or it marks, 10%. I asked the highest. The financial and economic secretary of the past did not have a clear answer to that question. It may be that under certain circumstances, it may be so extreme that even more excommunicating is committed to the offense being committed. Third, if you look at it together, it is possible to fine both a person in charge of an enterprise or a large holding part of an enterprise or linked enterprises as well as the companies themselves for violating these laws. Thus, it is a type of double line of punishment that is raised toward the financial enterprise that may be broken. It all matters. Fourth, there is a penalty that can be administered to an individual as well. The maximum penalty is now 65 billion. K. But I must say just as it is that I am skeptical that the right thing is to place that frame so low, set the limit so low. I believe that the UN should have a chance to fine the individual on a higher amount if it feels that it is likely to be a warning to other people and it is the system in general to profit from making such decisions. In view of the bill, it is clear that almost everything it contains is an improvement, some of which are greatly improved. I believe, for example, that the discussion on how to deal with major offenses involving the development of financial institutions, or persons in charge or major aspects of it, gives rise to a situation that may be the whole system. It is new, I believe, at least as discussed on page 18. 12 and 13, since it is understood in what way to raise the line for financial enterprises that create such a position. I think it's likely to slow down a person's risking his way into those lands in the future. We saw in the 2008 financial collapse that large groups of borrowers formed that were linked in the banks with great systematic risks. In fact, it is sad to read in the study report that at the time it seemed that the surveillance agency was becoming aware, but when comments were made to the relevant companies, according to the report used in the report, it only led to a verbal debate with the Rapporteurs and to try as they could to avoid changing their behaviour or changing their property ties. That's why I think it went the way it went. It is of utmost importance that it is made absolutely clear that if any evidence of such interconnections is taken very strongly. The 12 laws that should be changed, or almost all, list several principles that harmonize with any of these laws. I have to say, in view of the already occurring discussion, it may be easy to say that it is missing into that list, for example, that the tip that came out of the mouth. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon of a violation that had the right information to do in this list should be at home entirely. Also, I believe that in the course of events that may include fractures to the point of building up very risky, large, related positions, it is so serious that it should be one of the things listed specifically, although it can be said to be one of the factors. of 2 Timothy 3: 1 - 5. g., both in the letter a and also in the letter d, it may fall under. But I believe that it should be taken up rather by referring it quite specifically. I mention one thing, even though it doesn't matter very much, but I think it's a matter of opinion whether or not to use administrative fines, whether or not they're committed deliberately or unintentionally. Of course, penalties are also to be used for recklessly committed gross offenses, but I do believe that the intentional offense should result in much more severe penalties than is necessarily transgressions. Of course, what I've said in the past during this discussion is that I feel like the greatest poem on the bill is, of course, what is stated in the report to the group assigned to examine four aspects of the bill. A minister concluded that one of these factors, i.e. Law on exposure, it should not be at home in this bill. In the article on page 19. 8 notes that the committee feels that it is right to wait for the legal adjustment in that area and to monitor the development of cases in neighboring lands. Is it specifically indicated that Norway and Sweden are working on legislation that should aim to adopt specific EU directives and we will need to record later. In fact, I find this wonder, especially in Sweden, which is changing their legislation for the better, already find very good legislation that protects those who want to be evicted, such as in the area of finance or in the surveillance institutions, and literally makes up a process where people can offer it safely without having any kind of punishment or revenge on the part of those who are superior to them. This, I must say, is an example and should, of course, have been recorded as Swía's case, instead of acting as the working group would suggest that you stay on course and wait to see how the Swedes are going to change this. They already have laws that would bring great improvement. In turn, if you examine how this has developed in other countries, you may find that the British do this more closely. It suggests that since 1999 there have been laws that made it possible for certain operators to set up a process for financial institutions where informers and those who want to promote information that might be a law or could lead to harm to society, to show that the rules were ignored, to promote such information, and to enjoy protection. We know, unfortunately, that experience shows that those who take on such national action for society often suffer under all kinds of restrictions and even informal protests. Often, a person is directly expelled from his job or forced from a job or prevented him from getting a career. In the information I have learned about this, it is reported that in 2013, only one officer received more than three thousand information from such informants, and although only a few of them have led to the appearance of a criminal offense, this was relevant. And not long ago, a special committee, a British Parliament committee on good banking practices, made specific suggestions that all were made, all looking to protect the informants and encourage them to make information. In fact, in the United States there was at one time also a system where financial incentive was given to encourage people to produce such information. The British committee found that this was not a reason for us to do so. But this is the main problem of this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u36	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator before the speech and who can agree with the last thing he did, the fault that has been attributed to the discussion of this case today, and to exposure, that it is not really beyond the fact that it is not addressed in this matter. Hv. In his earlier speech, a senator reported on the level of fines and felt that 65 million were too low. That's what we're talking about in the 7th C.E. that the fines laid on individuals may study between 100,000 and 65 million and then return to the legal entity from 500 thousand to up to 10% of the total. Business year. What do you think? Then a senator's conduct on the minimum legal level, i.e. the 500 thousand? There are now laws different sizes and all of that. Then, because this was a matter of deliberate or unintentional wrongdoing, the senator concluded that there should be a harder penalty for willful offenses. Does he not worry that at some point, this can become appreciated? The guilty person can maintain the protection that in the end an indecision can occur, i.e. that the evaluation will be made in such a way as to be done deliberately? The budget is 65 million per person, with a minimum of 500 thousand at law. [[The president calls.]] What level of fines does he consider to be desirable for individuals?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u37	Mr. President. There's a policy in this bill that I declared earlier today that I really agree. It is the use of administrative laws, the use of fines rather than prison punishments. But I say so, and I agree with the highest. Secretary of finance that in the case of very gross offenses, you may be inclined to use prison punishments because they are often the greatest rod. We agree on that. In this discussion, I have tried to dig for the source of this amount. There was no clear answer. Then I'd like to believe. I believe a senator should have his hands free on this matter. I don't think there should be any upper limit. I believe that if the SEC thinks that a certain individual who has been guilty of a gross offense without the fact that he is going to be in prison punishment, he can and may go over 65 million. I could give a lot of reasons why they should be allowed. In many cases, it is a very wealthy person who has the potential to break laws in order to profit from large amounts of money. If the FEC results were that it should go higher than this amount, I think the surveillance should be done. Similarly, if it were the result of an SEC that a legal body should pay more than 10% of its resources, the Agency must appreciate it so that an appropriate company or agency could still continue working. If so, it should be the UN assessment. If unloved, the person will likely be able to bring him to a higher decision. About 500 you. K. In the case of an agent, I believe that it should only be the FESI assessment for material reasons. [[The president calls.]] This may be a very minor offense.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u38	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. In itself, I find pleasure in this bill that there are additional sources of surveillance not particularly supported by the Independence Party, rather talking about reducing the so - called monitoring industry. On page 18. 11 You will see, by permission of the President: The cross-cutting of guiltys is aimed at ensuring that relative agreement exists between the pressures of the management fines on the legislature and its size, but may result in a higher level of fines than those reported in the current law. It is said that the management board will carefully step on the ground and that the state of surveillance will have to evaluate when there is a prerogative for such offenses and that it will be discussed with other northern nations and how the EU state will use the authority. I think it's quite ecstatic in itself, in spite of the limit and minimum in here. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on something else, which appears in section 4 on the rise of a legal penalty frame for financial enterprises to be considered to provide further changes in financial and economic legislation within the financial and economic institutions that are to be supported by the financial system. I'd like to ask you what. In this context of the subject's speculation, what he thinks is left behind, and outside the revelation, he needs to further strengthen the legislation of the financial market here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u39	Mr. President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator always has to make some very estimating decisions in the SEC when it comes to making the amount of fines. I don't see any specific ways around it. Of course, it can be encouraged by such laws. I believe, though, that what was missing in the bill is the list I had in my speech earlier and is found in most of the changes about the 12 songs that were being changed. This may be an even more accurate list. I pointed to two points in that subject. For other changes proposed by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, I think that the report applies to the rules for a new three-fold financial control that the European Union has agreed on and that Iceland may have to adopt but is very difficult because it involves the intervention of foreign power and may not completely allow it to be permitted by the Constitution. For example, I believe that the tools proposed by the Icelandic government and that we have become members of the United States without being discussed at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. This means, in effect, that the European Union budget will crash the EEA wall at an institution that will be installed there and then set out. I think it's a hide-and-seek and it's much better to change the constitution and allow other equipment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u40	Madam President. I'm just going to discuss this bill to legalize the laws on the repairs of financial market violations. I think of it as coming to the news for the weekend that when specific matters were discussed and sometimes none were discussed, few people were in the Assembly Hall. A man tried to carry volleyball from members of the council, that they could be in several places, but when I first came in to the council, I always felt a little strange how few were in the council hall when it came to such matters. money or some financial material. I can say with what. paritaprevir Sigrídi Ingibjörg Sigríður, the daughter of Ingadóttir, when she spoke earlier about the issues involved in society's financial affairs, of course, there are issues that we need to learn a little bit about and pay attention to, the law frame there, because it's all very important to us. What you're looking at is a good bill, and it's a good idea to see that a considerable point is quoted from the WHO report, for that is, yes, a document we should discuss here even more, and take up more frequent discussions and make more improvements in matters in harmony with it than we already have. As we have seen here only today, much of what was criticized for the collapse of the financial system has been met. We need to keep on doing what came out of that grand assignment and learn from the experience that came from a bank collapse. I think we senators should give more attention to the business of the state than perhaps to a few people. Of course it's complicated, but it's a challenge. I'm gonna go into this bill as it happens and try to figure out what it's all about. In 7. G., involved in a change in financial law, with subsequent changes, list to whom to take into account decisions about government guilty. The above article discussed whether governments should be comparable whether it was a deliberate or reckless offense and the above - mentioned senator who felt that the offenses committed should still be taken lightly rather than recklessly. In itself, it is possible to agree, even though, as I said before, at some point. It's good for this bill, as shown in 9th. g., that guiltys of violations of the law can be prosecuted, i.e. if a person in the company or an institution has offended them and performs a criminal and illegal act in the operation of the legislatures, the defendant may be fined. Here, in itself, it's being pulled into a hole and it's fine. Comments discuss the actual project with the bill, which was listed in four points. It was reviewing the money of government fines and money fines, wondering if it was a basis for enforcing legal authority in order to question guiltys, whether to set the rules of revelations, and whether it was a reason to strengthen the authority of law to punish lawyers for violating the laws that the committee should consider. As we noted earlier, most of what came out there was suggested, except for what was about to be revealed. It has, in itself, been very detailed, and the minister felt it would be okay for the bill to pass, despite the lack of any changes in exposure. Of course, there are conflicting views. It is very important that we have tools and tools to take advantage of it, as we know from the discussion of such matters as this. The tax bill and the like, for the sake of public interest. We don't have it all, because changes are not made here, at least not yet. Then there is reason to consider monitoring and repairs because this is the case, as I said earlier, a report by the World Committee on Causes and Falling Banks. It says here that there were sufficient surveillance clearances for the UNECE and the NTSB reports that it considers that too few cases have actually been handled with authority, including the end of the case. It's a government fine. Thus, it may be asked, " Is there anything else here to strengthen the fact that the SEC is more effective now than in the past to deal with these issues? ' Did the problem of persons change or, as we had come in earlier, were they really able to deceive so terribly, as it really happened? What makes society all so united in the situation and even a follow-up such as the SEC that we'd like to believe a little bit that a stand-up doesn't cover that project? This, of course, is important, as is the case here because we need to build trust and credibility in the financial market. We see that it is still very broken, and all financial functions and banks are particularly limited in everyday life. Then we are told that the process takes less time, that it is true, and that its purpose should be achieved by having it high enough. Then we will see the need to reevaluate regularly and to reevaluate at the highest level. In his speech, a minister mentioned that it was natural for such a thing to be done. I think that would be right in view of the trend in society. It is referred to as the introduction of these types, but this is, of course, working with the EEA types, will take time, but it is emphasised that it should still try to synchronize these frames with as much as possible the European Economic Area to prevent moral problems so that companies do not leave the country, choose to work in a particular EEA State rather than anything else where there are less repairs. This may be thought of because it also refers to waiting and observing what our neighbors are doing. It has been attributed to the lack of goods of as many as 10% of the total annual management year. I'm sure it's as good a standard as any of them, though here it hasn't been answered how the percentages came about or what other sums are on the bill. In itself, a minister could not answer that question. However, this is a significant increase. I think maybe that's what we need to look at primarily. This includes a lot more people than ever before, so that is what may matter. We know this 1 0 percent rule, it's in competitive law, and maybe it's from there and nowhere else. That's one of the things mentioned in the bill, i.e. that this rule is known there, and the corrosion may therefore be estimated from there. In fact, it is said that the Committee considered whether other northern nations have adopted comparable regulations in their legislation and a comparable rule of well - being has been found in the Swedish legislation on finance for quite some time. It is said that the socialisation should ensure a relative relationship between the lawyers and their sizes in order not to cause inequities, probably between those who might so unfortunately be fined. What may matter when you think about whether this is ecstatic or not ecstatic, that it needs to be equal. Of course, I'm glad, as I said earlier, that the independents put in an extra check warrant here. This is not necessarily what they have prepared for them. So it's only positive that they record it. It is then spoken of raising the line of punishment to six years for what is thought to be the most serious and broad - scale offenses. It is the same penalty as the exchange of stocks, so the criteria are expected to come from there. It is said that there will be further changes in financial legislation within the Ministry of finance to strengthen the infrastructure of the system. I think we need to be different and alert. I'm saying, unfortunately, there seems to be too many things going on in the same old way, I'll name the bills and issues of the Economic and Business Committee, including about bank booths and stuff. We need to be alert that those who are reaching out for what was said at their party convention will not let independents get away with handling such cases from the committee. It may go contrary to what is stated here, to try to strengthen the financial box, and part of it is not increasing banks and not fitting into society's discussion today. A respectable president. As for the warnings about the FDA, that they should have used their sources and if they are now, if that's what it takes, I hope it is. Of course, after a collapse, other cases came to the prosecutor, although not all of them ended in judgment or in some manner, but they certainly did. Maybe that's what matters. This should further strengthen the monitoring. At the end of what the bill is supposed to do and I hope that it will not be changed, the aim is to improve the development of financial management and control, to promote resources, to create a solid financial market. We need to create credibility in this environment and show that we are watching as an authority even though we are in an arm length from a situation, we still need to show ourselves as a national body that we are aware that there may be some evidence that things are developing in a bad direction. That's why we need mine knowing to be even more on the Watch, and I think this bill is part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u41	A respectable president. Thank you. A member of the body of elders has a fine and extensive speech. I've stopped at the bill in what way it is returned by the Ministry because it says that the committee who was assigned to appoint or win a plan that the bill was to go over several factors, review the money of the management fines, whether they should be raised, whether it was a reason to enact guiltys, and whether there was a reason for strengthening legal rights to punish law against violations of the law. In any case, the Committee finds out that this is the case and makes suggestions for the adjustment there in the bill that seems to be a good idea to me in general. The point, however, is that among the committee's orders, it was also a question of the laid-up rules, or what may be English is called '-whistle blowing', in legislation. The committee will provide it in a very subtle way, to say no more, or to the minister, of the report, which says: In Denmark, Britain, Liechtenstein, and Malta, the Netherlands, the European Commission examined the legislation on exposure. After this study and considering that Norway and Sweden are now working to legalize the regulations of the 2013/36/ESB directives on exposure, the committee felt that the country's legislation should be delayed and the country's development in neighboring countries should be observed. I'd like to ask the senator, "What does she think of this?" There is good reason to believe that laws contain laws that protect informers in the case of financial violations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So I wanted to ask the senator what her opinion is that the committee in this way will be made clear in the light of the commission she was making. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. It is this one factor that we feel is of great importance to us right now, especially when we have been dealing with information outside, and the nation calls for our buying, etc. This is something special, as the senator points out, that there's nothing left to it. V.E.G. Minister said this was coming in the fall. In view of the fact that we have been discussing this aspect of the matter, it is really incomprehensible. to receive data that can shed light on hidden coins in various places. Then it is very special that a minister accepts the case as it is in this setting so that we have tools and tools to deal with and make use of when there is obviously a public service, as in the collapse of the bank. This is where it needs to be fenced. Sometimes, because it speaks of observing developments in neighboring lands, we as a nation want to be on the lead. Because we are alone in boasting about the near bankruptcy of a nation, we are also required to be on the lead in this regard and to enforcate it. We should not necessarily have to wait to see what happens abroad.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u43	A respectable president. Because of all this as a boy. A senator in charge of this area gives me a little Spanish to see that in the Ministry of finance, there is the least reason to trust in innovation in legislation in this area. Of course, we've been discussing some aspects of exposure a bit often here at the council during the winter and, among other things, in the light of what happened. In view of the proposed tax investigator's fee, a senator offers information on Icelandic property in foreign taxpayers. For example, it may be possible for defenders of such individuals to insist that sources are not conclusive to make good use of the data. It is also clear that in the case of Germany, Germany has gone very far to open up the data, thus defending the informers, it is not even required that those who sell the data have the authority to sell them, but the government may purchase stolen data. So it is not even necessary for the seller to issue a receipt. So I would like to wonder if the senator could not see the reason why we specifically review it on a committee in what way it could be improved. I understand that experts feel that it is normal to wait for new legislation from Norway and Sweden, which, of course, are examples of informing protection in other countries. I'm asking if there's any reason to go over it on the Committee to correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u44	Mr. President. In view of the discussion we've had here, such as why. A senator, both winter and long before, mentioned the issues of losing money abroad, and somehow we need to deal with this. That's one of the things that must come to the committee, such as why. A senator mentioned. I don't believe it. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, president of the Economic and Business Committee, has been sitting here listening to the discussion all day and has heard, in the case of those here who have spoken, that this is one of the things people do, and not misappreciate. This is of utmost importance when it comes to exposure to money that we have had strong suspicion of being there and have received confirmation. I haven't exactly formed an opinion as to whether we should go the way the Germans have done, i.e. no need to publish a receipt for what the informant offers or to have the right circumstances to give up. I've now seen that when you're exposing something, you've got evidence in your hands that you may not be meant to have, which is why you need to secure your identity. I think that's part of the fact that we have to make this protection. I certainly hope, because I think there is so much to play, that we need to be stopped in that hole. And if the committee finds out that there is some kind of compromise before the informant law becomes a reality, that in itself is just fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u45	V.E.G. President. Because of the discussions that took place between two o'clock. Parliaments on exposure and protection for those who wish to expose secrets associated with financial breakthroughs were referred to Sweden. It is true that a bill with the bill shows that the committee that had to do this, including the recording of such laws, makes his excuse that they are changing the law in Sweden and that they want to wait for that conclusion. Then I feel that it is necessary to make it clear that Sweden is an age - old law, one of the oldest, which includes protection from the sources of information, which is an improvement for the overall population but may not always be legal. Today, in its power, Swedish citizens can present information relating to, for example, alleged violations in financial institutions without risking some form of punishment, which is strictly forbidden by the Swedish law against the informer. But I'm going to say what. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir should take it easy to be happy that the Independence Party is taking the initiative here to counter the obligations of intensive surveillance. Actually, the only reason I remember it. A senator has read the pages of the Bible. 10, which makes it clear that in accordance with the 2013 European Union rules it is necessary for Member States to ensure that organisations are allowed to challenge, which was the very opposite of these words. Senator. I'd like to ask the following questions about our verbal exchange earlier today. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed with me that maybe there should not be any maximum in law like this? [[The president calls.]] You see, it was when I asked the highest part. Minister for finance whether this is due to the EU. [[The president calls.]] He wasn't so sure about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u46	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for the answer. I found it interesting to hear what he said about Sweden, for as I read this here I would think -- certainly, it's the law of taking up a certain EU directive about exposé, but--now I'm doing like Ministers might do here today--if so knows why. A senator, then, what is really going on with this particular EU legislation in Sweden, if this has been in the law for decades, such as the year. A senator said that was so? I'd like to know. Then we do not necessarily have to wait in that light, i.e. This has been carried out, although this particular EU directive is under it. With regard to the guilt regulations, i.e. Whether or not to be free. In itself, I may not have wondered what it could mean if the SEC had absolutely free hands to determine government guilt. I tend to agree that I have some number inside because I feel that it might be handled in a way that would double the guilt, etc. So I think we're trying to get a hold of them, at least, so they're really relevant, or they're meaningless. This is the first time I've had a fit, I think, at least - maybe there's something else in the committee's coverage that's better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u47	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator internalizes me by what kind of Sweden is changing its laws in order to protect informers even more. I can't answer it differently than that Sweden, as nearly all European countries, is changing their laws. In 2013 there were 16 countries in Europe who had some kind of law that included some protection from informers. However, following a large debate at the Council of Europe and then at the European Parliament in the autumn of 2013, it was agreed that at that time a small resolution was adopted as it was directed to the European Commission to set forth work to push down the directives and regulations that would require all the states and including the EEA countries, to adopt their legislation accurately on how, first, should be able to make public information possible to communicate with some kind of order or observational method within financial institutions. Second, if he chooses to do so, he will make sure that the person he did would do so anonymously. Third, even if he chose not to do so anonymously, it would be absolutely certain that he would not subject himself to any leather, he would not be forced out of work, it would not hinder his career. Because of this, all the countries are recording it. The reason for this group to come to a different conclusion and would like to wait, I feel very obvious. There have been differences in the group, and there have been no conclusions as to how, perhaps, the purchase or the discussion of tax information that was received may not have been legitimate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-04-101.u48	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for this explanation. I agree with that and I say again what I said earlier, I think if we have models, away from this specific directive, the committee might find some conclusion to go somewhere between the two of us before the bill of informants reaches out. I can agree with that too. A senator mentioned earlier what was involved with the tax information and other such things as, this could have been the reason why people did not get together, and in accordance with the committees that have been appointed on the part of the government many each, they in such important matters have not been making consistent conclusions. We see this in the everyday life of those with the highest authority in society, the highest. Prime and financial minister, that very different priorities and interpretations seem to be on a wide range of factors regarding large aspects of society's administration. This may be just one thing that might have happened there. I hope, of course, that the committee reviews what led to the decision - making committee and not relying on making any suggestion. It's actually going to be interesting, and I'm thinking like I'm saying that those senators there will make sure there's a question about it.
