ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u1	Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 423, on a vote for the UN General Assembly, and on a nuclear stand from the Steinunn Þóra service of the Year's Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u2	After a discussion about the activities of the council until the end of the year, the meeting will be stopped. 1 1:30. That's a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u3	A respectable president. I've often ended my compliments at the highest. Minister of the state for the way it has increased transparency of police arms policy and the publication of this Regulation. But I have to describe a complete dissatisfaction with the answers she gave last night we ask questions from me and why. paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for the proposed changes in the arms of the police in the capital area. She said that it was not changing any rules, but she did not answer the question, What is the change in arms in police cars around the country or in the capital area? Last night, I ended up in that strange situation of pursuing the Minister of Internal Affairs on Facebook to ask about these matters, and this is a perfectly unacceptable situation. The police's weapons and the access of public police to weapons are a fundamental factor in how we secure the safety of the city, and there is no correlation between police arms and minor crimes. The decision to make weapons more accessible to police generals is macropolitical, and at the General Assembly of the Icelanders, and it is not possible to be discussed at the General Assembly. Therefore, I would like to ask for a special discussion at the highest level. Minister of state, as soon as next week, I think it's normal for me to have all the explanations for the table. It is not normal for the press to inform us of the punitive use of the police and to express himself to the press on a greater scale than the local minister of the jury expressed himself at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. There is nothing to say that we improve our safety by increasing the access to weapons by police, and it is important to keep in mind that a law enforcement weapon is not properly equipped and that there are clear rules and that there are general knowledge of how to reduce the safety of the citizens but not to increase that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u4	President. It's time to go to the highest. The Minister of Education is going to submit a special bill for a drop from a radio charge. Of course, this is an enormously important message to the State Radio, as well as to the nation and to all lovers of the Kingdom News and to want to protect its roles and activities. Today, individuals and other members are flocking into the U.S. TV advertising season to encourage us who are here to take this support position with the State Radio and then to represent the prime minister of education. For that reason, I'd like to say that I want to encourage the highest. Secretary of education and culture to impress on this subject. I would like to encourage the members of the board to settle the case quickly and safely so that we can win the case for a year's time, and I would like to promise that there will be a huge, cross - political support for it. Thus, as VG members, we will work out every method, because this is a case that is supposed to be having political differences between government and government opposition. I'd especially like to welcome these plans and encourage the highest. A minister to the importance of this subject and, of course, hope that we will get the bill for processing at the General of the First.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u5	A respectable president. I agree with my last speaker. Let us be a guard of the State Radio and show an active cross - political stand in this hall. Today, however, I would like to encourage the members of the Parliament, especially the watchmen of this chamber, to go to the movies and see a picture called Ásdís Thoroddsen. It shows without a mask the bad effects of the eating system over the land and the people who live in it. It is about Flatton, a Western TV, where road and fishing were full of flowers and eggs, and it was all well - mannered until one day in 2007, the refugees woke up to the sale of food, and half the population had lost their livelihood. This is a picture showing the people's struggle for survival, their failure, and their hope despite severe trauma. It exposes the harshness of unfair rules but at the same time shows hard work and courage in frustrated situations. V.E.G. The chairman of the council, The Einar K.. The Son of Guðfinnsson, is using a single feature of the film as he attends a campaign meeting with desperate people but provides limited answers to which the peddler system is speaking. By the end of the film, there has been another shock to the space, with almost complete hopelessness. This film would have to be a mandatory view of all who are involved in politics, but unfortunately it was only two years old. Councilmen at this show, me and you. Magnúsdóttir This picture is a lesson in how not to write play rules in our society. And if they have a conscience, then they must see, after they have watched this tragic exposé that we must change this unjust greeting system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u6	Mr. President. I agree with what. For a senator to watch this film, a documentary on Flatty that was taken on about six years ago, it sucks because it sums up what has been going on in radios wide and wide around the country, and men, members of Congress, have given no real effort to benefit. There are eternal patches offered to the people on TV. Though members of Congress admit the problem, they are discouraged because they are always the big and strong ones that have settled in the system. It's the interest watch that's in charge and the settlements are bleeding. I agree that it should be the duty of all members of Congress to see this documentary on Flats, which shows how this community has suffered in a few years from the use of fish work and production that created about 120 jobs for what it is today, 15 jobs created by a Based agency. This is sad. I just got back from a meeting where I've been discussing how to divide or reassign the small parts intended for this operation, 5.3% of the divided catch in the saying system. On one more trip, it is about to stir a piece of nail that is nothing. The little things are left to bite, the settlements that bleed to the consequences of the saying system. I'm just saying here and now that the senators have to start taking a turn and look at the problem that's going to get worse if they don't just care about the country's settlements, if there's just something more important. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to encourage everyone to go see this picture.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u7	V.E.G. President. The whole assembly is the honor of the elderly and the wanton, saying why. paritaprevir At the beginning of that HelgiHjörvar at the beginning of this week, we discussed the activities of the council. I agree with that. I'm gonna reiterate it, and I'm going back to the members of the board, and, of course, all members of Congress, to try to work together that we're changing the budget for 2015, we're going to get an agreement to meet the menial compensation for the elderly and the desperate like all the dressies and now the Kjara Court for the state's top officials have discussed how recovery is done. It seems to me that the elderly and the poor are the only members left in society. They don't get their pay back, as they've been written, and I think it's embarrassing. It is beneath us even now that we are doing so well in the society that we have successfully restored after the collapse. I insist that it was always the intention of all the generals who had to cut down on the financial breakdown that there would be a return as soon as possible to enter society. Now it is. When we are discussing these matters now, members of the council - and I specifically encourage members of the council to discuss it in their councils. Now is the time to discuss whether it is reasonable to correct the interests of older ones and to reinvigorate them, as so many times have been discussed before. They have this right. They will remain, and that will be a disgrace to all of us if this is not corrected. Besides, I'd like to say, sir, a respectable president, that I think we generals are supposed to step on the deck and say that we agree to a universal challenge to the government that the United Nations Convention on the rights of the disabled people will be accepted as everyone first because Iceland is becoming the only person left in it, and that's a disgrace. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u8	Mr. President. Likely, most of us are in fresh memory when Iceland voted in the United Nations for a proposal to ban nuclear weapons. Answers to the highest. Foreign Ministers were on the way to support the existing disarmament agreements, which are under the cover of agreements that the nuclear powers play out and renew their nuclear cages, where older equipment is replaced by new and more powerful weapons, which certainly have fewer numbers. The United States, Russia, Britain, and China have all proclaimed a massive renewal, despite the fact that the current disarmament agreements have come to the end of these weapons. In view of this, much of the world's nations have concluded that they need to go further. For this reason, drastic suggestions on global bans were presented. As a representative of the worldwide campaign for elimination of nuclear weapons has indicated in a telegram to all seated members of the council, the date will be December 7th. Give me a new chance to make up for the misunderstanding. That vote is not to be held under a commission like the first but to the General Assembly of the United Nations. It will be followed by how an Iceland representative will vote for that vote. It's a minimum requirement for Iceland to sit by, like the NATO Nation of Norway last time, not to work directly against nuclear disarmament. Of course, the greatest amount of waste would be to support the matter, as Swedish brothers have. At a meeting of the State Department of State, I have made these views my position as representatives of the State Department, and I certainly hope that this will be listened to. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u9	President. All you can say is that you agree with all those who have expressed themselves here today. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Steinunn Árnadóttir Eagledot, it was a good thing to feel that we were taken to the Foreign Affairs Committee yesterday when we suggested that men consult a body before making decisions like this. Thus, it was very well and thoroughly promoted by all members of the committee that it was important to exercise in action and on table, not merely in word regarding nuclear disarmament. All I wanted to do was make the subject of the struggle for improving the quality and correction of the ideals of the elderly and the desperate. Now we've been trying the council since I remember, at least I have tried to stand in order to ensure that the choice of disability and the elderly would be corrected and corrected. I think it's very important that, as you say, those who need support or paid from a insurance agency get into the system very often. All too often, the system is not helping it; it is just defending itself. I challenge the members of Congress to study Pirate's dissatisfaction proposal for civil pay and to see if it is not possible to bring it into the program so that the cause can be discussed, not just the patches, how we can fix a damaged system. At the same time, I challenge other senators to see the documentary that was discussed. Unfortunately, I couldn't find her yesterday, but I'm very interested in seeing her and I'm excited that more people can see her, too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u10	V.E.G. President. The latest inflation test yesterday suggests that the annual rate of inflammation in Iceland is now 2%. In other words, it is under the prices of the Sea Bank once more, and it has been known for longer than before. There is no evidence of it, and there is no evidence that in the next few weeks and months inflation will result in a significant return of the current level of goods. The Icelandic dollars has been funded by the largest coins of about 9% in the last 12 months, yet it still needs to be turned into a warehouse despite the good example of several companies who dropped their prices, such as IKEA and Bronous. More is needed. It's amazing that this is happening, in fact, in spite of the fact that Iceland's Sellabana throws on an inflation block by holding up the controls that are unknown. As I say, however, there is evidence that prices could be held for several months. I would also like to point out that now the oil companies in the country have two discounts per month, indicating that there is room for a constant reduction in the price to be replaced by this proposal twice a month. That is why I urge merchants who have not paid the crown's price money to do so, and I also want to direct it to consumers in the country that they watch what shops have already done, which shops have just dropped prices because the U.S. dollars have grown up, direct trades to them during Christmas Christmas season, and thus awards merchants who do well but punish the others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u11	Mr. President. One of the first ones to be met in the spring of 2013 when we began our post-election work was a report on trust in the Council, which included about 80% of those who responded to the weakest General Assembly because of how the conversation between members of Congress would be, how we treated one another, and because of the general lack of respect that the senators seemed to show to one another. Instead of discussing matters objectively and reasoning, we would be having unnecessary arguments and a fit of shit. As far as I know and as the last research has shown, we haven't been able to raise this trust in a lot. It may also be because this report showed that we are much more involved, and those involved in this survey seem to believe it, about their own interests and interests, rather than about what really matters in society. According to the last poll presented, e.g. at a mass-skilled meeting that I've made here in the speech chair this week at the Quantum Community last Saturday, over 95% of those who answered, even the rich people of Gardour, who were about to find that older citizens and poor people should get a raise just as much as the rest of society would. Are we listening to it? Are we going to fix it? Is it in the budget now? I agree with the members of Congress who have mentioned here that we should focus on this, listen to society's heartbeat. What do people want? It wants this increase, and 90% of the people want to raise their money in the health system, as it was the survey made last year by the Piratars. Are we listening to it? No, I don't think so. I feel that during this terms, most of us have been working to increase the interests of those who have more at the expense of those who have less. I challenge the council once again to show it now during the two weeks that we're still on our side, we'll listen to the people, and we'll fix this. [[The president calls.]] If it's not possible now, I don't think it's ever possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u12	A respectable president. I had two masks when I read words from the top. Minister of well-being to discuss the limitations of freedom of expression. Yeah, I think you're right about the highest level. Minister of welfare that we need to discuss whether or how we will limit one of the basic foundations of democracy, which is essential for our having informed conversation. V.E.G. A health minister specifically introduced the need for a hatred talk on the Internet. As the Piratars and I have often pointed out, it's running the Internet like herding cats and there's nothing about to happen, neither in theory, nor in real life. The Internet behaves in such a way that it cannot be controlled the way you want to control other people. We have repeatedly pointed out that the only weapon against expression that we don't want to be on the surface is to cut off the hatred speech by expression. I would like to use this opportunity to point to a campaign held by the European Council for the past three years by No Hite Speek or no hatred talk. In this regard, they try to show where hatred was taking place on the Internet and try to prove that by talking about things, by learning, we can learn more, and it reduces the hatred speech or the expression we find undesirable. I agree that some expressions are rather ugly, they can't be overlooked. But we need to discuss it, don't try to shut it down.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u13	A respectable president. I'm very interested in what they're doing in Congress and how they are in the North countries and how we can improve our affairs here. I've felt that we were spending a lot of time discussing matters at the Assembly Hall, and the last example is the case with the Developmental Agency. If it were up to me to be a good counselor, I would like to see more committee work because I often find the work really good there. Now that we've completed our work on a government financial committee that went very well, there was no great disagreement. I would like to give extra emphasis on committee work, and then we are not supposed to settle matters in a very serious situation because of causing a lot of fuss and debate at the council, that's just the way it is. I have a feeling that somewhere else in the North countries, I think I'm aware of that, that there's no lawsuit in the conference hall. They've been discussed in advance, and they've come to compromise. I feel that this process is really exhausting, and it's not to our credit, so I'm just trying to talk about it, and maybe more people come and talk about how we can change it. For example, we could open the meeting more, so we take the discussion in committees, where all the classes have their representatives, and there are visitors. I understand, for example, that in Norway almost only votes for votes. I'm not recommending it, I like the conference discussion, but I like the arrangement we're having, I think it's a waste of time, and we have to start thinking seriously about how we're gonna have it in the future and try to change it. This is up to us, 63 senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u14	Mr. President. A discussion of sexual abuse, rape, group rape, courts, the role of police, the role of lawyers, the role of the health system, what's true, what's false, what's in gray areas, what's in a bit of a coal - black area, no one's missed. There have been protests, large reports in the media, and social media. Many find it intense, others view it as perfectly normal, and the courts of the street are usually involved. I think it's better that we as a community are in the place where we talk about unpleasant things. Because it's the way things are going, they don't go anywhere just because you look the other way, they just go in the back of your head and you feel them and you can't see them. It is far more successful to face the problem directly and go through it and change and improve it. When it comes to sexual misconduct, I ask myself, " What am I going to need to change? ' I don't want to see society going back to the place where violence, no matter what its nature, was silenced. In the power of that silence, violence spread without incident. I therefore demand that we in this room face all the counts that have been closed up and that we carefully examine whether there is anything in the legislation or in the implementation of it that encourages the survival of violence. To me, this opinion has to be quite universal, covering the way we teach our children and all in the police investigation of sexual immorality. I call for the establishment of a group of people from all categories to work on this. I know there are a lot of people here thinking the same thing, and I know that this group is out in the community, and he's willing to work with us. There are both experts and those who are working on this series of issues far and wide. If this produces suggestions for making changes, it is our duty to make changes because so many aspects of society's use of violence. We've all accepted the role of protecting our public interests. I don't know anything more important in that context than fighting for open and violent society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u15	V.E.G. President. Now word is coming out of Seysland that Iceland's Landsbank is closing its branch and moving its activities down 3.2 points. Three women have been assigned to these duties, leaving one position to move into public housing, i.e. To the businessman, and is intended to be open at the time. 1,2 summarise5 daily. These three women who recently learned that they were losing their job - two of them will have a year and a half to retire, and this is a very difficult situation for women of this age. This may be one of the things we are dealing with that there is no respect for employees over a certain age, and I don't talk about when it comes to cutting down and even destroying certain rights for government employees. The town council of Seyster has concluded on these measures. With the permission of the president, I will read here the first part of the town council's conclusions regarding changes in the activities and services of the National Bank: I am sorry that the governor of the National Bank plans to reduce his activities at Seysardir, as has been, to reduce his ministry. This is a serious matter, and I challenge the Bank of Landsave, which is making good profit, to revise this position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u16	Mr. President. I'd like to call the attention of a World Congress to what is stated in the Morning newspaper, which quotes the BBC as saying that Amnesty International warned that in preparation there are mass executions in Saudi Arabia, the aim is to execute dozens of prisoners in one day. Likely 52 will be executed soon, including those who participate in protests against national governments. I encourage the Icelandic government, Amnesty, Iceland, and Iceland to make a difference because of their planned efforts, which are worse than words can describe. I want to describe, as most people have done, how worried I am about the situation in this part of the world, in the Middle East. Last night, the president of France and the Russian President had a meeting in which they decided to work together against ISIS, Syria, despite what came up when the Turkish army shot down a Russian military jet, but a word contradicts that statement. The situation in this area is extremely serious, so countries have to lie down on one to try to reach their landing and solution. In this way, however, I rejoice that the French and the Russians are talking to each other, for the situation between Russia and other Western countries has not been so good lately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u17	V.E.G. President. Recently, much has been discussed about sexual crime in the community, and it is important that we approach that discussion with calmness and seek ways to improve our social situation. We've chosen the legal system for humans to be innocent until proven guilty. That means and on the basis is the thought that proof requirements are rich and that we would rather have some who have committed a crime, some failure, go free than have innocent men found themselves in the need to serve penalties in prison. There are countries that choose to go other ways, countries that we do not normally compare with, such as Iran and other countries. I don't think anyone would suggest we search it, but there's a lot we can do better in the justice system, our system isn't perfect. What I believe is to strengthen those who study sexual immorality, i.e. Police are more supportive of the prosecution so that the prosecution can take better care of these matters. Now it is said that the district attorney should put these matters first, but when it comes to 50% of all the matters given by the office, it is a little difficult to put them first in other matters. Clearly, then, what needs to be done is an increase in human strength. We are also wise to discuss the ways that Sweden has been able to deal with the ongoing training of judges when, for example, a new series of break - up groups like mansal, it is clear, of course, that it is reasonable to pursue a course of ongoing education. We also need to examine the ideas of the tables in Norway and there, that justice keepers may have more problems in court, i.e. has been affected in a certain way. We also need to have an open mind about other means, i.e. that there may be personal violations, and as we discuss whether we are going to go into the way for upbuilding justice, as done in Denmark and Norway. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u18	A respectable president. It is with great joy that I now go to that vote. Some 20 years of age are now being replaced by laws that are involved in public finance. This law is a turning point in government financial affairs. This is a set of financial frameworks, whether for state or country. This is a new legal recommendation in that, for example, the State's Pentateuch is now being made public in the budgets of each year in a package. I thank the budget for a very good job over the last two and a half years. It's been a pleasure. We have discussed the conclusions made here in an agreement on this matter, which is important because, as I said yesterday in a debate, this is a form of the Constitution of public funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u19	Mr. President. Many of this bill will improve the development of public financial resources, and we in the left movement will vote with these articles below. On the other hand, we feel that the bill is a major flaw, mainly of the conditions in the economy and how it is tied down under certain rules that we believe are the binding of the government of the government of the government of the public far too much when it comes to the opportunity to use it in a balance. We will consider it in the polls with specific articles so that we will not be able to support this whole bill. However, we have adjustments and, of course, hope that others will fail. Councilmen give them their votes so that we can make peace with them on this vital framework of how we maintain the financial affairs of the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u20	Mr. President. The bill we vote for has been in preparation for the 2011 Department of Economic and Economic Affairs and the implementation of the budgetary committee at three Parliaments. By doing this, the General Assembly puts in better work ethic and setting up better policy-making policies and better planning. There is also a significant contribution to the discussions at the General Assembly and the rest of the community on the state of financial affairs and the sectoral policies. Despite the compromises of the majority of the segments made by modification proposals, the Group will support the change options of the small part, where they go beyond the changes made in the rest of the part. The Company votes against 7th. The bill, the financial rules, but it agrees with the whole bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u21	A respectable president. I'm glad we're about to vote on this bill. We think it's a great improvement and a lot of time. We're on a committee party with the rest of it, and we'll vote with all the articles.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u22	A respectable president. This is a very enjoyable subject, a big case, surely the biggest case we've taken care of during this council, and it's a pleasure to be at peace with it. When these laws become reality, they are to encourage both action and word, we encourage long - term thinking and discipline in government matters and discuss rather major matters ahead of us, certainly and hopefully something at the expense of smaller issues. This device, this setting, has a pattern in the countries we want to compare with. They agree that there is an interpolitical partnership on the responsibility of government funds in those countries. However, this does not happen by law, it does occur because, as in this room, we decide what it is as well as the media and the common people. I hope we're going the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u23	V.E.G. President. Our agent on the budget board, huh? paritaprevir It's been explained to Mr. Oddný G. Harðardóttir, our group of members, on this matter so that I don't add any more to it. But I'm going to take one example of what happens during this change, an example that is very dear to me, and that has often been discussed in the Council. For example, if we were to take up a budget for the next year's decision to start a full domestic hospital, the amount of 50,470 billion in the year of decision - making would increase, and of course, if we were to build the hospital in five years, much change its results. This is where the change in construction of the Land Hospital will be reimbursed, and in the coming years the land's commercial business will be canceled and meet the need for maintenance. I think this is a great improvement and will make it very easier for us to make the big, big decision we have to make that we all agree on, to start building a new hospital as soon as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u24	A respectable president. This bill is a major step in increasing transparency and confidence in the law and the government. We piratars will pay for the progress of this case, and we are especially happy to see the adjustment proposed that all numbers and raw data will be published in computer-readable forms that will help to increase the transparent budget and hopefully improve the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u25	A respectable president. I'm so glad we're here for votes after 2nd. in this big case. Clearly, we are facing great challenges in many parts of the administrative system, with these laws approved. Then I'm looking to a plan that actually gets more people and more money to better understand long-term plans in the future. I also look to the treaties of my rural society that become a very personal challenge. The continuation of this matter depends heavily on how we manage to have that conversation with our rural society and to reach a conclusion on the many matters of opinion that must be dealt with in financial relations between the state and the community. I also refer to how the future discussion will be conducted by this changed presentation, which is a great change and is designed to influence how key things will be separated from what I allow me to call an extra part of the budget bill. It's a very big step we take with this. [[The president calls.]] It is to be expected that something will cause problems, but we must overcome these obstacles and make future changes as necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u26	Mr. President. I don't think this adjustment proposal is necessary, I'm afraid to say at best, but at worst, it is a rule of spending which some, the longest of whom have wanted to walk, have wanted to turn into these legislation in addition to all the rest. That's what we've been and we're very opposed. We feel that it may be a dangerous instrument, especially in the hands of those who for ideological or political reasons simply want to maintain the extent of the combination as the least in the community. Thus, we do not feel that it will be better to put it in there, although there was certainly only a goal to discuss and suggest that this additional supplement not be included in the article.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u27	A respectable president. Pension debt has exactly the same flaws as any other debt, the defect that they have to be paid, and therefore it is extremely important in all planning that we are aware of their commitments. They're not leaving us. If we do not look at them, in reality, we are sending that account to our children and grandchildren, and we have done so in some way throughout our lives. This proposal does not prevent this, but it makes it clear what these pension bonds are. Just so you know, the Penitentiary Department of Pension, all alone, goes under 2027, and then we have to pay another 10 billion for 10 more years from the state's budget to meet that commitment. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u28	A respectable president. Here's a motion from a smaller section of the budget board to explain the concept of self-sustainingly in the song text than the bill says: (b) How can we be sure that we will be able to do what is right in Jehovah's eyes? (b) How can we be sure that we will be able to do what is right in Jehovah's eyes? ◯ The minority suggests that this adds up to the terms of economic, social, and environmental factors, to the extent that the definition of sustainable development and sustainable views applied at the international level of the United Nations and elsewhere where the term sustainability appears in the International Texts to which we are involved. I believe that at these times, especially when we're about to become current in climates, it is most appropriate that we call these basic sustainable features of the law on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u29	In this regard, the president reminds us that, as you know, this rule is true that after the first comment has begun, you cannot ask for the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u30	A respectable president. It is important to state this because the change in the proposal before, from the smaller part of the Committee, was dropped, however, we are paying a vote for an article referring to sustainability and, of course, based on an interpretation of the concept sustainability of internationally accepted conditions. This, of course, does not involve any material choice, even though the proposed fraction has been dropped earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u31	Mr. President. 7. This bill is the article we need. Congressmen of the left movement ▪ Green Pronunciation feel the worst in this bill. Hence, we suggest a change form that aims to make the economic objectives that such are not legal in the way that the majority of the council suggests. We believe that by legalizing these goals, governments at any given time interfere with the boundaries of the economy. If we look at Icelandic history, it has certainly been necessary. So we make adjustments, which include the setting of goals from a government at the beginning of each terms or the beginning of a government's career if it is at any other time. We believe that a much more reasonable political view is that economic goals, which are high political goals at any given time, are set by a government, not legal in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u32	Mr. President. In contrast to the last vote, I consider this one of the better branches of the bill. I think it's time we set an absolute standard that doesn't depend on interpretations from time to time. I call attention to the fact that the countries that have the best results in economic management are based on statistics. The European Union has been doing this in the long run and is intensifying these enormous conditions. This article, however, applies to another article on the bill, 10 / 15 depending on your circumstances, please contact the branch office that serves your country. I think it is a great joy to know that here is developing more things for putting us in a kind of debt, that when the government's debt is over a set number of criteria, we will always agree that there should always be a constant decrease in debt, no matter what the government has to do with it, and that we are always at all times during each five - year period, with the rest of the money. [[The president calls.]] This is a key requirement for us to increase stability in the future. I'm especially glad there's more to this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u33	Mr. President. I feel very sorry that the changes in my section were not approved, since this was a step toward setting up goals that would include the factors that are presented here at the beginning of each terms or period of work. The issue of whether a person is willing to legalize a set of criteria in these materials or to have it in other ways is also about where the contents are then. V.E.G. The secretary of finance may have made it clear to members of Congress that this is a suggestion to accept the most rigid financial policy on the foundation. Do people fully realize that this is a legal requirement for the total debt of the state and community of the A-part of these bodies, apart from the Penitentiary, that there will be only 30% of the gross domestic product? [[Foreground on: Good case.]] That's good, yeah. We'd like to, but I guess it'll turn out to be an arm to get there and stay there. Is it really wise to pay, if I can put it that way, to say the possibility of the public to protect his community through economic change? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u34	A respectable president. This whole bill is based on work during the last term and that all political parties have come. This article is different. It is created by this government on the basis of this government, and it has not been a parapolitic cooperation or cooperation. These criteria need to be based on general agreements because they can have a basic influence on government options at any given time to use political choices. Should we reduce debt or defend a job? Should a debt be reduced or should the home be protected? Should a debt be reduced or an investment be added to a welfare service? This is the fundamental thing that governments at any given time must have the freedom to make decisions, and it is not true that one political force with one ideal will bind other political powers in the way this is supposed to. Therefore, we vote against this article and leave the right to change it when we get back into more of it. [[For example, consider: It is not long before this happens.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u35	Mr. President. Just moments ago, the more part here in the hall approved the strongest financial rule I know to be built up. I wonder if they could afford to have a way out to the highest level. Among other things, the minister of finance quoted a speech earlier than 10. ....., to define it as being that it doesn't need almost the end of the world in order to get out of financial regulations 7. par.? That's what they say. They need a national threat or something huge. We suggest that these are different definitions and refer to the development of a challenging social, economic, or economic situation that the Minister can come to the council with a revised financial program. That's what this means. That is why it is a mistake to have the definition in Article 10. too narrow in view of the fact that the majority of them were willing to keep the financial rules so rigid themselves, the screws tightened in. I strongly encourage you to support this adjustment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u36	A respectable president. If we are going to achieve the results that all members of the Parliament, in any case, agree, and those discussing national matters, we will have to make rules. That's why we had a deal, so we agreed on verse 7. I completely refuse that this is the case with this rule of caution only if it becomes the end of the world. I encourage those who want to study the case to read Article 10. It says, by permission of the President: If the core premises of financial policy are missing or predictable due to economic failure, national or other circumstances, which are impossible to deal with by means of available resources, then Ministers should be referred to, etc. A respectable president. It's not talking about the end of the world, it's a long way from. Here are all the warnings required to intervene if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u37	Mr. President. It was quite expected that both the financial order and Article 10. which is the legal binding of trust in the secretary of finance and the government does not see to follow this fairly rigid financial rule, especially business spending and debt balance, needs to be handled in a special discussion at the council. This is the basic element of these changes, the order found in the interaction of the articles. In the 10th. it simply says that if there is going to be economic and financial problems, it will have an opinion of the reasons why a longer schedule has to be set up for special discussions at the council. I feel that it has fallen to strengthen the assembly's approach to fundamental decisions, that no government in the future should cry out in the face of a discussion of whether or not these circumstances have given rise to a reason to deviate from the rules. [[The president calls.]] By this interaction, I think we have gained a very healthy balance in order to cope with unexpected external economic events that can indeed occur and will occur.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u38	A respectable president. Because there's a lot of talk about building up, I'd like to reiterate my view that I don't think the land that's been exposed to such a swinging and bizarre economic regime as here. I think that's a good reason we have to set some boundaries for the future. If this council can provide the future citizens of this country with a better economy, I think it's good and in Article 10. says exactly what I think is quite extensive and that I can interpret at any given time. I'll agree with the highest. The secretary of the budget that the Senate's check on the government at the time would then be high, and the government would need to explain clearly what other circumstances were called upon to compromise these rules. I'm celebrating.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u39	A respectable president. I just wanted to state that for the reason there's one wrong here, that's a point in place of a decimal after ◯ Has finished college in the first place. It's not the point that what comes after falls down. It's just an extra, it's all gone to college, and then it's, like, "I don't want to be fair, and I want to know about public finances. " I say this so that men are completely aware that that that's what we're accepting, not throwing out the other.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u40	V.E.G. President. I'm very welcome to this move, which is as follows, by permission of the president: During the four weeks following contributions from bill to budget, the Agency shall provide a financial committee of the General Commission on the impact of the bill on urban development in the country. You see, there is a law for public financial gain that is being worked out for more than 5,960,1990, Reykjavík, U.S.A. There's a lot of other mail numbers, and I'm happy to hear it. I'm also going to use this trip to celebrate the very thing that came out in a speech explanation. Chairman of the budget board who said, on permission of the President: ▪ We've considered ourselves to a conclusion... What a fine example this is! It may be the happiest news on that day of the assembly! I'm gonna use this opportunity, even though I'm kind of breaking rules and pointing it to the highest level. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The minister of finance, the political point of order, is to make a meeting with other political leaders to discuss with us the conclusion of correcting the ideals of the elderly and the desperate ones of this year, according to the types of collective agreements and the findings of the Quartal Court. [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u41	A respectable president. The change that was made in Article 16. Of course, the bill, which refers to the computer equipment of a background bill and such data, applies only to computer data. I just want it to be done on the news. It's not just electronic data, there's a difference. The computer data, of course, refers to computer-locked data, and I felt that it was correct to appear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u42	Mr. President. The bill assumes that political responsibilities can be relieved by advisers when it comes to private business and outleting of business so that the heads of state will be permitted without a secretary's permission, without a secretary's consent, to extend up to a quarter of their business management. There is an adjustment from the greater part that the change ratio will be slightly lower. However, this will be without the permission of a minister and our proposal in the left movement a ◯ green supply will account for the 10% rate and with the approval of the local minister, since it is highly political how we conduct public business and whether it is through private business and outdoor. It is important that they be held political responsibility, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u43	Mr. President. It's a very strange law. Instead of building on the current rules, which, of course, allow the preparation of a service contract with a political advisor, both the Minister of Ministers and the Secretary of Ministers, shall create an independent order in the budgetary regulations that officials may be able to care for assignments. The original idea of the bill was that as many as a quarter of it could become. The tour of this law in this bill and the conduct of the committee may show that it is not all maligned. Last year's bill assumed it was 10%. Then it comes out now, and then it's 25%. Then comes a financial committee with its genius and finds out that the right number is 15% which shows that it's not all as small as a rock. The political essence of this law is strange, to expect free ministers from responsibility to confirm such implementation of tasks will arise. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u44	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the law of housing partnerships. I suggested the bill to the last legislation, so it's now submitted a second time. In September 2013, I appointed a project management on the future housing arrangements in line with Congress resolution of measures due to domestic debt problems. The Project Management Board returned its proposal by reporting in May 2014, but among those proposed by the Management Board, legislation on housing partners would be reviewed with the guidance that their activities would be promoted to further support such communities in the new housing structure. I now recommend a bill to legalize the law of housing partnerships, No. 66/2003. The bill was prepared with the representatives of the Bauta, Bust, Bustea, and Bústa residence partners in the north and the Bús. The primary objective of the bill is to make it easier for housing partners to work in Iceland according to the objective that citizens of the country will be safe for housing in accordance with individual needs and, for example, have a real selection of farm shapes, so that individuals can increasingly choose between property, rent and farm surfaces. In addition, the bill aims to increase the protection of farmholders and to further explain their legal status, other members, and housing partners themselves. In addition, the bill is aimed at promoting the sustainable operation of such partners in Iceland at the same time as it seeks to improve their diversity by assigning them to make decisions on various matters that may affect their operation in their approved terms instead of dealing with them in a precise legal manner. This includes emphasis on one of the main characteristics of housing partners, which are based on participation in their members and the importance of being able to make decisions that will impact the quality of their partners for a longer and shorter time. In this regard, I think it is particularly important to ensure that the legal status of the home state is clear, both at entry into housing partnerships and especially at the sale of farms. In the latter case, it is more often than not a considerable amount of money for a normal family in this country, even life savings. I think it is important to make sure that the legal code that applies to housing communities contributes to the sustainable development of such organizations, which, unfortunately, has not always been the case here. This plan is especially intended for the benefit of members of the community. A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, the bill is designed to make it easier for housing partners to work in Iceland. There are a wide range of changes in relevant housing laws aimed at promoting the safe and sustainable management of partners in Iceland as well as the creation of provisional housing partners to create special housing facilities and thus providing opportunities for society's rules and management models in the way members consider suitable for the company. The bill aims to define the details that housing partners should expand in their approved ways in which members of the community prefer and consider the best interests of the society to be paid for longer or shorter periods of time without having fixed conditions in the law. This is one of the points I would like to emphasize here specifically. Thus, the bill allows members to determine for themselves how home payment and home payment are set as well as contributions from other members' funds, such as the maintenance fund and the housing fund. So it is assumed, as one of the most important factors in this bill, that members of this network can decide, for example, whether the entire cost of living should be paid by the society's operating system or by its individual farms. However, open law allows only for the latter benefits, as stated by individual dwelling quarters. Nevertheless, I feel that there will be some legal arrangements that can contribute to the sustainable management of housing partners as well as the maintenance of their business. Among the suggestions, there is the need to avoid paying money from housing partners who profit or make money and who will not be allowed to negotiate the market rights. I believe that experience has shown us that the contract has proved too difficult to bear for their business so that it can be chosen by the law of finance to place such a obligation on their business. This may be a good option at first, which then becomes an illusion that can prove to be expensive. However, I reiterate that earlier contracts were made in ancient law or that include such laws already retain their values. For the first time, regular assessments of your partner's finances, commitments, and activities are required to make it easier for partners and partners to gain a perspective on their status, including their future commitments. The bill suggests that the command and role of the management of housing partners is further established, but it is important that those taking over in such partners and members themselves have a role in the management of housing partners. It is also suggested that the Commission's housing partners be added to help clear the separation between the responsibilities of the Member State and the Commission on the other hand. A respectable president. I also think it is very important to ensure that housing partners are well informed about the nature of homemaking and the financial risks involved in such communities, especially in the case of home-temperatures, although members are not personally responsible for the overall commitment of the society. Therefore, the bill suggests that the materials of approved housing partners and regulations set out on the basis of them should be presented to members of the Member States in the preparation of local contracts, as well as to the righting of homeholders and duties, and especially the very nature of the home payment that comes on the payment of the estate payment. In part, the value of living conditions depends on the individual situation, so it is clear that the value of living conditions can both increase and decrease from the level of home-seat payment to the construction of a home-seat contract and until the home-seat-ifier wishes in later stages after selling his home estate. It is important that farm conditions be recognized in this respect and that they also recognize that the mortgage price is not specifically set out in the custody of the housing community or guarantees otherwise failures. In view of this, I also believe that it is important and reasonable to believe that the amount of home planning will be set up under law. So the bill suggests that at the same time as it is expected that housing partners themselves will decide in their agreement how the home state payment is decided that it may maximum study of the amount equivalent to a third of the market value of the local market at the purchase of farms. The bill also aims to clarify the rightness of members of housing partners as well as their partners themselves, such as the entry of members of the club, divorce, and the death of members of the community, including farmholders, responsible exchange for the maintenance of real estate as well as the rightness of a party at the end of a contract. In particular, I would like to mention that agricultural rights, according to the general rules of genetic law, are subject to the death of the home state seaholders, and we have to assume that significant funds have been offered to buy livestock rights in the event of the general financial situation of the local worker. Thus, living rights include financial advantages that are not generally considered to be so personal in nature that it prevents them from inheriting between humans. It is suggested that an heir be allowed to make good use of farm conditions unless the control of housing partners would provide valid reasons for this. The Society, on the other hand, is permitted to revise the sum of the estate that may be important for its future business. However, if he is not a member of the household, he shall sell it according to the regulations that apply to the sale of estates under the law and by the approved society. In accordance with local legislation on housing partnerships, which deal with the end of a living contract and, as such, with farm conditions, is expected to be able to cancel a contract by six months' notice. It is assumed that a housing partnership will automatically take over the estate - I repeat that here we are talking about existing laws - after the deadline has passed, along with the rights and responsibilities it holds and the seating conditions it must be handed over to the estate regardless of whether or not the property has been sold. The Society is then authorized to rent out a besieged apartment, and the company can pay rent on the flat, especially in 2 mg. 25. The law of the former resident shall have the preconceived right to it. In such cases, it seems that the legal status of a homeholder is somewhat vague, particularly in terms of reimbursement of the value of home estate. It is particularly shocking in view of the fact that the amount of money that the person contributed when buying the farm property would be significant and would be expected to get back in part or in all the way by selling the farm property. I think it's important to change this so that, in the circumstances where the home is not sold out at 25 p.m., you can better ensure that you are in the home safe. current track. It is suggested that the owner maintain the right to which he has paid and thus continue to enjoy it whether he chooses to remain in the shop or to extend the apartment until the estate is sold, the apartment remains in the company's sales treatments. Investors, however, are always subject to the approval of the housing company, where the goal is always to use a living quarters as such, not as rent. At the same time, the interests of housing partners can be seen as they are expected to continue to carry out their duties to the organisation at the time of sales treatment, both in terms of payment and maintenance of the facility. A respectable president. In my opinion, it is important to ensure housing authorities comparable to the rights to the forced sale of apartments and owners, as the consequences of forced sales are the same or at least similar for both parties. So the bill suggests that if we underdeveloped sales on a farmhouse that has been used by the Sea of State, he should be properly used to keep the apartment in place for a period of time, up to 12 months from the approval of an invitation, against a payment that runs to the buyer, which, in the opinion of the businessman, answers to the right rent. It is expected that a businessman will be allowed to separate that the home-seat holder will place a guarantee for the damage that could become on a farm. A respectable president. As mentioned above, this bill contains important changes in the law on housing partnerships seeking to promote sustainable and safe operating of housing partners as well as those who are seeking to clarify and secure the rights of members of the community, and particularly the home havens of the sea. I believe it is necessary to make these changes in the law so that the layering form will be placed even more firmly in this country than it has been so far. It is clear in my mind that people should be able to choose three types of habitations, i.e. property, rent or farm. So this bill is an important link so that such a choice can become real to people. Finally, I would like to mention that in the reviews received by a welfare committee during our treatments, there were some comments in effect that the next bill will appear on a new social camping system. It is based on a Danish role model, a so - called 'almeniglov' that we have translated as a law code on a general apartment, based on an automation agency. I think it's very important to bear in mind that it's not looking at the housing community when it comes to government housing support for smaller families. Rather, it's in another bill that will arise at the next level, which is a system that we hope will become sustainable for the future and will be supported by a state and rural society and have been called a general camp bill. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The social and housing minister for the history of this case looks for improvement, although it did not significantly alter the position of the housing market. Or maybe you should say the highest. Social and housing minister in view of the widespread inactivity characterised by this ideal period. Of course, there is good reason to include the Minister on this matter, although it is late and at last a small matter that will not make much difference in the housing market, how much of the prime ministers, the money this year, 400 million I think it was, should be weighed against the food tax, the services being announced, the major matters that were stuck in the Ministry of finance if we understood the situation in spring. So the minister has been serving in 2013, 2014, and now as 2015. We're entering the spring council by the end of a prime season, second-last year term. What the minister comes out of this will be in order to become the next government and the next secretary to act. It seems that a complete inactivity is expected to result from this ideal period. Or is there some matters that will be taken care of before Christmas and that are relevant to increasing the amount of resources for young people who are looking for an apartment building and who are in great trouble with it as humans know?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u46	A respectable president. As I've been saying repeatedly, there are other primes in the process and will appear in the near future. I have also emphasized that it is important for people to look at the bigger picture. I'm sorry if it happened. A senator believes that this bill does not involve much. I believe that there will be significant changes here that will lead to the next year, if the council settles the matter, there will be hundreds of apartments built on the exact residence rights and housing of the social law. I reiterate that I think it is very important for the council and the welfare committee to handle the matter well. In addition to this bill, it is especially important to improve the rightness of the housing partners and ensure that large numbers of families will be provided for housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u47	A respectable president. Granted, the bill may include an explanation of uncertainty about the legal status and other improvements in these legislation. However, this will not lead to large donations for the young people who lack housing. Therefore, the minister needs to know that the minister of housing is asked how it will be expected that, after three years of office, there will be some basic solutions for young people in the housing market still in the process. Didn't the Minister have them on trial for the spring council? Didn't the Minister have them on file here in the fall? Is it not the last delay to enter Congress at this fall council that expires now on Monday? Isn't it Friday today? Can the minister not inform us of the 400 million potential renters to compensate for the increase in the food tax? Can we not find out where the housing benefits are? Is all of this still in the process? Should this also take place during springtime? Or winter? How long will people wait for the Minister to bring the bills that include resources for management in this area? Despite the quality of rights, there will be no practical solutions for young people in housing only if there is money involved. Where are the primary financial resources to create housing options for young people who are unable to enter the new housing market?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u48	I once again thank a senator for his contribution in a house - to - house discussion. I repeat what I said, people have to watch the bigger picture. I remind you that there's a substantial budget for housing at the council, sitting on a financial committee. I'm guessing 2nd. will be in the next few days regarding the suggestions on the budget. There are other primes I could name. This bill is very important. The construction accounts have been made available on a considerable number of apartments, which include this bill, where you see to strengthen the status of your housing partners and make them more powerful and better to deal with these big projects, to increase the number of apartments. I encourage welfare committees for good works. We have tried as much as possible to take into account the comments made during spring treatment, and have also had a good discussion in the autumn with those who have been involved in the case, including the labour market and the European Union. I reiterate that I know that the welfare committee knows the importance of this matter, that we may continue to support our families in the country and provide them with a choice of housing market, whether it be property, rent, or living quarters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u49	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the history of this bill. I can agree with the minister that it is important to secure the legal status of a estatee, as things have developed in recent years. But I would like to ask the highest. Minister of a few questions. There's a change in Section 3. in which it is said that a minister may allow a variation from the minimum number of founders to be allowed according to this paragraph. I just want to hear a minister's opinion of the minimum number. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister for this article, which describes housing partnerships as having been registered by the governor of the tax, which I believe is correct. Why, then, is it to state that unscrupulous housing communities cannot be involved in judicial matters? I'm not related. I'm not related. I'm not related. Mr. President, that housing communities are registered, so you don't have to do anything about unregistered communities? I'm glad that these laws are in control of gender percentages because there are still many issues lacking in equality. On page 18. 4 to 6. The bill, in the last paragraph, discusses the administration of the company, that it is forbidden to enforce social meetings or other members of the organisation if the decision is invalid because it violates the law or approved society. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Why is this great sentence included in here on what is forbidden? Is there something in the water that gives reasons for binding laws with such strong words what can't be said?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u50	A respectable president. Thank you for questions from what? Senator. B-team 3. is being authorized by the minister to allow anomalies. The reason for this is, among other things, the comments received by a spring welfare committee that specifically moved to the country or smaller settlements, that it could be too much to have the minimum number of founders currently in the law on partnerships that also apply to housing communities. Our conclusion was that rather than having a lower number in the law, it would be permitted to apply for anomalies. They would need to reason on this, and each time they can be appreciated. Actually, according to the law at this time, it would be possible to go down to one, which would be very strange. I believe it is important that the welfare committee reviews whether we would like to set a frame on this minister's warrant or better explain who should be a support for such abnormalities. For the rest, it actually turns to a specific legal technique. As the senator points out, we should not have unregistered housing partners. These laws suggest that we are somehow trying to deal with specific judgments that have been looked at as a law on housing partnerships in the process of interpreting disagreements that have to do with so - called population rights. To me, there is no clear law against it. This is something the courts have been doing. We're sharpening this by what it is about housing partners. The U.S. County Court is in my mind. It's not a home-in-the-house dish. Here we are talking about three forms of housing that I think are important to a frame of. This is what we're talking about being present in the Icelandic housing market. [[The president calls.]] That's all there is to it. I'll come to my third question in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u51	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers are waiting for the answer to the third question about this big paragraph, tied in with a law, about what cannot be said. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister of one more question. It has something to do with a 10. that discuss a social worker who has taken advantage of his right to purchase a place of residence but then has to make a home payment. However, at the end of this article, it is stated that a member is not personally responsible for the overall commitment of the company. That's the question to the highest. Minister: Is it the government responsible for the overall commitment of the company or who is responsible for housing partners if it is not those who are partners in the housing company? Who, then, can be responsible? Is it the government that members choose, if members of the community are not somehow responsible for the overall commitments of the society, even if only the share of the estate? If the highest. Minister only wanted to approach that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u52	A respectable president. Regarding the question facing the last sentence of 6. It can be said that once again there is a particular legal system to be overemphasized, and that is what is reflected in the entire bill, the importance of partners in partnerships, self-respecting one of the baseline cooperative ideals, was their own responsibility for participation in society. We are making it a point to introduce to those who come into the club, to members of the club, to those who buy farmlike ones, to what responsibility and duty they are to accept by joining in the company. There have been cases in which it appears that the members simply do not understand the type of association they are participating in by becoming members of a social club and then buying a housework partner. I reiterate what has to do with this: If a health committee thinks it's a reason to take it out, I think it's something important that we go over and how we want to say this to sharpen our vision of the law. About 10. ..... Who is responsible for the total commitment, the partner who is responsible. The responsibility of a social worker who buys home is limited to the value of home estate, but nothing else. It's something we believe is very important to be clearly stated. As a result, for all involved in society, it is also important to consider that wise and good decisions are made and that society has a common interest in success.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u53	V.E.G. President. As mentioned earlier, we are here to discuss the highest bill. Social and housing minister for Eygló Harðardóttir on housing partners. I have had a place in project management, and I also agree on housing matters, and before I continue, I would like to start by thanking for the good consultations that have been made by the bill process and thanking the confidence that you have gained from it. I would also like to thank them for those at the Ministry of Health who have worked very hard to bring up the bill and respond, among other things, to the comments of a health committee when the committee received the matter for material treatment during the last winter. I'd also like to say that this is one of the top four residence plantes. Minister to report to the fall council. It is very important that the primes that have not yet appeared, I know that work is hard on them, so you can see the tremendous positive picture of the bills. The primary products expected are the bill for reimbursement of tenures with the objective of increasing the rights of the tenants, the bill for increased support in the form of housing improvements in order to achieve equal quality between those in the tenure market and their own housing, as well as the project for building up to social apartments to improve the provision of apartments. There is great lack of a person who shows himself to be in high rent prices. How important it is to look to all these bills and see what their goals are and how they should improve the situation in a tenet! During the implementation of the welfare committee at the last assembly, the main criticism, not from sources, was focused on this controversial bill, but on the fact that the bill alone would not improve the rent market as a whole. So again and again, I reiterate that it is very important to watch the bigger picture. However, this is a huge bill, for there are housing partners here in the country waiting for the bill to become a law to continue its structure. The pipes further strengthen certain communities that are here with the goal of building more apartments and thus increasing the supply of housing. It's like I've been in here and it's been at the highest level. Minister is the bill submitted a second time. The case came to rest. The spring welfare committee, unfortunately, did not arrive at the appointed time in spite of the great cooperation of members of the committee. Here we go. Reinforcing the matter, I expect the committee to establish a partnership, work hard, and materially so that new laws can be applied to housing communities. The main objective of the bill is to make it easier for housing partners to work in Iceland. That's exactly what we want, for everyone to have security in housing and to have a real choice for living things. We have seen, among other things, that many may not be able to buy an apartment, and some do not want to buy it, and others want to go from house to house. That is why it is very important to strengthen the law on housing communities so that we can sustain them and people have real choice of farm shape, and this will be one of their advantages. Here, revised legislation is being provided, with the goal of promoting housing partners. The aim is to increase the protection of farmholders and further explain their legal status and other members and housing partners themselves. Increasing the protection of farm conditions is a very important factor. Sadly, in recent years, we have seen that certain societies have failed to survive, and individuals have been buying into them and have not even had a clue about their problem status. It may not be until everything has been cooled off, and the situation has become very difficult for residents and members who have lived in the system for a certain period of time to know what the situation is. That is why it is very important that the bill in this bill increase the population democracy to counter this and to provide additional information for the population. A respectable president. I'm going to discuss some of the elements of the bill that I feel are a major improvement for housing partners to promote and continue to make them a real option as a homemaker. First of all, the bill suggests that housing partners can be able to do more in their approved terms, including financial matters, including stocks, management funds, reserves, and maintenance funds. Since these provisions are in the approved housing partnerships, the members themselves are members of the community who decide these factors and what the role of these funds should be. As approved, we have a more detailed definition of how they should be financed. The approved society on which the inhabitants themselves are influenced has a law on the role and ideal of the government. It should also be mentioned in the agreed organisation how to handle the management measures or if there is a loss of business. The agreements also show who should make a decision regarding the wearer's company and how to implement its property will fail. There is a provision set out in the Community agreed on these factors. This is of great importance because once people have bought a homework partnership, financial interests are at stake. In many cases, a great deal of property or even totalitarians lies in that payment. How important it is, then, that individuals who own this right affect the way their decisions are made in the society and how it works! Then if we look at 6. The bill then states that if desired, a book on what happens in a government meeting should be held and made available to members of the community. I think it's very important and very positive that this will be shown in the law to increase transparency for members of what happens and the decisions taken in control, including For the financial interests behind all the decisions and anything that goes on within the partners. Seven. The bill discusses the assessment of the financial and financial resources of the partners. It shows that housing partners should be performed once every three years or more with the evaluation of the financial, commitment and activities of their partners to ensure that the partner is self-sustained for a longer time. It also states that housing partners should maintain the necessary reserve to meet fluctuations in the operation. It's a very good law. It is essential that the provision of a regular assessment of the budget of the housing partnership is made in the bill that if the inhabitants themselves agree that this review is to be done more than every three years, and it is stated in the approved society, this should be done. This is yet another evidence of the increasing population democracy involved in the bill. I'm going to go to 20. The bill. It's about the end of a living contract. When we get what we need. The welfare committee had the case for our last session was this point that we wondered a lot about, and we had many questions about, including the inhabitants of housing partners in the country or those non-Urgent communities. They were afraid of this article, since it's being combined that I have a memory of 20 and 25. current track. However, a careful consideration of what this article involves shows that it is being added to the options or possibilities that its inhabitants may have if they want to complete their local contracts or sell their rights. First of all, citizens need to inform housing partners that they intend to sell their farm property. That's where a process takes place according to the bill. Housekeeping companies care for sales of the rights, and the decision to make a living will be in harmony with that if the apartment sells. If that doesn't work out, there's another possibility. It's extending the apartment. The bill makes provision that it can be extended up to 12 months if approved by the company. If the tenants'wishes are rejected, there must be a clear evidence. Then you can give up farm rights. It is similar to the requirements of a so - called key layer if they were present in this country, so it can be said that the population of housing partners is more than those with their own possessions at the usual markets. That's a good thing to do. If everything else burns inside, you can't sell and you can't rent, maybe there's a market problem in the area, then this is possible. Of course, it is always difficult to lose the financial rights that you have put into the company, but it works out as in key layers if available. There are three possibilities for walking out of a society like this if there are any reasons why people don't want to be in the company anymore. I have to celebrate what's also presented at 20. If a resident loses his apartment on an obligatory sale, the tragic experiences can cause people to lose an apartment because they can't handle payments or because of other factors, these individuals are being brought right in line with what is today's owner, the owner of an apartment building sold under forced sale. For example, the apartment can be rented up to 12 months from the time of the forced sale. I think it's a big improvement. In cooperation with the Committee, we will examine various aspects of the bill, including what the minister spoke about earlier on minimum and more. This includes the national winds of communication. We will see if this can be considered in the case of the committee. Finally, I want to thank you for this clear bill and the hard work and much consultation that was made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u54	A respectable president. ▪ Bumblets are one of the cornerstones of general well - being, correctly says the BSRB's comments on this bill. Hence, how this delicate cornerstone is treated is worth much. In recent years and decades, however, housing has been a problem and is now in full - scale crisis, and this is a major problem. House prices are so high that people cannot buy their first apartment at the same time that renters and rent prices are extremely high. Young people cannot buy, cannot rent, and cannot see a solution in the near future. This is a situation that has been unbearable, especially in regard to young renters, since research shows that tenants are more likely to have financial problems and tenants' children are more likely to live in poverty and lack of material advantages. It is therefore necessary to support the development of a new social structure system that meets those who are unable to handle market management and who cannot buy or rent. In this context, the bill here is a significant step. It is intended, as it shows in its objective, to make it easier for housing partners to work in Iceland, that as many as possible live in housing security, and that social status should be paid for agricultural rights. At the same time, it's got the highest. Another bill was announced by a minister about a new social rental system that we have not actually seen. The goal of the bill is that most of the parts are good and everything I would say. It is important that housing partners have room to create special housing facilities, and the rules of such partners and management models can be arranged in a way that members feel appropriate. The importance of setting detailed financial guidelines for these associates, the need for changes in the specificity of home payment and housing costs, and the provision of decision-making authority there in the hands of carers of housing partners, can be taken into account. I can also agree with what is suggested in the bill that it is forbidden to pay interest or profit money from housing partners to partners. Instead, there is expected to be a budget for the growth and maintenance of the company, such as loans, and to ensure that housing partners are well informed about the quality of homemaking and financial risks that may be involved in such partners. It is possible to accept these goals fully, for they are put out of need because of what has come up and have been very difficult and difficult to think about. I'm happy for the many things that appear on the bill. Perhaps, especially, what comes at the end is striving to explain more fully the various terms and terms used in the law on housing partners and to harmonize the use of words in the law. The law must be clear and not only written for lawyers and experts but also be so that the public who owns their interests under it can understand it well. It's all good and good. As I said at the outset, the safe habit is one of the cornerstones of general well-being. That is why I agree with the BSRB, whose review reveals that the bill was submitted to us, that we need to respond to changes in housing needs by means of controlled management measures to ensure adequate housing for the future. The organization draws attention to the fact that whole action is fundamental. Of course, this particular bill as well as any of the bills that have previously come from the government during this terms only a limited number of problems. It may be better to deal with the serious situation in Iceland today. For example, there has not yet been some suggestions on the funding of housing and the duties of the state and rural society in that subject, such as the Common Union points to and, in fact, the World Health Organization of the Houses, which have called attention to the urgent need for action due to taxing housing costs. We know that one of the largest terms at that expense is the financial cost of interest and insurance loans in Iceland that are hugely large. In the context, I would like to remind the members of the United States that more than once there have been proposals for the resolution of emergency operations to ensure that all facilities are affordable. In that suggestion - in fact, these are a number of detailed suggestions in nine teams, and I want only to trace our main suggestions. We have suggested in the Council of Parliament that a secretary would provide a bill to legalize new housing that would provide similar support to those who have their own housing with interest. We also suggest that the bill be assigned to the council by the Minister as a reserve of the individual's income because of the renting of one apartment capital tax. The requirement for housing is not greater than the average rent price in the area of the apartment to hold back rent prices. We also have ideas that people who buy an apartment or a home for the first time and who earn less money will be given additional loans with government support to finance the money. That the Secretary of Economics and Economics is offering the State's ruined grounds to build my rent-a-weapon. That Environment and Resource Ministers will put together a report on the review of an already proposed building order to cover the construction of my and less expensive rented apartments, and provide a plan for further adjustments in that subject. There are changes in the rules to facilitate the purchase of social apartments in order to prevent the debt of rural society from falling under debt to which rural society is not allowed and that there is a higher limit for the number of social apartments that each community can borrow. We have also set up a bill on the change in housing laws that ensure similar subsidies from the state whether they receive loans from an apartment loan fund or on the market. Most important, I'd like to mention the idea that the government is in charge of a contract with the local community and the labour market bodies for the founding body to a roommate who commits himself to long-term contracting. These are the suggestions the United States has put into this overall situation and this specific bill fails to respond, since separate measures are, of course, not expected, under different law columns. But I feel that it is right to remind me of these suggestions because the conditions in the housing market are and have been so over the past few years that it will no longer be a pleasure, no more reason, except to take up that discussion in the overall context when necessary. As I said before, the safe layer is one of the cornerstones of general well-being, as noted. That's as good a word as it will be. I hope that a good cooperation is achieved with the members of the administrations in this case as well as with others, and I want to make the most of it. A minister to show at the council the bills that need to arise to deal with other issues. I am glad that there is a bill on a new social rental system, although, of course, it is too early for a material discussion. Is in the meantime, as they say. It's a good thing the bill is done, and I hope and wish for the council and the commission to do well with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u55	Madam President. A man would have been expecting an almost full conference and a big part of the discussion when the day finally came to the top of the housing bill. The minister of housing, which is a significant milestone, has been asked, as we know it. True, only here is reimbursed in a relatively technical bill of housing partnerships and home estate conditions, which is a good paying price, but of course, there is no breakthrough in the struggles with real estate markets or in housing issues that are indistinguishable, as it was during the last talk. You can call it nothing but a fear - inspiring situation. It's a crazy situation in large areas in Iceland. The situation is not limited to the capital area, though most of the discussion is involved. There is also a fear - inspiring situation on other grounds of housing in many parts of the country. There is a need for housing, but no one is trusting to build. This situation continues to develop and progress in a number of cleaning settlements. To some extent, the situation at the real estate market here is beginning to cause people to move directly from within the country to get to a less expensive home or housing. On the one hand, you can see this development in the nearby regions of Reykjavík or the capital area. People drive from Selephoss or Acdéri to work or even from where they are from, and there are also cases where people simply transport the parts of the country because the cost of getting into the home is beyond control, e.g. for a child of many families. I know examples of people who have moved out of the southwest corner of Akureyri, east of the country, and other places. They often move to areas where real - estate prices are much lower than where housing is scarce. The situation is that except for the settlements in the vicinity of the capital area and Akureyri, new housing facilities have been negligible in other areas of the country. In the 1980's, most of the world's population is built on a large scale, and then on a place that was added through the social system. This cannot be done forever. Now I remind you of this because I think it's okay for a man to handle his living arrangements only and their general situation. Of course, what you need is so much more than some technical adjustments to the housing law. Strictly simple and roughly, there is a need for one of 3,55,000 dwellings in the capital area, with a standing position for small apartments at affordable costs. Then you have to build every year for every new year so that you can find some balance here on the market. It's not there today. This, in turn, puts those who are buying apartments because the rent price is so high and allows them to be used either for travel or for rent. The person here is and has long been very interested in housing partners and living arrangements. I participated in it in my time and became a social worker when the first Society of that sort was formed here in the 1980's, and I know no better than that I clearly paid my social bills for it ever since, although I did not take advantage of that housing resources because of circumstances. At that time, socialism and cooperation took together and wanted to try to establish such forms here as housing options. The 1980's was much more negligent in that subject, as was the failure of notoriously paid - and - price violations when insurance insurance was taken off, not on loans, and the failures of notorious success occurred in 1983, and the Sisun group came into existence and all of that. Then they set their hope and set many still, at least In part, the solution could be a powerful partnership and the arrangement for maintaining a home estate by contributing some money, thus ensuring their status, and in other respects paying rent. I'm sure it's time to go over the law and fix it. In a hurry, it seems to me that the above suggestions are reasonable. There is good reason to be sure that this does not mean a turning point. This is not an additional resort or a solution to the state of the real estate market we're facing, of course not. If only a few subject elements of the bill are taken into account, then I find it very reasonable to say that it is not lawful to pay money from these partners in the form of money or such payment, since these partners and men co-ope together for a good cause by being in such a society rather than by making personal gain. With regard to the purchase, it sounds unwise in many ways, i.e. that it can be very difficult for communities to have it built - in. Of course, it would have to be based on some of the measures that make it certain that it will not be at the expense of other members of the community or those left behind if flights fail or in some way. If the market situation, the changing of the demand, or other ways in which there will be no one who will be able to buy a home safe from those who want to get out, to move around, or to do so, the law needs to be protected. It's hard to guarantee that. Of course, some form of bank insurance would be the key, but it would probably always be costly. Such a risk would no one take to bear unless something is received in return. Perhaps it would be the simplest way to avoid being permitted to do business. It has advantages, and it in itself is certain that if you can't imagine that the budget can so build up and that it can be strong and sure that there is potential for buying or buying. Of course, the prenup must always be, but the question is about duty. The main factors involved in the information and duties of the partners are the regular assessment of their financial and commitments. It is very important, of course, to give strong counsel, as well as to inform members and inform those who are looking for a place to live in. There have been discrepancies, not necessarily with housing partners, but certainly in some places elsewhere. This calls for improvement. I'd like to mention that on the welfare committee, the position of those who buy a home estate or an apartment rights in other forms of society or private institutions or communities owned by such individuals who have offered an option to make a wide amount of anger and thus buy themselves the right to live in apartments. The reasons for these losses can be mentioned here, such as the places on Eir and the same structure on suspect, raven, and elsewhere. It turns out that there is actually some kind of housing rights or home estate that is guaranteed by such partners, which are more or less in a legal vacuum and does not depend on the laws here being changed by housing partners and the laws on automation institutions that work according to the approved management of these materials. I want to draw attention to this, because this is closely related to what we are, in fact, about now, i.e. how we secure the position of those who rely on money to buy a home estate, even though a housing partner is and in other cases where they do so. The results have been disastrous in some places, as they have been known. It must somehow come in a similar way, wherever it should be in the law, whether it will be in the rent or in the law of these institutions, consumer laws, or where to live. Information must be assured, natural consumer protection, and the work being done here, that those taking money from the people in order to do so have a considerable obligation to inform about their financial situation, make an assessment of it, and that they will be monitored to avoid accidents in such areas. The committee has this opinion, but I think it's fine that the Ministry also knows that there's a perimeter or sector, which is actually a legal vacuum. Of course, it is not the meaning of taking away the freedom of the contract to negotiate freely with one another on the basis of contract law or whatever the case may be. Experience teaches us that even life - threatening people and their housing spells them a reliable frame of mind. Otherwise, what a surprise it could be is half enough. Even if housing does not have the proper shapes or equipment, work must also be done to look into situations that are comparable to those of the opposite person. Madam President. Because I have the opportunity to discuss this matter on a health committee committee, I don't see any reason to extend this discussion. To a large extent, this is a technical bill, but important at the same time. Many comments about the bill were received when it was submitted last year, and it went out without even doing anything else. The introduction of a report says that the comments received by a welfare committee were taken into consideration as far as possible, but not further stated in which subject the bill was changed from its previous version in the direction of such comments. Of course, that information can be received in the commission. I'd have thought it'd have been a good idea that someone else's report had been traced to comfort. I'll let my case end this, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u56	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for him reviews and points on the lessons we can learn from earlier things in national housing. It's nice to hear that the senator has long been a member of a housing team. The first thing I would like to do with the senator is this: I seem to have several countries - especially our neighboring countries, the North countries, whom I know the senator is looking much in political context - using this form to a far greater degree than we are as solutions to housing, especially for young people. In many respects, the spirit of Andelligheder, whom we know from our neighboring countries, is more widespread, at least in some of them. See what? A senator of some obvious means that we can move more into bed with us, making it a more appealing option? Other than fixing this frame, I think there's a good reason. I think, unfortunately, there have been too many accidents, both in housing communities, but also in these shapes mentioned by the senator, such as Eir and others who actually fall outside this law frame. I agree with the senator. It is important to consider seriously whether these laws or other laws can be ruled out as well as to be clear rules. But how does the senator feel that we could make housing partners a bigger part of Iceland's housing?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u57	Madam President. That's a very good question. It would be almost reasonable to say that governments, if political intentions are available, foster this form, and care for it; there are many ways to do so. It might be asked: Why should this loss be due to a considerable tax pay from the state and from the community? For those who are making provision to form property on a private property in housing, but not with any tax subsidies for other living forms such as these, as for various reasons, social, and other reasons - to the extent that humans are buying them. Of course, there is something. But there would be other ways. For example, try to ensure that they can make as much money as possible on investments as possible, etc., try to pay the streets of this form to thrive. As I remembered, such hopes were high back then, in the 1980's, and surely this has been an excellent supplement for many in housing. I agree that with the development of events in many nearby lands, this has happened to a lesser extent and has been slower here than you would have hoped. While here in the capital area and in Akureyri, it is true that the facilities that have been added in the form of housing partners were quite remembered. It's a thing well worth looking at. Is there anything that is willing to do to make this form even more accessible to people? I'm sure it's a matter of opinion to the welfare committee on this matter, even though it's basically a technical bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u58	A respectable president. If it is to be understood that politicians have this form of interest and that they want to nurture fellow workers in these matters, is it not, then, how these communities are equal to others? Can I not rightly remember that when a large correction was made to those who have homes in private, these actions did not reach these associates? Now I may not remember right, but what? A senator will correct me if he knows it better. Something seems to me that the government has taken action to help those associates in the subjects we broke down. However, I wanted to ask the senator about this operation's surveillance. Here, for example, it is assumed that it would be forbidden to pay interest on those associates. Is it not important, then, that they be monitored much better and not show these examples of problems they have experienced in recent years that at times both monitoring and guidance have been missing? If such partners or companies are to be banned in welfare services or other activities, is it not necessary to monitor that people do not try to smuggle money out of their peers in any other way; with bills made by other partners or subsidies, which require anything other than remuneration, but are essentially identical?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u59	Madam President. I don't think it's excessive to say that in the past 20 years, bed, with a short period of exception, private housing policy was interrupted and consistently promoted at the expense of other forms. Of course, this went far when the workers'building funds and all of it were basically closed down by social housing in Iceland. With regard to the high debt fallout, one of these very controversial points was when enormous sums of money were arranged to be left behind by members such as these; and the tenants in general as no correction of any kind have been received. It was said that something was coming for them, but now it is a year and a half ago or what it is. It's sitting by it. There's no room for primes from the highest level. Minister. Finally, it is so true that there is a need for supervision. There is little point in setting rules that should achieve specific goals if it is not followed by rules. Now I think that these companies, through publishing their annual accounts, have to show the assessment of the types discussed here. It must be possible to observe that this is done, and there must be some law against it if it is not. I assume that this is the case. These are obligations and obligations that must be handled by the law of money. I'll take a closer look at this and who to monitor that the periodic assessments are done properly, etc. [[The president calls.]] It's a little different depending on who's involved. Because I mentioned the Eir and other such parties - it was supposed to be the county's approval of bets and government reviews, but perhaps more was done by clocks than by personal surveillance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u60	A respectable president. It is no exaggeration to say that not only the council all but the nation, I think, was waiting for the entire terms of this election that is now being passed on in the latter part after seeing some action on the government in housing. Of course, most important for young people and for those with little materially available means of entering the housing market and having been teased by great difficulties, high rent on public markets, and small amounts of resources. It has been said that this group should be met or emphasized by solutions in these areas, but the results have virtually not been extracurricular in the past spring. The focus of the government has been solely on those with their own housing. Thus, it is quite remarkable that what was called correction and was reimbursed in part of the prices paid to those who had been buying housing and the forwarding party, who had a housing business in the government, was motivated by the motivation for reaching only private property but not for the benefits of partnerships. However, as the political party likely based on collective idealism over other categories, they could have claimed that the sect had a position to support fellow workers or at least not to leave them when correctioning the merits of the residence bar of others in the country. So it was now that the housing partners stayed behind, and then the tenants who had certainly had a huge rise in their rent in the crash and inflation that followed but were not corrected for the increases, such as the rest of us who owned our apartment housing. This, of course, shows the political emphasis that the board has in store for the current government during the terms we now see in the end. It is those who have their own dwellings, which have been the primary means of making donations from a wealth of money. The people in the housing partnerships and the tenants in the tenants have been left behind, not even receiving similar support as the people with their homes, but simply not getting a share in this massive operation. This is very sad, but it will not only make rent - rent - rent situation worse but also cause men to be cut off by trying to establish housing partners if it is the government's position that these communities should not enjoy comparable payments, such as when we ourselves buy housing. Therefore, it may not be too serious to accept the minister's words as an important form and to support and strengthen that shape. In effect, the government has simply taken advantage of the provisions it has used in housing, leaving this form behind. In fact, there are refinements and refinements in the legislation that have been given to cover in recent years, but the bill will not lead to an improvement in the provision of such facilities for future losses and even more so when significant measures, such as correction, do not reach such ones. There will not be any incentive to increase the number of such cases. We in the United States have considered it a top priority to resort to housing measures and to have during this ideal period in three different ways provided considerable suggestions on how the council has been introduced and have been named, reviews and ideas that have been put out of all directions. However, the EEA's administrative body has opposed their repeatedly approval and approval at the council with reference to the development of social and housing ministers. This is because, as the next total election nears, there is still no mention of any initials. They're still in the process. If it comes out, if it is approved as a law from the Council, it will be primarily a project for the next government and the next social and housing minister to carry out. Sadly, there will not be much work to be done during this terms, as shown by the fact that it has been over two and a half years of the terms of the term without any initiative in not providing renthouses to any extent, nor in housing companies to some extent. The suggestions we have made during the council are to balance the financial support of the state's funds with those who own housing and those who rent housing. These are suggestions that came to pass during the last term and presented at the end of it, but they failed to legalize the election. It is a great deal of justice that the compensation paid by the state's funds to support householders is the same for those buying homes and renters. The project, of course, is the same. People are just making a home to live in and after experiences with their families. It is quite normal for the government to give people the same amount of money, and in the same way whether they own their apartment or rent on a public market or if they have a house - to - house partnership at their apartment. Even if they are rented, they are even more likely to be strengthened than the rest of us who have been in a position to make our own housing. It's the other way around. We're the people who have a home that gets more support from a government fund than the rest of the tenants get less money from government funds. That is why we have suggested that this simple fairness of mind be legalized, that people get the same benefits whether they are on a lease or in their own housing. Then we have suggested that there be special extra loans to those who are buying for the first time and who need access to the amount of credit so that they can get up to their first apartment. What a fine experience we have in times past and in times past! By the end of the last century, borrowing was as much as 100% in the old labor - farm system for the property of little people to set up a roof over their heads. It was quite remarkable that the people with no money to contribute in housing and who needed to borrow 100% of money would be paid if something was better than the people who had some personal contribution. We have experience that it has been helpful to help those who cannot pay off their own housing markets and suggest that they be given additional loans to help them break down payment and pay it back over a period of years with interest in interest rates and other such support. However, this need to be prioritised on the funds of the state. We have also suggested that the State places around it and especially in the capital area are new to provide tenants to increase rent - house supply at a reasonable price. Sadly, that view has not occurred with the current government. She has stressed that selling these items to the highest will be as if to form a sale on the property of the Kingdom News recently shown. This is actually helping to raise apartment prices as much as possible instead of creating the possibility of building a home in practical terms that can be rented at a reasonable price to be paid to people in need of housing. Similarly, there are suggestions to review the specific requirements in the building order found in our proposals in the United States. There is also some suggestions that support rural society because of the funding of social housing will be the same whether you are going to get loans from an apartment loan fund or the general financial market. Also suggestions for building stocks and a variety of other measures. But as I say, despite the sound sound of these suggestions, many of the members of the council, and those who have received the suggestions, one third of the Parliaments in a row, the board of directors has not allowed any comment to take on these actions except one that we find in the budgets of the Supreme Court. Financial and economic ministers this fall. It is suggested that landlords do not have to pay a full income tax from one apartment they have rented. I understand that it has become part of the proposals of a financial minister in this winter and is then trying to meet the many suggestions offered in the United States by us. This may not have been the first suggestion that we personally would have made. Of course, it would be the suggestions that turn to the tenants of themselves and the young people who have to be given the opportunity to take a place in the apartment market rather than any suggestions offered to the landlord, a respectable president, with all due respect. It must also be said that inaction has not only been in charge of these matters but also of the most powerful housing institutions in the state. We have an apartment loan fund that was once a powerful tool for creating housing resources but is now in an enormously difficult position financially, unfortunately, after many wrong decisions made there in the past. There is still little need for us to see a comprehensive policy on how to solve the financial situation and to make sure that he can offer reasonable provisions for the payment of housing and to live up to the commitments he has made on behalf of taxpayers. But the fund is known to be in grave danger if the loans become considerable. In this case, inactivity has primarily characterized the administration, and our members of the United States under the Board of Congregations, unfortunately, one after another has not trusted in the management of the fund, since they have felt that it was irresponsible to remain in the inactions that exist there in the face of the great problem that in itself has not been done but to grow in the reign of that government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u61	A respectable president. I thank you for the discussion on this subject, which has been most objective because the subject of the bill has been considered. However, I feel that there is reason to go through some of the points mentioned during the discussion and to try to answer them in the best way possible. With respect to discussion. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who was involved in the local rights, is what we have considered very much in the bill about changing the law on housing partnerships as well as on rent payments. If you look at the prehistory, it seems that there is a license to lend money to finance so - called local rights without a special legal basis for it. That's why I've put very much emphasis on, on the work and on the approach I've had, to frame three different options when it comes to housing so that there are no other options than an apartment, a rented apartment, or a camp. I don't think local rights are rights for home to me. We've been trying to frame it better in this bill so that that understanding is guaranteed. Then, when it comes to consumer protection in general and the framework we're creating, it's important that we put in that we're going to buy more than one-third of the market value of the apartment. It was an example of population rights that almost fully financed the apartments, borrowed money, and also received money from the residents without being wrapped around it, but a license was given for certain loan groups. We're trying to do the same thing when it comes to renters. We are saying clearly that it is only allowed to charge three months as a guarantee of success so that people will not put forth more bail than those of three months'rent. As a result, there is a framework of what you can charge for. I encourage a welfare committee to do this well. I don't think people should walk by the law we have in Iceland, where we try to frame the rights of the people through the tenement laws or housing companies by allowing them to call something else names. There are three types of housing that we have, and these are framed and protected when it comes to these factors. In order to improve the information and regulations relevant to selling property, the secretary of industry, responsible for the sale of property, provided a bill. Then they distributed the bill on mortgages to consumers from financial and economic ministers, where we're trying to frame even more clearly how people feel about their largest individual investment that's buying housing. I encourage the committee to cover this well. This is my understanding. The reason we are trying to deal with this is that there is a legal example when there is a disagreement about the local rights, where housing partners have been treated. We're saying that to do that, these partners have to abide by the housing laws. I encourage the committee, if she thinks it's a reason, to sharpen it even more than we've done in the bill as it is now. Regarding the evaluations discussed and the financial status of the partners. Who's going to follow this? The head of the welfare committee, what? paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, spoke of it when the bill first appeared in the spring. I think there is a reason why the committee will also review whether it needs more attention. On the other hand, we stress that the baseline cooperation movement is self-respect when it comes to partners. Members must accept the responsibility of the company and work within the code of law. We've been trying to do what we think is most important, but at the same time, we're saying that much of what has been under law is now making its own decision. A matter before the council has been established, and our focus in the administrative parts on housing matters has been established. When it comes to housing, there are positive signs. We see a great deal of fermentation in the publishing of buildings, e.g. in the capital area. Although we know that it takes some time for men to go to the construction project and finish the building, we can see that the market is taking over again. It is not least based on the fact that we finally see the market value of real estate, i.e. The index is set up for housing costs. As a result, it is still worth building. I think we'll see very significant changes in this in the growth of new housing next year and in the next few years. We prayed for regular releases in real estate, not only to the number of contracts involved, but also to the number of first purchasers. I think it's information that we senators are very concerned about. It is interesting to see that if we compare the figures of the first quarter of 2008 and now quarter of 2015, the first buyers were 2008 23% of all contracts, which are now 22%. This is a marked change from that in the early years after the collapse. We also see that the number of contracts has taken a turn. In the third quarter of 2008, there were 1,682 contracts, but now 2015 is 1,993. So these are positive signs regarding the housing market. We believe that the major action we took to correct our debt, in view of the figures we're taking care of the grossly improved home debt status, in the Northern countries, only the Swedes have a low debt ratio compared to when it comes to housing, making people more concerned about movement. Then we will consider other problems that we may know better, such as when people start to fall into too much debt again. What we are considering with our suggestions is how we can guarantee that we will be here with a fixed stability and build up, but we will not go back into the same debt and that in the years leading up to collapse, we will not be forced to fall back into the same debt. What I often feel about the topic of housing and so many discussions in Iceland is that things have to be black or white, but they are not usually that way. It's usually a bit gray. All of us can find in the suggestions of other classes, which we might well describe and agree. I am absolutely convinced, although the public stand may not be heard often, that the same is true of government opposition. If she's fair, she sees things we're doing, we're doing good. I'm going to mention this, although I haven't done it before, that I felt, for example, that the review of the Council of Business Council on the Council of Congress on Emergency Hospital Action, which was discussed only in the media, was not particularly reasonable. Although they did not accept all the suggestions, they could have made sure that there were positive factors. I think that, if we look at the proposals, we can all agree in a number of ways with the Continent when it comes to housing issues. It emphasizes that rent support will be comparable to that of those who own housing. We have the bill of the material that will appear in the near future, and I set out in spring. Funds are expected on budgets for next year to meet that bill. That proposal is now under the treatment of the council. It has also been noted that in the Conspiracy Conspiracy Directive, taxation has to be relieved of renting. Already there is a proposal in the council, which is part of a government declaration involving collective agreements, regarding the change in how we make donations for individuals. We've also been considering the ideas involved in the cost of these two measures and the economic impact of them, on the other hand, changes in capital income, and on the other hand, renting does not interfere with social security benefits. It will appear in the council soon, as we appreciate the economic impact and the cost of it. Compared with the costs, we are talking about a significant impact by improving the provision of housing because of the proposal already being made at the council regarding changes in capital income taxes. That means a drop in the cost of the state by 400 million. K. To continue, we already have an arrangement that is involved in paying taxes on the basis of the first purchase or in the home state condition that is part of the debt correction, a so - called special savings policy. Not only does it return to its first purchases but it enables those who do not have a place to use their special property savings and get a substantial tax charge to buy a home or a place to live. Then there is a bill on the way, which is also part of our agreement with the labour market partners, on stock contributions, where the government's contributions will be equal to 30% of the stock of an apartment in a new social tenet system that our hope is to become sustainable, so that it will not even need the support of the government when we look back at 30 to 40 years. That bill has been employed in good cooperation with the labour market partners and the European Union. Then there are two groups I can say here that I don't agree with. I don't agree that we're going to give back $90-10% loan. I believe that our experience in and in other countries is not good for having too high a mortgage rate or too high a loan to purchase apartments. I believe the government's support should include supporting smaller families through a new social tenement system and then trying to help people put aside, save, and instead of running some kind of special policy, we have a real special policy. The same principle applies to raising interest costs on loans from an apartment loan fund due to a social tenure. We're going to a new system, where there will no longer be a subsidized interest cost on loans from an apartment loan fund. Rather, it will be in the hands of that partner, a profitless partner. They decide where to borrow. We will offer subsidies for interest costs, but there will be no connection with loans at the apartment loans. Here we see an example of how much more often we should be able to be reasonable toward one another and see what humans are really doing. That's how I think we're going to be a lot better for our country and nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u62	V.E.G. President. I'd like to say first, I can say that there's quite a lot I can say. The minister spoke in his second speech. I also want to make confession that I could not listen to the previous talk because of a long meeting at a town's lunchtime and so have not been able to observe the discussion that was being conducted here, I might discuss the following. V.E.G. A minister brings in a reimbursement from the last council, which was not resolved, which I think is one of the seven prime sites that have been called, and that is such the cheapest for state funds, as it shows in the financial and economic cost assessment that it is not expected that the legislation of the bill will lead to financial expenditures. I think that's why the Minister brings up the bill right before Christmas as one of the seven primes. V.E.G. A minister spoke about other things that seem to be in progress and need to come. But I think, in spite of the discretion of this bill, which takes on certain factors, it is the other bills that are still being worked on that people are waiting for primarily. That's what's going to help out the most. But I thought it was the best. Ministers do well in this regard, including our suggestions in the United States for emergency housing procedures. In the end, she discussed the reasonableness of our efforts to draw close to things. That's right. But it's just not supposed to take so long because we're in a hurry. My question to the highest. Minister, this is the first bill of seven, when do the other bills come? When do we get the bills we're waiting for the most? [[The president calls.]] And people, young people, and others who are at the buying of homes and other things, who need housing and what is left for the most?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions. I'm not quite familiar with this figure seven or seven. A senator mentions. On the other hand, I joined the Constitution of five basic radios that involved housing. Four of them are issues that we have been working on in much and in good collaboration with the labour market partners. Here's the first of those initials. I'm just a little worried about what's been going on in the discussion since the government's opposition on the subject. This case is very important. It is true that there is no direct cost to the government funds involved in this matter. But this will enable members who now have a big plan to move them forward, finish their funding, and start building, thus ensuring a family roof over their heads. I ask the Senate to bear in mind that it is important for this matter to be done quickly, but I also have a clear understanding that the council needs to take what time it takes. The figure may be related to our agreeing and committed to the government in our time to take on very extensive housing measures. Many of that action can be found in the proposals of government opposition. When the bills enter the yet future council, they will also be processed, as is the custom here. I know that already the suggestions for financing, the suggestions for change to the second discussion that reflects the fact that we have stopped giving 3.5% loans we've been giving at the Substitution Fund, the changes in income taxes, the changes in housing improvements, or the official support to the tenants, and, as mentioned, part of our declarations to the labour market agencies was a special loan legislation. So these bills have been in operation for a long time because these are big issues. [[The president calls.]] This is a huge deal, a lot of money, and making mistakes, as we have seen in these big cases.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u64	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. As I say and she also says, this is an important bill for the Generals' message to them, as it describes, who have a great plan for a building in a rented house, no matter whether it's Bústi hsf., Bústir in the northlandshf. ...... as discussed in the bill. I say for what I'm saying: Yeah, hopefully a welfare committee will be able to do it really fast. We're in a hurry to accept the bill. I can't imagine that there's a lot of disagreement. But there's a disagreement over this presumptuous time that's about to bring the big bills. Admittedly, some adjustments are made at 2nd. ... abundant. But the big primes, I said seven, but the highest. Minister says there were five members of the Congress, four more to go. I think this bill is the easiest thing to do for the highest. Minister to come through the government. That's why it's first to come. That's why I'm asking about the other bills. We have heard that in them, as with stocks and other things, financial expenses will be involved. Then the question is, Is it stopping in the government at the highest level? Minister? Does it not give proper support to the government, to the secretary of finance, to the prime minister, and to others, to bring them in primely? We're in a hurry. V.E.G. A minister said it took a long time. Yeah, a lot. Sadly, it is the criticism you have to make. One would like to have a positive view of all the elements that are supposed to improve the public's interest in housing in the country, which is one of the big gradations we know. I will make it a subject of my speech as soon as this counter closes for time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u65	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. As most people know, big projects tend to take longer than you plan. It's been quite a talk, both in this bill and in others. I'd like to use this opportunity and thank the government officials very much for the hard work they've put into it. The government as a whole is saying that the commitment we made in connection with the making of collective agreements in spring. We've all, as shown in the bill, been trying to do our part in order to make it work. Here, for example, comes a new set of provisions that show that people can live in their homes for 12 months despite being responsibly reimbursed, a great improvement for those in their housing companies. This is a law that has so far been under the law of forced sales. We had a very good consultation with the State Department in this regard. I've been through the suggestions made by the secretary of finance to face the premises. Cooperation with the Ministry of finance has also been very good when it comes to handling these matters. We're talking about a big statement that's really important. It simply takes time to do such things. But the bills will appear in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u66	V.E.G. President. I noticed that the minister spoke with a smile about the other bills I asked for. They'll come? Yeah, let's hope so. But it has now been two and a half years of Ministerhood. Secretary of society and housing. [[Up front.]] They're not out yet. Here's one of seven. It's not like we're going to sing, Santa Claus one and eight, it's a housing bill one of seven. But then the Minister corrected me and gave me five primes at the U.S. Congress. Minister. Thanks to the great and good communication network in the country, and including the smartphones and iPads and other information that we members of the Parliament have to support, I've been informed that at the head of Congress. Ministers are seven primes, not five, as it says. Now I think the highest. Minister must be about to count and collect on the Constitution. We need to find out if there are four or six primes left. [[Flmrh.: I said in the fall council. Here, for Christmas.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u67	Not a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u68	Okay, that might be the explanation. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. As I said in the past, it's this bill that doesn't account for any of the financial expenses, which first comes from the five at the autumn or seven in the Senate, if we've decided. This bill is listed and does not have any expenses for a trust fund. This bill is undoubtedly, as I said before and the highest. A minister speaks of, to a great degree, improving the correcting of these laws for housing partners, who are planning to build. There should be a lot of legal compensation here, or let's say housing benefits to people who choose rent and have to be on rent to begin with. I think it's all good. But I say again that there's been criticism, and it's really annoying that you have to be critical, because on this matter we should try to get to the most solidarity. Then I'm criticizing how long it takes to bring these bills. Now this bill comes just before Christmas, and will certainly not be completed by Christmas, and could take place until the end of the council in spring, I don't know, but I hope there's a faster work and more solidarity and not much to be turned into the bill. Plenty of time has taken. As I say and note in comments, the law of No. 66/2003, about housing partnerships, with subsequent changes, all of that, and testified to the fact that this was during Congress resolution No. 1/142, on action due to domestic debt problems, approved at the General Assembly of June 28, 2013. Today is November 27, 2015. We haven't gotten this through yet. That's what I'm critical of. But I also want to say that I want to give the highest. Minister of housing all the support and strength of achieving this through the government. The last ones who will come will not have written from the financial office that they will lead to any financial fees. It's like we're building the ultimate wage. A minister was talking about earlier. Then I come to the very ambitious and big plans on the roads of Reykjavíkurburg and various other rural communities, especially in the capital area, about to attack a major effort in building a rented apartment where we will be building what we most need into this market, a small apartment, which, of course, will become less expensive, both in a building and to buy, and as a smaller tenant for rent. Young people who are starting farming and who do not have children in their home can be content with smaller apartments and thus reduce expenses, as I was able to do earlier. There is truly a great difference between people who can do that, though I say we must always have rent houses as well. Recently, I heard an excellent example of young people renting for 110 of you. K. per month. They had taken great care of their youth and had used money, up to that time baptismal gifts, barbaric gifts, and those that had been brought together to work and not spent. Then these people could buy an apartment, a 65 m2 apartment, quite suitable and fine size, for 20 million. K. at the same time. The payout was 4 billion. K., who was good and they were, they also received some help from parents. Then, at that time, a debt of 16◯17 million stood. The payoff of this 16 million today is 85◯90 B.C.E. K. But what's a pleasure is that in spite of growth reforms, you are entering your 600 to 66650. K. as a result of growth, there are about 350 thousand each year, about 30 of them. K. per month. And now I gave up this combination by ending my saying that there are people in a safe house, there's no chance that they'll be dumped. It's got a fixed place. The home is the best and safest stronghold for each person. Instead of being in a rented market with 140 points. K. and can be exposed to insurance, etc. This is where I come to what I've always talked about, and I'll tell you that I'm shot at a council deal that a couple of candidates recently made, but I'll tell you, it's just a pact proposal, to come out and meet young people when it comes to the down payment. Just as we're supposed to make a suggestion that we cohesives proposed in emergency procedures that we called the first action on housing, to make that way. I still don't know how long it'll take. That people can rent out one apartment without paying for it. Or, like, the highest. One minister said that older people may be able to rent houses without compromising their salary from insurance institutions and pensions and others. This is a very quick way to get results. Just as I hope this bill will cause large numbers of buildings to be rented without the most enormous interest requirements, as we generally see in the market. I come back to Reykjavík's great, ambitious plans to work on this home problem, housing shortage, wooful high rent prices, and high-sufficiency. Reykjavíkurburg is waiting for this founding bill to continue at full cost. What I have seen from the mayor, in meetings, is planning, organizational changes, and other activities that include building these small and medium - sized apartments, and that work is now over. So now it's at the highest. Government, commander. Minister of housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u69	A participant wants to pause his speech. The president wants to ask for a silence in the side room and either sit at the top. Ministers in the chamber, listening to discussion, or not seeing other meetings with their helpers or others in the hall. It is not appropriate that there is as much disturbance in the chamber as there was in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u70	Thank you for that, chief. Mr. President, which makes me feel that I don't need to sound my voice as loud as I can get to the top of my ears. Minister. But I was talking about this ambitious, good plan in Reykjavík, and I would love to hear it from the highest level. Minister on that. Then there is the impatience that can be heard in my speech here on the other openings that have been called and everyone is waiting. I was asking the highest. A minister on the scene because Reykjavíkurburg is prepared with property, shared organization, and what all of this means to start off but claims to be waiting for the government'sitors who have been announced, whether they are five or seven. I used an example earlier of young people who were fortunate enough to have money to pay and thus get into a shelter and have a secure home, but not everyone. You see, there are a lot of people who don't have those 20%. That's the biggest problem, in my opinion, for young people. Plus, there are far too few small inexpensive apartments at the market for young people who may be just two at first, as usual. That people may be able to walk out of that home and perhaps grow when babies are born and more numerous in the family, etc. This is the biggest problem today. As a result, so many people are rented, and so many are biting over each apartment that the prices go out of control. It's the nature of the market. I've watched ads about renting an apartment that wasn't very large, with 120 applications coming. That three - room apartment, perhaps a year and a half ago, went to 220 grand at that auction market. It's almost like a marauder market. This is what I wanted to say about this little bill here that can change a lot, and it seems to be a positive thing to me. I hope it's going well, but I keep asking, "What's the deal with the other bills? I'll finally say, "I think we can get together on these things. " I'm afraid there's a government priority on financial expenses, that's why they don't come in, they're on the beach with a minister. If my suspicions are right, it's the usual way for the Minister of the State that doesn't get through having some groups work a little longer and go through something better. I hope you don't. But I still call for it from the highest. Minister to receive a clear message about when the six primes will appear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u71	A respectable president. Constitution No. 362 includes the implementation of European Parliament Directive and Council No. 77/2011, dated 27 September 2011, of the change in Directive 116/2006, of the protection period of the authors' due and certain related rights taken up in XVII. An appendix, a mental rights executive, to the European Economic Area Convention by decision of the joint EEA No. 94/2013 of 3 May 2013, of which August 1st, 2014 The Council has earlier discussed the implementation of the directive in Icelandic, as per the review of the General and Education Committee for Conferences, day after day. October 15, 2012. Then, on December 4, 2013, the decree was discussed in comments on the proposals made to the Council of Congress of 3/143, as per a proposal for a Senate resolution of 77th. According to 1st mg. 2.g. The directive was to introduce it in Member States later than November 1, 2013, but the EEA/EFTA countries were granted a delay to August 1, 2014, to implement the directive. The Icelandic government received a formal announcement from the EFTA Institute for Decision, dated November 12, 2014, starting with a delay in the implementation of the European Directive in Icelandic. The Agency published a short opinion on Iceland's contract break-off to the EEA Convention 8 April 2015 for not allowing the directive to be implemented in Icelandic rights. EFTA announced on November 4, 2015, the decision that Iceland should be taken to the EFTA Court because of the above mentioned violations of the EEA Convention. The bill suggests that the directive should be implemented by a change of 43. ....................... gro, 46. gr. and 63rd pars. current author song. In addition, it is suggested that the legislation be added three new articles, which will be a-at 47.g. to c-arms 47. g. A respectable president. The changes proposed to the authors of the bill take into account the following: 1st It is suggested that the calculation of the text - based protective periods so that the time of music and song lyrics will be 70 years from the death of the one who lives longer, whether it is a composer or a writer. 2. The bill suggests an extended protection time in audio recordings as follows: a. That protection time for the rights of artists to audio recording of the exports of those who have been published or made available to the public is extended from 50 years to 70 years, calculated from version date, or when audio recordings were made available to the public. b. The same change is made to the appropriate recordings of audio recordings that have been published or made available to the public. 3. The extension of the time of the audio recording is accompanied by a new arrangement on the rights of artists for the annual additional approval of a long protection period. The additional approval should correspond to 20% of the amount of revenue produced by the manufacturer of the audiograph due to an extended duration of protection. 4. The bill includes a new arrangement that allows an artist to divulge a contract of rights if the relevant rights are not used to a sufficient degree. 5. Finally, in the bill there is a special set of validation regulations to determine the extent to which the changed rules will be applied to current rights and future contracts. A respectable president. The bill I recommend here includes an important requisition for artists who now receive a 20 - year extension for the part of their lifetime income from the use of recordings. The bill shows that each section of the bill is covered in detail and that I have considered beyond what I have reached in my speech. It should be noted that EFTA will closely monitor the progress of this bill at the General Assembly, as delay for the implementation of the directive has been completed and the case has already been referred to by the EFTA Court. After that, I suggest that the bill be after 1st. O.R., a respectable president, referred to what. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u72	A respectable president. Here's a bill for the legal grant for showing films in the theaters here, a so-called ticket grant. The bill is written at the Ministry of Education and Culture in agreement with the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs. The purpose and purpose of this bill is to establish the terms of a policy agreement for Icelandic filmmaking and film culture in 2012 (in 2012)2015. The bill suggests that filmmakers will be strengthened by showing movies in Icelandic languages in order to offset the effects of the pressures of worth tax on the entrance to Icelandic films that came up in 2013. On December 8, 2011, the Ministry of Education and Culture, the Department of finance, the Union of Icelandic Filmmakers, the Filmmakers' Association, and the film director's Association made an agreement on the policies for Icelandic filmmaking and film culture in 20123/42015. For example, the meeting meant removing annull tax from the commercial sales of Icelandic films as well as taking in tickets. Support for film making is considered a state aid in the understanding of chapter 2 of the EEA Convention and in the implementation of state support, EFTA countries must be careful not to discriminate against candidates with regard to their nationalities. As a result of Iceland's commitments under the EEA Convention, it was not possible to meet the agreement according to the content and pay a ticket grant which was reserved only for Icelandic films, i.e. Only images produced by Icelandic sources. After sending to ESA, it was found that the Agency was interested in studying all the film fund funding and evaluating the development of changes in the system since 1994 that included spontaneous changes. ESAs adopted March 26, 2014, new national support guidelines for movies and other audio and media services. On this occasion the Agency directed recommendations to the EFTA countries to adapt their auxiliary systems to new regulations for September 18, 2016. Movie Acts and Movie Funds are now considered by movie council, including a film board. with the intention of adapting the system to state support regulations for that deadline. As a result of an ongoing review of films, where a future structure is planned, it is appropriate to establish the agreement, in a special law, a temporary display strength aimed at bridgeing the gap until new films are accepted. A respectable president. I expect the case to be followed by this discussion referred to a second issue. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u73	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the laws of the National Institute of Natural Nature and Nature and the Protection of Lake Mey and Laxár in the Southern County. The bill contains changes in the above laws due to the cohesion of the Natural Research Centre at Mey Lakes and Iceland's Natural Institutes and, on the other hand, changes in regulations are considered on the location of the European Natural Institute of Nature and its management. In November 2014, an environment and resource management team was started and was appointed to perform a basic study and monitoring study development. Among the scenarios that the group examined was the integration of the European Natural Institute of Nature and the Natural Research Centre at Lake Mey. The main executives to the core of this project were to aim for separation between study and monitoring projects and administration, however, the Agency's implementation. In addition, a clear view of what research and monitoring of the land's nature was considered to be the right thing to do for the institutions of the Environment and Resource Ministry. The conclusions of the operating group provide suggestions on uniting the National Institute of Natural Nature and the Natural Research Centre at Lake Messia. The Natural Research Centre is a unit of work with two employees and has an extensive share of its work with the work of the European Natural Institute of Nature. In view of the result of the operating group, the bill suggests that these two institutions will be united. However, I'd like to state that the research center is scheduled to remain at Lake Lake, and it is not expected to change the operation, but to promote it and create a more reliable framework as part of a larger government agency. Such unity should benefit both institutions. Its natural research center at Lake Mice alone is not enough; it is to fulfill the many administrative obligations to which government institutions are to be carried out. Iceland's Institute of Natural Science has facilities, equipment and personnel needed to carry out the project and ensure the construction of the Agency. Together, therefore, housing, equipment, and staff are especially viewed as compatible. The main aims of together are: First, to promote policy-making and planning on research and monitoring; second, to improve research and monitoring; fourthly to improve research status and increase the support of data collection in the Moy-Lax-year range and sectoral development; third, to promote cross-cutting activities and to improve information and services; fourthly to improve research status and to improve the quality of the data collection in the Moy-Lax year range; thirdly to improve and improve the provision of information and services, including information on the nature of the CEE and Lax year; sixth, to improve the capacity to meet the legal and international commitment; to improve the quality of information and improve the development of the development of the environment; to improve the development of the development of the environment and development of the environment. The natural study center at Lake Mey has been standing for monitoring and testing at Lake Mey and Salmon for four decades. The region attracts many tourists, and it also fosters a large number of lives that uses its natural resources. It is therefore urgent that the Agency continue to strive for a front order and that continuous follow-up of nature will continue and that the important scientific and educational work there will be further strengthened. The bill also contains changes in the laws on the European Natural Institute of Nature that focus on the location of the Agency and its management. According to the current law, the Agency can build up by up to five institutions, each having an independent budget. In addition to installing in Reykjavík, a minister can authorize one set per quarter. Setrin has been two since the law went into effect, one in Akureyri, and another in Reykjavík, in 2010. A report by the National Review of November 2010, on the management and financial review of Iceland's Natural Institute of Nature, shows that the Agency's present system of governance is unduly complex, with its size and responsibility not clear enough. It is unusual to have independent funds and that their managers have a measure of independence in policy and financial matters. This would bring them a measure of authority regardless of the authority and responsibility given to the director by a minister. Government review considered it undesirable to bind the administration and organization of the institutions by law and regulations and suggested that the establishment of the division be replaced in order to correct the limitations of the administrative structure and that the Agency be granted complete funding. Following the President's review, the Agency's management organization was modified by the National Institute of Natural Science in 2005 and was put down in practice. Instead, there was a department organization where the heads of the management department directly submit to the director of the Agency. So the changes proposed in the bill of my recommendation here are in full agreement with the government policy of not strategizing governance and organisational organisations of the law of the institution but of using consistent general regulations. A respectable president. I've traced this bill's main subject. I suggest the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u74	Mr. President. I'm primarily going to make this bill a part of the bill that turns to a change in the law on the protection of Lake Myy and Laxár into a topic of talk. I see no reason to have strong opinions about the changes in Iceland's Natural Institute of Nature other than what it has to do with this planned union of RAMY and the Natural History Institute. To be honest, I'm a little surprised to say the highest. In view of the circumstances in the matter, a minister should deliver a bill with this content. This is a chapter of the bill's article on page 18. 5 dealing with consultations. I'm sorry, but I have to allow myself to express my opinion that it is counterargument when it comes to consultation with the locals in the Laxár and Moy's reservations. I know that it has been passed through one meeting held at the beginning by a group of representatives of rural society and the Northeast Institute for Nature. At that meeting, although there was a short time to prepare it from among the local people, they still made their stand on which they had agreed. It is totally contrary to the highest. Minister says so. In other words, there is a rich agreement among the locals, rural governments in the region, and the North East Museum that this unity will not exist and that the Moy Lake research center will continue to be an independent agency. That's not for good reason, I'll tell you. I think it is inevitable to review the history of this case in order to see how it has grown. The Law on Protection of Laxár and Waters, including the provision of an independent research center at Lake Myy, to be located there, is a reconciliation in the Salmon Year's Controversy, one of the most intense environmental issues and the most severe of the time in Iceland. It was historical events and momentous events that would have and still have an impact on this class. The issue was as hard as it is to be known, and those who want to learn more about it can handle it with a fine film, the movie Flash, or read books that have been written and master's essays on this dispute. Happily, however, the government and the local people eventually became reconciled. They were then sealed with celebrations and receptions at the Presidency. Laws on protection of salmon and Lake Mey were set up, and the laboratory set up. Ever since then, local people in this area have wanted to be a very devoted defender of this reconciliation. Rarely has there been a change in the Law on Protection of Salmon years and Lakes, they have always made a requirement not only for such changes but also a agreement to be made in spirit that this is part of a legal reconciliation and carried out in a given way. This was the case, for example, when the boundaries of the reservation were changed and the appearance of a lakeland park was about to become a reality that the local people had to approach it with exactly the same attitude, that an agreement should be felt as to how the boundaries of the reservation would be changed. I allow myself to assert that local people are still very rich in this regard. That is why I would have thought that in view of the opposition that the locals presented, and clearly explained, the rural communities have now followed up, including the delivery of letters to us council members, would have been a minister. This is simply not an enough - important reason to do so in opposition to the local people that a group of service officials came to this fine conclusion. There is also material and strong evidence that the research center at Lake Moriscos is the best source of independent unity. It needs to be on the water bank and nowhere else. The research center is absolutely essential to its work because of good cooperation with farmers and fishermen in the lake of Mice and the local people and the inhabitants of the area. There is no other way for these studies to work, for there is an important knowledge and knowledge that are equally connected with native living in the region, fishing in the water, and so forth. It is not good to start creating disagreements when there is no greater need than the one presented here. Homemates point out the potential for promoting the cooperation of the research centre and the Northeast Museum, which has been highly ambitiously built in recent years, is one of the largest if not the largest living room, and has been active in the pursuit of tasks and funding, and is doing monitoring projects and research that are very close to the work of RAMP, such as monitoring tasks in the bird sector. I think it's an option to look at and compare. Just like the experts at the Institute of Natural Nature, researchers at Lake Mey also work with various university experts, as well as with experts in the Department of Natural Sciences. This section contains pure basic research in biology, the bottom animal life of the water, and its main experts even in university institutions as much as in the Natural Institutes or the Natural Institutes. Homemates have also developed plans that I don't know exactly where they are going or how well the Environment and Resource Ministry is informed of what might be a very desirable option to combine in one place at some kind of centre for the activities of other institutions, many of which, in fact, would hear under the Environment and Resource Ministry. So it is that in the area of the Lakeland, Lake Earth, land transplants, and other people are represented or employed, which could be very enjoyable or pragmatic to see united in one place. Not long ago, I went over it with a platoon manager and an odd-minded Strulleep, and they informed me that they were very interested in such ideas. It may be a very helpful option for small organisations and monographers or few workers, even though they are part of larger institutions to get into bed with others who work in related areas and a practitioner's solution for housing, services, and other activities. So there are many other possibilities that I think should be considered before the final decision to change from the present arrangement. I'm gonna let me believe it, and I'd love to get to the top. The minister confirmed that the will to strengthen the research station at Lake Moriscos is not limited to going this way. I'm just hoping that this isn't the kind of thing that has been done with the yellowing root and the green forests, but only if the government's will for organizational change is involved, so much like what has happened with the National Farming University of Innunk, where he was now to flourish and thrive as never before and was suddenly willing to promote him if he was ready to be united with the University of Iceland. Otherwise, it does not seem to be in that case. I hope there's no such thing here. Of course, I appreciate the will and know that the locals also do so in order to improve the research in the area and the research in Lake Mey Lake and Laxá. I could use some. Of course, there are many things that have been going on in the biosphere, such as falling into the pale powder and much of the bullet poop is about to disappear. They need to be investigated. We're under obligation, not only by these laws, but by Ramsar and some of the best pearls in Iceland's nature, where there's a Moy water band and Laxá. I feel then, if there is a will, no matter what method exactly will be used, at least at least the second choice in the position recommended by the locals is examined and compared before any final result is obtained. In fact, I believe the facts in front of us that this is in opposition to the will of all the local communities and other parties are reason enough to stop and not do this. It is not successful to treat these matters in a conflict with them. This is, in fact, not true, since it could be said that governments were breaking down in their own sense and, in part, the reconciliation that set down the Salmon years of conflict. I wanted it to be right through the 1st. about the matter, hoping that it will at least lead to a slow glance at its viewpoint and recovery. It is expected to be the environment and transport committee, which will consider the situation and, of course, it is in good hands there. But it's very important, and I believe that I speak it not only for myself, but for other members, for the sake of the matter, that the local viewpoint will be kept in mind and with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A heartfelt speaker for his fine talk on this subject. First, I'd like to agree with the senator that I thought it would be a progressive step that we could join us in one intensive research center there, as well as in other parts of the country. My mind stands very strong in order to promote a work that is in general by getting scientists to work, often isolated, or a little landless, so that we could establish such institutions. I agree with every word. A senator said so. But, of course, it's bigger than it is here. Then I'd like to say that the idea I gave earlier, about the unity of these research organizations, is not an order or a decision from above. This is the request of these institutions themselves who turn to the Ministry for this assignment. This is especially because the RAMLY, or Moy Lake research center, which is a two - man station, thinks that all too much time goes from scientific work to accounting, office service, and all sorts of extracurricular activities that we are more demanding to reveal our institutions; that it is all too much work, considering that there only two employees are working there. It is this institution itself who wants to connect with the National Institute of Natural Sciences of Iceland and believes that by doing so, it will strengthen and promote its activities and thus further concentrate on the research work at Lakes and Laxá and, especially, in the process of further research work within a major organisation. The work there may also be a little isolated, packed up in a box over the wintertime, and others do not have the same access to the fine data available. Therefore, for further innovation, or for the help of nature there, we all profit from the wish of this union from both of these rulers. I think it's a great gain and almost unique thing in Iceland, in all the unity talks we've been through in the Parliaments, that it's the bosses who come looking for advice and ask for unity. I traveled to Lake Mice for the summer, and I spoke with local authorities and also the director of a natural room in the Northeast, in Húsavík, and, of course, I heard it, and most certainly, with a boss, that he wanted to be united. But, you know, parks are in the community, like I know what to do. A senator knows, who has far better perspective and knowledge of how they came into existence than the one who stands here. We could not be manipulated in such a way that they would be in this uniting process. I really hope that I can assure the senator and the Senate that we are not going to interfere with this operation in Lake Mey, have said that and would like the Agency to be in very good cooperation and cooperation with nature institutions. But we can succeed here at the General Assembly in creating an even more advanced research agency with other institutions at Lake Moy's when I exist.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u76	Mr. President. I'm glad to hear it. For example, a minister makes it clear that this will be possible to unite in understanding, move to the same place, or compare with the activities of other members of that sector to distribute, in order to become a more powerful center, and with the environment thus developing. Men have been trying to do so in many parts of the earth. For example, there is New World and Cape Hornfjord, where people have moved to the same roof a variety of activities that create a whole different working environment, another working environment, a different community, instead of monotonous work. It would be interesting to look at that way, and I know that this is the way the locals think. Teamwork with other parties, including the basis of service contracts as a small institution such as RAML could do about various services, is obviously a useful option. I can't see, for example, that the RAMY made a service agreement with a plant in the Northeast, and from there provided a special service, even though they run the responsibility of the rural community, with considerable financial support from the state against the rural communities. It is obvious that unity would not work because there are two responsibilities, but cooperation, even contractual cooperation, could very easily do so. Even though we are RAMÝ few in number, we know it well, it still has a hat on a wide range of research projects in the area, scientists from abroad, universities, and many others. It has its advantages, and it is the locals' will that it be done there at home. The research of the Agency itself is simply impossible to work differently than in good cooperation with landowners and localists and farmers and those who use nature. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That agreement must not be corrupted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u77	A respectable president. I say that I hope that the good spirit that prevails will remain here. I cannot help but agree with the senator that, of course, a service agreement can be concluded, and now committees will be naturally called to our guests and to our viewpoints. Perhaps we can conclude that we can produce a New World by Lake Morisco. I'd be very excited about that. So the senator sees that the subject of mind is in line with the fact that in the Council plan presented on climate, there was now one of 16 projects there to further strengthen the research of the Cape.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u78	Mr. President. I want to end up saying so that there is no misunderstanding on the subject that the views I have put out here have nothing to do with the quality of Iceland's Institute of Nature and RAMP, and I understand the position of the directors and especially the position of the directors of RAMY. It follows that it is challenging to be an independent organization with such a small backland in caring for the administration and the like. Of course, there is the danger that scientists who are primarily interested in their research become a sort of folder animal because of administrative activities and paperwork. However, try to see which avenues are most likely to be resolved. I'm going to be honest with you and admit that I have advantages too. It is true, of course, that there would be a much more powerful person responsible for this operation, which would be Iceland's Natural Science Institute, and there are some additive factors. But in order for you to be there, there would have to be a good deal of agreement about it and that air around what I think is going to have to be. While that is not the case, I suggest that all possible routes of action be taken slowly and carefully examined in these areas. It is always possible to make the final decision later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u79	A respectable president. I did not say earlier that there is already a cooperation contract with a nature agency in the Northeast of 2004. LEMPL has had extensive cooperation with institutions and bodies. It has been a leading goal for them to do so. It is, of course, time to renew it, but there are agreements with one of seven institutions, a hunting facility, the National Institute of Geography, an monitoring team working at the HI Institute of Biography, a Life and Environmental Science Agency, a collaborating agreement with Hóla school and a natural agency in the northeastern country, a declaration of RAMY and HI on cooperation and cooperation with the HI Office for Visiting in 2011. So they've been working hard, and I repeat for the third time: We hope we can strengthen and strengthen this work further. I agree with the Senator. Nature at Lake needs it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u80	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct any change in various laws on taxes and charges. For the most part, these improvements and adjustments in terms of the implementation of tolerated law and will not have a meaningful effect on the survival of the state funds combined, will be subject to law. First, there is a suggestion that a so - called volume rule in income tax laws, which, among other things, determines whether the profits of the home sale are considered taxable, are not valid for personal use. So if the bill is legal, the taxable profits paid on the sale of an apartment house to yourself will only depend on the time of ownership, but if you've owned an apartment house for a full two years, the tax - free market is available. Today, this tax freedom is limited by the total tax pay of a part of the house, which is more than 600 cubic feet [600 cu m] per person or 1,200 cubic feet [1,200 cu m] of a married couple. The removal of the volume rule will have negligible impact on the state funds. income tax laws require that, from the income laws and from the revenues of human businesses, individual donations and contributions to churches, established euthanasia, culture, political parties, and scientific research jobs, not more than 0.5% of the year given. It is suggested that the percentages will be changed from 0.5% to 0.75% as well as that gifts for congregating and self-reliant organizations that work in the public interest will be avoided by genetic taxes in order to reduce the State's support of these organizations and institutions, or perhaps, rather, to make the funds more able to raise money from the community, industry, and in a number of cases, to disproportionately place such societies on certain properties. This will reduce the need for additional government support and will make it easier for the Buddies to make money. The reduction of genetic taxes from donors to charity and the increase in the share of legalization will reduce the income of the state's budget, but it is estimated to be more than 100 million. K. On the contrary, the benefits of a social activity that will be undeniably appreciated for an accurate dollar. But the bill, of course, assumes that the benefits are beyond those sacrificed. In so many areas of society, our main focus is that we do not often consider how much it can divide, both when people often face peril, Icelanders, and tourists. They test societies like Landsbourg. Such and other organizations throughout the country play a vital role. This adjustment helps them to meet the financial cost of the work. Third, the bill suggests that if you have a twofold tax agreement or another international contract, such as an information exchange or collection contract between states in the case of cross-border fusion, a partner would not be obliged to make a deposit if it was postponed in the head tax pay as per income tax. With law No. 142/2013 was modified on regulations 51.g. Tax tax laws dealing with the tax treatment of the partner fusion process followed by the judgment of the EFTA Court in December 2013. Following the sentence, income taxes were changed in terms of country rules, regardless of whether fusion is taking place within or outside Iceland. However, a so - called exodus tax is expected to cross-border, but payment for five years is permitted to be postponed on the cut-off tax system. The European Commission of EFTA, ESA, has now sent a rational opinion, dated November 11, where the Agency believes that in the case of two-fold tax agreements or other international agreements between countries in the case of cross-border fusion, it should not be obliged to submit bank insurance in the case that a partner has received an off payment on tax pay. To meet ESA opinion, it is suggested that in such cases the company will not be obliged to submit bank insurance. It is an involuntary change based on current rights and is not expected to lead to an impact on the expenses and income of the state's funds. It is also suggested that income tax laws be added to tax-based treatments for the division of partner and privateisation of cross-border parts, cross-border transfers, or their property, and the transfer of individual sharers in a private cross-border enterprise. This is also to be done in order to meet the above ESA comments. The bill suggests that income taxes will be changed in terms of the same rules in this country regardless of whether any unions take place within or outside Iceland. However, a cross-border tax is expected to be paid, but it is permitted to postpone the payment of the tax paid for a fraction of five years cut off. As a result of this change, Iceland's tax payment rights are guaranteed on unsolved profits produced in the operation of this country. Next, there's something about taxation on the fusion of stocks and investment funds. The bill expects unions of stocks and investments to be permitted without bringing taxation to the owners of broken funds. The few shares of the card are simply the equivalent of its share certificates in the available funds, so this does not result in taxable income. Since these funds are founded and fired by a business partner but are not an independent legal body, those who are such have neither taxable rights nor carry their own tax dues. The adjustment is not thought to lead to an impact on the expenses and income of the state's funds. They suggest that the benets of foreign artists involved in the payment of others for their travel and living expenses will not be counted for them. Those who make payments for foreign artists must have a standard payment of income and return to the state's funds. The legal deportation and payment of foreign artists is their complete payment in this country without any deduction, nor is there any further decision or procreation unless there is a tax obligation for a fixed national work post. In view of the fact that travel costs are generally detracted from artists'income, which carry non-employable tax obligations and for the equality reasons, the travel and living costs of foreign artists are therefore not deemed to their credit. Government funds will be reduced in some way because of this change, which is considered to be negligible. In addition, the bill suggests that the regulations of income tax laws be eliminated that, when it comes to the evaluation of foreign property, tenants should be considered to be its due value, but the tenant difference in real estate values and price prices. The law is an old-time inheritance when an income tax has been established and is proposed to remove the law, including with simplicity on tax returns and forwardee responsibilities in mind. It is not expected that the change will affect the expenses and income of a government fund. The bill suggests that the head of state taxation will be authorized to decide that the number of non-employees in general should be electronic and that the treatment will be electronic as appropriate from January 1, 2016. There is already a legal warrant where the head of the government can decide that legislators and those who operate independently should submit tax returns electronically. By the pressure of 2015, 99.74% were e - mailed, thus entirely out of print. Thus, more electronic contributions should be made to reduce tax costs. The introduction to a standard tax information channel is the next item of the bill I want to explain. The bill suggests changes in income tax laws that allow the head of the state to call for further information in line with international tax exchange commitments and permission for Ministers to set up more detailed guidelines on the implementation of the information collection. In July 2014, a new standard of information exchange was adopted by OECD as well as by a pattern adopted by a two - side agreement between local governments on how this information exchange should be handled. Then, in October 2014, I signed a statement at a meeting of OECD in Berlin on the recording of a new uniform international tax exchange. More than 90 countries have committed themselves to introduce the above standards, which involve a broad exchange of information from all financial institutions located in the relevant contract state, in favor of income gains, accounts status, and information as to who are their real owners. These regulations are not thought to lead to an impact on expenses and financial income. The tenth change I make in terms of due tax returns. Based on the opinion of the Trustee of the General Assembly, from April 10, it is suggested that a decision on the due date of reimbursement be made on the date of the decision. An additional budget will then fall to pay days after the date of the government taxpayer's decision to raise the increase ten days after the currency was announced according to the current law, or on the day that an announcement might have been made based on the results of the Council's agent. The bill suggests changes in income tax laws in terms of public pay collection. The changes are that preimbursement and its posts will be divided into dues that no less money will be paid at any rate than 5 of yours. K. The minimum amount of money to collect the Parliament's fees is now 2 o'clock. K. That amount has remained unchanged for a long time, so it is suggested that the minimum will be raised to 5 of you. K. But that amount will remain at the minimum of the interest level of children and interest. A respectable president. The publication of tax cards is expected to be suspended from January 1, 2016; instead, the government tax manager will provide information about personal discounts and its use in local pay year and per pay period. The failure of tax cards should be unchanged to reduce tax costs as well as to promote simplicity and greater efficiency. How happy we are that we are taking this step! The tax cards have caused some problems. Many know that they have had to collect tax cards at one workplace and move the next one, between the paypayers, but with these changes the tax cards are canceled. The bill suggests that financial companies who have the permission to trade will be overlooked from local pay of money under the laws of tax pay on funds, such as banks, savings, and credit companies. This waiver has not reached stock companies which lead to the maintenance of a capital tax when the stock market is a business enterprise, i.e. Residents of funding, even if they are only represented by their clients. In this way, open - minded rules have created unnecessary complications and, in some cases, abnormally binding. However, it is reasonable to conclude that this proposal is submitted to all financial companies who have the right to trade. The bill then points to adjustments in terms of insurance pay. A foreign payer is obliged to pay an insurance fee from his employee's salary. On the other hand, it is not permitted to oblige a foreign payer to deliver the payment of an insurance bill in this country except in exceptional circumstances. Thus, pay which is thus paid by a foreign employee in the country does not make up a stock for insurance. The bill assumes that a foreign payer will be authorized to pay insurance fees for his employee in this country to prevent him from becoming free from the rights of this country for which payment according to the law on insurance costs is essential. It can be assumed that with changes in this noted wealth of government to increase slightly. However, there is no information on how many people will benefit from the warrant. It is then suggested that the day of stress for public pay on individuals be hurried to release the application at June/July each year instead of the end of July. It is also suggested that the deadline will be extended from 30 days to 60 days from the date of the end of ads. It is better to assume that a lawsuit is longer than at this point, since the end of the trial is miscomputed to be in the middle of a vacation period. So the end of a trial would be at the end of August, as has been the case. It should be noted that no decision has been made to alter the collection process of public pay next year in connection with that change, such as collecting posts, reimburse overcrowding taxes, or paediatric and growth reforms. A respectable president. Finally, there are three changes to customs. First, it is suggested that the term toll crew be re-defined to customs in a way that would be considered to be within the limit of the task as a minister by a general principle in the Regulation. The concept of customs is defined today as a location, port, or airport, where it is permitted to ferry and unload and store and tolle products from them without special authority. The secretary must then decide by regulations where the customs should be. If the change is approved, customs officials will no longer be connected to harbors or airports but will primarily depend on the needs of the job and the ability to maintain adequate to-do customs. Second, it is suggested that, in view of the importance of passenger surveillance information and development in the use of information to prevent serious crimes, the right of the customs manager is tipped off to get information. To ensure the effectiveness of the information-related activities, toll managers will be allowed to employ administrative fines if there is insufficient information. The terms of the bill suggested here to be added to customs laws include all passenger information, whether it is provided by airplanes or by ships. It is to be expected that countries will demand to deliver this kind of information in the near future, including due to the current events, the last days and weeks, in which air traffic monitoring and shipping are increasing, border monitoring is increasing, and the Icelandic government has to be equipped to collect and cooperate with the information being provided. Finally, changes in tolls are proposed with the goal of furthering the requirements to be met in order to have atoll storage facility authorized, and particularly in the case of the purpose of the management, not to give to others the services involved in such waste management. In the event of a proposal, toll managers will only be allowed to give them tax safe permission to store tax payable and non-employed products in the same space in a warehouse that works in order to provide to others the services involved in such waste management. The agreement of the proposal will put some pressure on the opportunities of sales companies to run a customs store in their own warehouse. On the other hand, the change will contribute to the competitiveness of such enterprises as it enables governments to ensure efficient and efficient customs monitoring of the management of customs. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee and the 2nd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u81	Mr. President. For example, there is no reason to have many words about them or to cry out at the highest level. The financial secretary to whom this is, in many parts of the tax law and, in most cases, in large cases, in the case of a significant change or change affecting the income of state funds, etc., as stated in the Minister's case. I congratulate my former partners on the Economic and Business Committee on getting this fun bill to deal with, this great bandorm. But there are a few things that are interesting, and I just want to touch them. First of all, the volume rule is called detoxification, which is probably for some comfort. V.E.G. One minister said that this was not a significant loss of income, which is probably correct, considering the limit. If I don't have a misdirection, we're talking about 600 cubic feet [600 cu m] and 1,200 cubic feet [1,200 cu m] of people and a couple, about 200 square feet [200 square meters] and 400 square feet [400 square meters], even though there were air in that house, or whatever. So we're here talking about a law that's obviously been in the law and that has made the sale of very large houses taxable above these limits, but only from the other side of the building that is more important. In reality, then, this has been some kind of error, so to speak, that there may be a tax paid from extra large and valuable houses. Those who enjoy this reduction are the owners of such houses. They may also have received some of the debt and lost their wealth tax. This is, therefore, an additional contribution that will primarily be involved, a couple with over 400 square feet [400 square m] from house to house, or something like that. Well, it's probably not a big deal, and it's not a lot of money involved, but for some reason it's been in there. I think it's okay for a man to go over it and open up his mind with it in his own time. Was it just because there was no reason, though, for people to pay no taxes at the expense of such a situation? Secondly, I'd like to mention the 15th thing we're talking about, we're sticking to the number, i.e. the non-employers will be permitted to pay insurance fees for their employee in this country in order to obtain the rights of this payment. Of course, it has something to do with the European rights. If I understand a correct discussion of the matter, we may not be allowed to have the obligation of men to do this fee, which would have been desirable in many respects, for of course, it is reasonable to pay and receive the rights that are associated with it, such as just for birthworm. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Was this case worked with the labour market? Has it been considered in the process whether there is any reason to make further changes or even other changes that will achieve the same goals, such as changing the timeliness that exist on the basis of how long people can stay in the company of foreign workers in a labour market without registering and starting to pay taxes on their pay? There's some three-month rule and something else I don't know exactly, but I know there's an opinion now, for example, in areas like South Germany where this is going to be a test. Some feel that the line is too bed, and in its shelter, a large part of the workforce for years can be outside the Icelandic labour market, not paying taxes and duties, and obviously not enjoying rights here, which is never the normal situation. To establish a principle of tax rights, to be that income comes to taxation, where it is formed, though there are certainly some rules of communication between countries. I've been interested in knowing if this has been done in cooperation with the labour market partners, especially the labor movement, and if this is a reason to believe that if this is the case, men will take advantage of it. What analysis is behind the proposed change? Finally, I think it's good to change the day of stress, which leads to an extended deadline. It is therefore a question whether the whole project is actually moving forward by one month or another, if you stick to the dates that have been involved in the development of growth and child support and so on, at least Next year, if I understood the highest. Minister right. Maybe this will help us to make the project move further in the year, and the electronic technology will make it easier for us to do so, that's the best thing to do. There is reason to rejoice over it and to commend the government tax president and his employees for a spectacular success in decoupling taxes. It is a pleasure, though, at least in that area, we are quite possible, and we have been very well along, Icelanders, and good for us. It is impressive to see that progress has become almost entirely electronic and the paper has disappeared, but, unfortunately, there are no other countries to greet. I think the highest. For example, a minister of finance needs to refresh the customs. I'm afraid things aren't as good there. There you can achieve a lot of practicality with more use of electronic solutions. But there has been a lack of financial resources for building up a ministry, which, of course, can be found. The tax is a very impressive example, since this technology has been new and has produced good results.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u82	Mr. President. The right to address some comments on the volume rule is that there are isolated cases each year. That's where I really feel that it is whether we should have gone beyond what is suggested here, to drop the rule completely, which I thought was also intended for me. It is not because of those of large property who want to put them in prices, but much rather because of those who inherited such possessions in some way during their lifetime, have more than one possession, and become at some higher tax level, from being in tax - free sales to paying taxes. It may be a coincidence that people inherited property, not property in some other form. I'll mention it for consideration on the performance of the Order. As for the insurance fee, I'd like to say that pressing this right is a good step. In that case, I think there is a change that the labour market has ever called for. You can ask yourself, " Am I going any further, and I have not considered this particularly about the time limit asked? ' But about the last thing that is the tax burden, I agree that it's an improvement that as a result of our electronic progress, we will be able to get into position to speed up the day of stress. It's a positive thing for staff of the head of the state that so far has had to work the last grip on stress over the summer. In the future, this may lead to changes in the collection, but it will not be the first time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u83	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. They were all right. This is now a factor that the Economic and Business Committee can easily review if it wants to. The only thing I always find wise to do in this situation is to learn how the tax rule was planned in its time, how it's being carried out today, and if these are very few cases, and maybe the reason for it to be the highest. The minister described it as unfair to those who suddenly find such possessions for inheritance or other such things, and it is all a valid, grammatical argument in the discussion. With the insurance bill, it's the same thing that I think I'm quite aware that the workforce's parties are a little more encouraging than the other, but the question is, should we look at the time limit and the rules we have in these areas? I now confess to myself only a poorly lower order to tell me about the details of the problem, but I know this, I've seen it on the subject and I've seen it from earlier examples where the circumstances arise in the labour market that foreign people come in with employees over the past, it's really important how to achieve their membership and interests in the Great Company, trade union and other parties, that they come into the domestic labour market and pay taxes here and, of course, receive all rights in place. This includes ensuring that these employees are treated appropriately and that they are more comfortable by Icelandic contracts, etc. It's all hanging around and it's all connected. As for the day of stress, I am quite satisfied with the answers that this may, in turn, result in the progress of the overall project, but at first it is probably one of the best summers that the head of the government has long been given. That is understandable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u84	V.E.G. President. I had no intention of speaking about this matter, but I listened attentively to the Supreme Court. Secretary of the budget and what. 4th, including That's the north side. "Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, discuss the situation here. It's a big, big tapeworm and fixation of various laws. It's going to be a lot of work for the Economic and Business Committee to go through it. I feel that the first tour of the bill is a great deal for the better. Take, for example, that tax cards on paper are laid down and made electronically. That's fine. That's very impressive. I agree with what they told me earlier on congratulations to the head of state tax for great tax returns software and all of that. All that has to do with the head of the state of debt, even though we've figured it out as such, was absolutely well implemented, and we have a great example here and show as far as the governor of the tax is concerned about the electronic messages, communications, and pressures and so on. So here is a one-month application for individuals. Maybe that's the main reason I'm coming up here asking the highest. Secretary of finance in this case, if he can answer me when he gives his second talk about what has been presented here. I ask: Was it checked at the bill and discussion of all the changes suggested here, changing dates in terms of law and persons so that the due date would be restored? It's come to my mind so often on a professional committee I sit in when people discuss hunting costs. Then it's like Haggerp would gather the data, and they'd be late because there's no divorce until October 1st, if I remember correctly, and application. It will then take a long time to win the necessary data that in modern society should be updated almost to today or at the time of divorce. It's all so perfect and cool. It may be, so I'm putting my doubts on it, that we're about to put everything on the other end of this country's books and accounting programs, but I'm calling it up for the discussion on that and because we've all come to see what has happened to the annual accounting and revision. We may see the results of the accounts of various major companies in this country, which is why, about 20 January. Then you begin to publish your work, which is, of course, amazing performance, because, as it were, in the electronic world, it's all done together a day dato. I'm going to ask about this as well as I'm celebrating a few of the things that have been going on here. I'd also like to ask on another show. This is a payment for growth and child improvement, and changes are made that result from the application of a month. Has the highest. A minister has the right to see if we should take the steps to the full, that interest offerings would simply be paid onto the head seat, and made straight to lower the mortgage? In turn, that money will not be used in anything else. But there's been a lot of discussions, this was done to the penitentiary, she went straight into the head chair. It would be interesting to hear about it from the highest level. Minister. There are several other questions worth asking about, but it seems to me that the bill shouldn't be a big problem, but it probably causes a headache for the members of the Economic and Business Committee when they go through it. It's okay. Like everything else, they will solve it well. There are some things I just don't know and haven't studied and some things I'm not going to go on, but I hope they're all improving. Likewise, I rejoice at what is stated in Article 12, which suggests that the minimum amount of money collected for Congress pay will be raised from 2,000 bucks. In 5,000 p.m., which we have often heard people say when they receive a requirement for these 2,000 charges. I wonder if the fund pays a considerable amount of money for the collects. I think it's also improving and consistent with what's changing in the country. In particular, a customs manager's right to obtain information is suggested that he be allowed to use administrative fines if there is insufficient information. The 18th point is a considerable chapter in the bill that discusses what the international community, the countries we compare with, in this case in Europe, moves more to get passenger information. We can see this when we watch news in the world. This is necessary, whether it is on ships or on airplanes. There is an proposed way out of the way many European countries now go. It is safe to say that the United States has been doing this for many years. No doubt many wondered what to do with such personal information. But I believe and trust that such information cannot be started, but it is essential for governments to increase the safety of passengers and countries. This is one of the vital factors that we need to consider and that we have been so confusing about the past few days, weeks, and months of the world, in which some unfortunate good people even try to smuggle themselves on board such projects and can cause passengers and others much damage to madness, I am determined to say. Finally, I welcome an upgrade to the high prices of the country. It is suggested that the proportion of non-employment revenues of individual donors and church contributions, established euthanasia, culture, political parties and scientific research projects will be raised from 0.5% to 0.75%. V.E.G. The secretary of finance said that there was some loss of income for the state's funds, but this would benefit those carrying the gifts, whether in churches, communities, or others. I want to add it and say: It also enables them to give a little more. But my biggest question was about the lawyers and the deadline: Has it been examined? Other than that, Mr. President, it's a pleasure to present more primes that at first glance and 1st. It seems that there is great and far - reaching agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-27-42.u85	Mr. President. There have been some facts and all that have been said, that the matter no doubt calls for some opinion on the committee that may take time, yet there are a number of factors in the bill for technical changes that should easily be settled. There are many things, but not very complex. Unquestionably, some facts call to mind. In the speech of the last speaker, what? paritaprevir Kristján Möller, was given special consideration to some factors. Asked if pressure could be submitted by lawmakers. I'm not an expert on that point, but I do know that there are aspects of corporate development that require considerable work in the early part of the year. I don't think it's possible that in Iceland it's realistic to speed up the taxpayers so much into the year that the tax divorce is the same date as we've gotten used to individuals. I can say with what. A member of the council that it can be a great interest for the State to finish the application as soon as possible for both groups, individuals and legalists because they should be able to speed up the collections. It restores the rich fund, at least in the time of the change, and in the future thereafter. It is also for all who have to rely on the tax industry that things are going as fast as possible. The point was, had we considered that growth reforms were going directly to the head. There was no particular consideration of this matter, but I have often wondered about it. I think we should look at such things in a larger context, in relation to the general housing support and in relation to the changes we've been making and may have done in the years to come in support of this country. In a recent report by the World Bank, which we have published on the financial office, the fund suggests that we permanently abandon the growth reform program and give more emphasis on support in another way. For example, an extenuating personality beat and an increase in it to other measures. But with the idea of paying interest on a head chair, I think it's good to increase saving. On the other hand, after paying interest, the person may look a little strange to the person who accepts the compensation, but he does not get the money he was supposed to give him the interest money he paid. Rather, he goes directly on loans. This may be wise in the long term to increase the savings, as I say, and to make sure that the appeal, the supply, the support is being used to provide the home. However, that would no longer be growth improvements. Rather, it would be some other type of housing support. As a basis for improving the cost of growth, growth costs have been considered reasonable to the individual to be reimbursed by the direct payment of the growth reforms. I mention what would be the best option for this support, and for my part, I want to keep open to the fact that we are moving away from the growth reform system into a new system, which would be more likely to encourage self-exploitation in connection with real estate, while the growth reform system has over time became critical of being inflatable. The collection arrangement was mentioned. We have so far made it possible to exchange the Senate posts, which are more than 2,000 credits, but the change in the bill will not be less than five thousand dollars. switch between dues. That is a natural change. I don't think there will be any disagreement at the council. Other than that, I believe I've studied key elements of the bill. There are some developments in this, several technical issues. The subject of the bill shows that some of these rules are made by appeal within the project, i.e. The changes are called after certain changes from the toll manager and from the head of the government, which occur in the relations of these authorities with taxpayers and those who have dealings with the tax authorities. Mixed up are things that have been in the system for a long time or are connected to the policy I want to apply to myself. Now the matter goes to a committee, and I wish her to benefit from the actions that await her, offering all help and support if you wish to explain more specific provisions.
