ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Parliamentary Party of the Left Motion of the Green Mission to 8th. Smoke. n., Þóra Árnadóttir, can't attend next week. So today, at General 1st, a deputy on the left of the movement is on the list of green bids in the district of Björn Valur Gíslason. In the past, Björn Valur Gíslason is invited to serve again at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u2	A respectable president. According to statistics recently published, about 40% of the population of the Habitat still lives in their parents'homes. In comparison, the proportion in Denmark is about 10%. No doubt there are many reasons why so many live in parents'homes until their early 30's. Many at this age are attending university, and it can be difficult to finance study while paying rent, much less to buy housing. Everybody knows that. However, I bring up this matter because at a large and interesting national meeting this morning, three ministers blew up the possibility of new ones, and especially less expensive routes to house - to - house markets. That's a good move. These days are even. Talk about Ikea apartment, a Chinese steel house, and so on. Of course, all benefits need to be considered and then to take the most acceptable course of action. It's time for action. We can't sit around anymore. Social Affairs has produced certain ideas that are steps in the right direction. On the other hand, for young people to be able to handle their dwellings and find adequate solutions, many must come to the table, and no one must be free of charge. This morning, the Environment Minister and Industrial and Business Minister also arrived at this major project. The fact is, a whole generation of young people cannot afford to cover their heads without parental assistance. These young people can neither buy nor rent. It's a simple fact. This problem is not new, it has been ongoing for a long time. We can change regulations, bring down property prices, and also build costs, but the budget is too high for all normal people. In Iceland, there is no expensive funding. The insurance policy is killing in this country, and there's nothing going to change until it leaves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u3	A respectable president. This morning, author Illugi Jökulsson the president of the Foreign Institute for Foreign Affairs a signature to 10,000 Icelanders who are challenged to the government and Foreign Institute to allow an Albanian family to settle here on land, it will not be dismissed. Many refugees have recently offended the sense of justice, reminding us that there will be humanitarian attitudes and should be in the background when interpreting the law that the Foreign Institute has, and many have argued with good reason that the Agency interprets its frame all too narrow. If that is the correct interpretation, as we have seen today, where families, children's families, the total refugees who have come here, broke down their tents, took root, and wanted to be here, then the frame of law is simply wrong. There's a reason to challenge him. The General Commission and Internal Minister to make an immediate review, especially if it is the right thing at the National Institute of Iceland that it is this narrowly tailored condition, and that it really has no alternative but to dismiss it when confronted with the humane nature and the sense of justice of many are severely offended by the deportation. The signing of these 10,000 Icelanders under a challenge to the government, and the U.S. National Institutes of Iceland speak for themselves, as this signature list became available in just a few days. I'd like to use this opportunity to challenge the Council and the General Committee and the Minister of the Advisor to use these matters in a very direct and rapid and urgent way in order to make sure that these families and those who are here in the same business can find refuge and a home for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u4	V.E.G. President. I would like to take advantage of this opportunity today under the council's work to discuss education, mainly as a university education for people in the country. I'm very interested in everyone studying regardless of their status and economic status. It is of utmost importance that a person can study regardless of where he lives and the economy. For that to happen, there are a few things that need to be played together. There must be a good offer of a long-term study, an online connection needs to be good, and registration costs need to be reduced. As it is today, public universities offer telecommunications. Yet, much is missing. The schools vary in their size and offer a wide range of learning during the study. It is important that individuals have the opportunity to pursue the study that they are interested in and that they can pursue home Bible studies. For this to be possible, we need to have a light-traveling pool in Iceland. It is out - of - date that people have to move national angles to attend school in certain departments only taught in exchange for education. We are to do what we can to encourage people to educate themselves. We don't want to lose educated people from the country. Hv. paritaprevir Dr. Anna Sævarsdóttir made a pact proposal at the last legislation hearing involved in university telecommunications. I welcome that synopsis proposal, and how quickly. A senator to make the suggestion again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u5	A respectable president. For example, if foreign claims to a discount from a stable tax are negotiated, the principle is that not only the foreign claimors will be released from currency capitals but also the public, our companies in the country, and our pension funds. The other is that in such contracts there will be solved, not just a delay of seven to ten years. If we don't solve the problem here and now, we're turning it over to the future and to the next generation. In his sixth follow-up report since June. According to the International Cash Fund, high expectations are for decommissioning a penitentiary but limited space to relieve the cash. This may be further limited by the increase in pay and inflation and by the increase in trade. These words remind us that unless we are on the table, the long-term plans for discounting and contracts to ensure the equivalent of solution and stability tax will be made; because if we do not have a solution and the stability tax is in agreement with foreign requirements, we should accept the tax rather than question what is lacking in future generations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u6	V.E.G. President. Last night at the council, I spoke among other things about decommissioning insurance insurance from consumer loans. I discussed the importance of the next steps involved and the need for these steps to be dated in the next few days. Now we need answers to these questions: Should the insurance be canceled? Are you going to put a roof on a secure mortgage? Are you going to enhance the impulse to take on cheating loans? What is the situation, and how do we feel about it? It is difficult to understand what causes the insurance business to have not yet entered the council. You can ask these questions: Are the results of the housing work going on within the Ministry of Health? Or is it possible that they are waiting for results to be made in the Aggressive Association case regarding the legitimate insurance? If so, it is necessary that this case be handled quickly by the law. Or maybe the reason is just everything, everything else? As mentioned in my speech yesterday, the insurance business is at the top of the table. Secretary of finance. Do not forget what is done well. Prime Minister has appointed task force groups to find ways to prevent spontaneous increases in goods and services and links of various short-term agreements to the index price of consumers fueling inflation. This group has now yielded results. At the end of my talk, I'd like to mention the national meeting that was here this morning as the three highest. Ministers were behind us. He was very well diseased, had a share of nearly 300 people, and discussed housing matters, including conversation. how to build fast and practical housing and how to improve the supply of housing. Time for action. This government is going to make works talk. In this context, we have to cancel insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u7	V.E.G. President. I hear it's coming to members of the Agency that it's getting a little bit more fun and their demand for dissociative insurance. I am glad that my request for special discussions with the prime minister has made this impression and has moved on. But it also shows that the task is at the table of secretary of finance. It's a wonder that this belief is on the table. Why is that surprising? Yes, because decommissionment of insurance was one of the main elections of the advance party. This is one of the policies of the government of Sigmundur, Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson. V.E.G. The prime minister stated on the Ministry's Home Office that a Minister's Committee on the Solutions of Home Remuneration would appoint security care measures in order to ensure a continuation of a budget of bail on new consumer loans. Indeed, this assignment is his responsibility, and it was emphasized by organizational adjustments in the Ministry of Presidency yesterday to explain the leading task management and the role of the Ministry of Presidency. And how can I understand this Hiccup at the highest? Prime Minister, Mr. President? There are two explanations to that matter. Either the advance team has given up on the project and thrown the responsibility to the highest level. Of course, the minister of finance, who is an independent individual, and the Independence Party is opposed to dissemination of insurance. Well, or the explanation may be to consult the highest level of the interview. A minister of finance, who declared this morning that he was very open to the changed government order. Perhaps they intend to change their seats, the prime minister, and the minister of finance. [[The president calls.]] Maybe it's the best. The prime minister on his way to the Ministry of finance will be interesting to see if the advance party means anything to the head with his promises. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u8	V.E.G. President. I was on my way to South America, where the situation in equality is, unfortunately, much less relaxed than in Iceland. All too often, the woman is expected to stay at home and care for her home, and the man is the working man. In particular, I remember one person we met on a trip where the woman had never had the opportunity to work outside, and it was expected that she would be at home, whereas the man worked outside the home. The thing about this couple was when we talked to them that the woman was quite wonderful and brilliant, but the man was kind of a nut job. If you watch this case, this is clearly not the most reasonable way for society to share works with you. If this case is repeated through society several million times, it must lead to a much worse conclusion. If you see the whole community as an engineering system, which I think is very useful in saying, I'm an engineer, then such an organization must produce a much worse conclusion, whether it comes to economic growth, when it comes to creating new jobs, innovation, etc. This isn't a good idea. In equal terms, when it comes to society's organization, there is an unwise, illogical foundation. That's why it's interesting to find out where we are in Iceland. Although we are far away in equality, many assignments are still ahead of us. Looking forward to the rewards of the sexes, there is still a large task ahead of us. If you look at the rights of immigrants, there is a huge task ahead of you. Foreigners still live in all sorts of discrimination and walk, for example. poor education and the ability to use one's talents in the best possible way. We can also look at the birthworm, where we have heard of fathers making smaller uses of maternity. [[The president calls.]] I would like to encourage the body of Congress to accept the committee that is active, which will suggest a better schedule for maternity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u9	V.E.G. President. Prime Minister announces possible changes in surface treasure and treasure, whether it is wise to combine these two funds and expand their role in a disaster fund. I believe it is important to try to expand the activities of natural disasters so that they can reach floods, as they did on the sails - but this morning we received reports of improving the damage there - but also over the tides that war on many settlements. The members of the Southern District know well how the coasts along the coasts of the Minird valley and the Cynns outside the Hornfjörður, where the Atlantic is throwing sand to and fro. After a great storm, the seal at the Hornfjord can close. In this regard, a natural disaster fund should respond by means of financial support for more than 2 of you. will not be more fragile in a community. So important is a fishing route and the harbor in the area. Yesterday, the Ministry of Presidency was also formed within the National Economic Office. The role of the office must identify the state and development of the economy within the country and outside, assess the economic prospects and shape the suggestions for Prime Minister and Government at any given time. Then, too, the State builder. At a meeting this morning, with the title Vand, practical, fast, with the goal of finding ways to reduce the cost of construction, the first government builder, the Guðjón of Samúelsson, was told of the first man to come up with ideas of living in behalf of workers and less wealthy individuals. This morning's meeting was a very good and consistent meeting places that the building order was too narrow and rigid and that flexibility would solve the problems of young and old in housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u10	President. I'd like to make up the subject of the analysis that Anion Bank published on the Internet yesterday. They expect an increase in index at the next month's match, which means 1.1% inflation rate per year. This reminds us that our first agreement in spring was made with the temporary growth of the management interest of the Navy burglar. In fact, he's seen himself coming in because of the foreign funds that want to enjoy the interest paid by the bank manager. But it also provided an excuse in spring for companies to take advantage of a 7% increase in pay, e.g. Such as at the store, and the use of benecid, pay costs at the store are so hollow and balled by 18%, so this 7% increase at 18% of the cost was a reason to raise prices up to 101.715%. Then, the bank manager continues to fan the cost of the event by saying, as if the other day, when here a decrease in index number from month to month: it's still coming. That's exactly the message you need to hear from the bank manager of one nation, isn't it? But that is all the circumstances now to keep on lowering the price of goods. The crown has grown, and several companies have blessedly reduced prices, e.g. Ikea, Mylan, and now, last bonus, about 5%. But more is needed. This is the basis for more because the crown's strength is greater than that. And more people are needed to jump on that bus. If so, we will not be neglecting the price that has been blessed in recent losses. Therefore, I would like to use this opportunity to challenge all those in the country who come to be worthy of a role model for these companies and reduce prices according to the crown's grant.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u11	Mr. President. As we have often seen, the number of people living solely on capital incomes is increasing and thus only paying interest taxes. So these individuals and families do not contribute to the rural areas and therefore do not participate in the cost involved. Here, too, are those who live solely on interest money, but they do not pay any taxes to the local community. In this group are more than not the most prominent members of society. I'd like to give you one example. A company pays its owner $700 a month's salary. Of these, the individual pays $200,000 taxes, both to state and to local society. In other words, the cost for the company is 10 million years, of which 4.5 million are paid in expenses and taxes. There's another way to do this. Owner becomes chairman of the board and pays off 150 grand. K. every month. He meets with his staff as needed and the cost for the company is 2 million, not 10. There are 8 million that he pays to profit, of course, given the company's profit. It pays 20% for a fiscal tax that all goes into government funds. That leaves over 6 million who give more than 220 thousand more in provision for this individual, and nothing is going to be answered. More and more people go that way. The total taxes are the same as they have gone, but in the second case, they all come into a financial fund. There are billions of people missing into the rural areas, many of which are in a bad condition, including the U.S.A. This is why. It is not long since this hall talked about making money doubles between years. It cannot be viewed as reasonable that none of the money and interest revenues go to the countryside. [[The president calls.]] It's gonna have to change, it's a real problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to encourage you. A senator and others to study the answers I received in my inquiry about how much we record through the EEA contract of the European Union laws. That's why I want to draw attention to each other. In this respect, members of Congress and others are very regularly heard by us to address more and less all the laws, regulations, and regulations that come from the European Union. Time and again, there's been talk of an 80% share. Of course, this has been driven many times, but it always comes up again. But now it is entirely in the Senate document as an answer to my request that the ratio may be around 10% or so. It is vital that we keep that in mind when discussing these matters. It would also be good for us to remember that because we're not in a union, we're a free trade organization, we have the freedom to increase business freedoms here. That's what this guy has. One way a government would do this is by making a decision to lower tolls on some 1,700 goods, which we could not do if we were in the European Union. On top of that, because we are not acting out for some reason, walking in the European Union would have a bearing on the price of many things. That would mean higher tolls, especially from a large business area, such as the United States, but many others could be mentioned. Then, of course, we have freedom to negotiate free trades with other countries, as we have done with the Faeroe Islands and China.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u13	Mr. President. I don't like to come back and forth to discuss the same language, which is poor service to disabled people, often so bad that it is simply a violation of human rights. It sucks that it's the way it is in our rich country. In 1st. the law on the affairs of disabled people says under the permission of a president: ▪ The objective of these laws is to provide disabled people with equality and comparable standard of living with other members of society, providing them with conditions for normal living. That's a good one, and I'm sure it's a good one, and it's a beautiful word. But was it the Lawgiver's will that these should be just beautiful words that did little for people of flesh and blood? I hope not, and I don't think so. But I understand very well that many disabled people and many of their associates are really asking that question. In 1st. law on the affairs of disabled people also says that the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people should be taken into account. The fundamental aspects of that contract are respect for disabled people and appreciation for their circumstances and opportunities to live normal lives. In the week the media reported how strikes have repeated the life of a disabled 19 - year - old who is attending school but who needs help with all daily activities completely cut down and his parents'lives are no service to disabled students when school is shut down because of strikes, and parents need to take care of them. Mr. President. How does this address the good goals and beautiful words in the laws on the affairs of disabled people and human rights agreements about equal living conditions with other natural life, equality, respect, and understanding? Shameful little, of course. And whatever the reason, disrespect, lack of understanding, or nothing of the worst kind, we must make the requirement that the academic and welfare authorities break it down and not let this happen again. Human rights are about respect and understanding, and they need to be done, not just in word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u14	V.E.G. President. Hospital subset is equivalent to the hospital subsection, which serves as an eye. No one really wants such things to happen, and I claim that they do. Nobody wants this to happen. It is best for them to question them, and for those who do not know things personally, to know what they believe when claiming to be subject to medical institutions. However, in the current hospital crisis, the reality is so clear that accepting the problem cannot be avoided. Of course, even life and death may be crucial, when a physician is not there and the patient is not able to get the necessary operation. In that life chain, there are more than many people, as well as doctors, nurses, biologists, radiologists, and others, who make up these chains. And there are orderlies who are now involved in a failed conflict. Operation is carried out, the day passes, then comes night, and then night, also the nurses and caregivers must be present. Birna Ólafsdóttir, a woman of Iceland's Hospitalist Association, who had 30 years of experience in the struggle and in the strike - off, says that in today's conflict, there was a new reality. In the past, labors have been given leave to work to ensure minimal security. However, it would now be a day's minimum security requirement without a strike. That is how it would be in various departments of the Hospital, that when one employee was out on duty, health and the well - being of patients were threatened. She also says that it is not enough for the staff to be too limited because of their dissatisfaction; rather, there is a weaker hospital in the area than in the past, and the professions, including the sicker, are also weaker in the word. [[The president calls.]] She asks us to face this reality. V.E.G. President. I take my leave of silence to join this lawsuit, the hospital's warning must be taken seriously in this room. [[The president calls.]] I'm looking at them to see that the government will have to solve the debate right now, and we'll have to take this message into the budget for the coming year. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u15	Mr. President. Last Friday, the main meeting of the National Submarine Association was held in the foreword to the Chairman, Halldór, Ármannsson of Aarman, that he stressed the safety of boarding boats and the importance of the trust of sailors. Pointed Halldór to the importance of learning from what happened when John Hokon BA sank the last summer out of Great Louis. The safety features of the Jón Highkonan Hákon had everything to do with their failures. Thus, the whole process must be reviewed, and the vessel must be removed from the bottom of the ocean to investigate the cause of the accident and thereby ensure the safety of sailors, since sailors must not experience false security. It was shown at Castlight during the day that a release mechanism is being investigated by a walking room. The director of the Transport Lab reports that there is no doubt about the operation of the device now in use. This is a little strange, because I wanted to discuss this accident and what was being done on the DMV these days on the job committee. There were agents from the Group, Internal Affairs, and the NTSB. The Committee for Research was not informed by members of the House of Disease Control. It's amazing to me. It is unacceptable for sailors to be unsure whether or not their rescue equipment will work. I challenge the DMV to shake off the sleazy word and do something about it. This is unacceptable. This committee is not so high that it must not be criticized for drawing up its feet before it may be too late to be used as evidence. The wreck is to be cleared up immediately, investigated, and prevented from similar accidents in the future. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u16	A respectable president. Ever since the currency capital was placed here in the fall of 2008, there has been ongoing discussions and efforts to eliminate them, at least to free them. Many irresponsible things have been said in these matters here in this hall during this period. There are countless references to present - day government officials that this might be done in one hour, even a few days, some weeks, that would just be the will that was missing during the last term. This proved to be another reality when it came true. In recent years, a huge work has been done that is primarily aimed at reaching out over the scope of this matter and evaluating the effects of the ways that could have been on board to eliminate or relieve the oceans. Now that some of these matters will begin to be cut short, it is vital that we do so well and be properly completed. First of all, I feel that these matters are handled behind closed doors. It is entirely unannounced for the Generals and the public in the country that these issues, the biggest cases that this nation has been dealing with in recent years, and hopefully we won't get anything like this in the next few decades, are going to be going to finish and settle behind closed doors. They belong here at the Generals. Second, worry that there's a lot of work to be negotiated on behalf of Iceland. There is an unexplained difference between hundreds of billions of dollars in the way that is being introduced today and the beautiful way that has also been introduced. Third, and especially then, there is good reason to be concerned about how the heads of the board react to the events that are taking place during these days that are primarily involved in selling in this case of Iceland banks, which will put him into stock as soon as they get it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I'd like to remind you that we have an agreement here at the General Assembly on the investigation of the private development of the banks that were being classed over a decade ago. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I demand that this investigation be completed before it is started with a new one. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u17	Mr. President. Now the legislature against the legislator is too much for the legislatator to do. After the discussion that has taken place here today, I feel that it is impossible for the President of the Generals to come to the highest power. Prime Minister here to the Council of the United States, with good or evil, to discuss the insurance and the possibility of taking over, or to give him a body of Congress. It has been observed to the highest level. The president of the council has directed the arrival of the highest power. Prime Minister here, and he has refused. This is where it's been two if not three. The senators of the parish have come and fired all their cannons and asked: "How's it going with insurance? Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson kept a good count of housing matters and said that they would never get better unless the insurance was taken away. Hv. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir asked: Should I cancel my insurance policy? And I ask you, this Presidential thing isn't going to see to it that it's the best. Prime Minister will be subject to his tribunal duties and will come here to discuss with members of the United States the disparagement of bail, as seen in his declarations and in the agreement of the government? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u18	V.E.G. President. I truly agree with what happened. paritaprevir Snoops Össur of Skarphéðinsson and encouragement to the president of the Generals that in some way a prime minister will be surprised to come here for a special discussion that has been waiting for up to a whole year. A respectable president. I've been a little impressed with this program called the Committee's work, where members of Congress can come up and talk things over, but I have to say just as it is, you can't cope anymore with the way some of the senators of the House show up here with claims of disparagement of insurance and other things and then run out of the hall. They never allow us to discuss these matters with them. Hv. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir. paritaprevir It's the village of Sæmundsson that I don't talk about speech at any time. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter last night on this matter. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. It's not possible. It is not worthy that the prime minister will be able to ignore the legislature month after month, even year after year, and not discuss this case that then candidates come here with written styles and criticize the highest standard. Secretary of finance for not bringing the case to the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What's your chief plan? The president of this case? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u19	There's an answer from the highest. Prime Minister, who has been introduced by the president, including to those who have requested this discussion, about the fact that the prime minister sees this matter as being on the table at the highest level. Secretary of finance, the decision has been made at the time to bring this case for further development at the highest level. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u20	A respectable president. Will the advance party tell us, after promising the nation insurance insurance that they have specifically committed a Bjarni Benediktsson, a well-declared opponent of insurance insurance insurance, custody of the case in a common government? Of course not! Of course, it was the matter of the custody of Sigmundur's Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who, of course, placed a group on the insurance policy that returned a report requested that he move to the council. He also rejected it because he simply did not have the courage to discuss the big promise he had made to betray. It's as simple as that. He's converging within the government. Social and Homing Ministers comes to insurance prices, Prime Minister comes to insurance, secretary of finance is coming up to cover prices. It is nothing but a matter of fact, that the council would hire prime minister to discuss the greatest campaign of Iceland's history, and the betrayal of that, decommissionment of insurance, here at the council. And that the Prosecutors, when the prime minister does not wish to be responsible, are, of course, becoming rather embarrassing, respectable president. [[The president calls.]] I urge the prime minister to come here and discuss this matter, whether he will or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u21	A respectable president. It is now interesting to observe the conversation of the board when it comes to decommissioning insurance, since the conversation takes place not only behind closed doors but also takes place with telegram transmissions here in the chamber. Exploitation of insurance was one of the two largest promises of the Agency's campaign, and this was to be both small and quick, and quite simple. The head of the Parliament, who has long been on the run from the General, does not want to discuss the matter at the council, but now it has become a new turn on the matter when each senator of the forward Party after the rest of the party is presented with a political explanation that the project is an expedite of insurance, in the opinion of the party at the highest level. The secretary of the finance of Bjarni, son of Benediktsson. So Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, the highest. Prime Minister, not just fleeing the Council, but now a new chapter in this story. He's going to throw the debt of his own wallet on the Independence Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u22	V.E.G. President. I asked for a special discussion at the highest. In February the prime minister was concerned about decommissioning insurance. I asked her back this fall, but he has never wanted to take this conversation with me. The argument is that the case is on the table of the secretary of finance, and I refuse to listen to it. It is the prime minister who has the task force in this government. This is the policy of his government. This is one of his biggest elections. It is particularly surprising to observe how the advance party is running away from responsibility for this promise and has placed it in the hands of a team of colleagues, a group that opposes bail. I reiterate this request, and I do not believe it to the highest level. The prime minister is so poor.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u23	President. Of course, the government's foreman cannot launch an answer for one of the main policies and one of the larger government policies that are decommissioned in insurance. Besides, it was the highest power of elections. Prime Minister. I mean, it's just... It's... It's really... It's... It's... It's just... It's about the enigmas. He said it was a small job, he didn't say it was lazy, but he said it was a small piece of work and it would take a short time. He cannot now run into hiding, and he sends senators to the top of his party in a pit to set spears at the top. Secretary of finance. The secretary of finance has said it's not possible and he doesn't want to cancel his insurance policy. [[The president calls.]] The media must deal with themselves, and the prime minister must answer us here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u24	A respectable president. I listened to President's explanation of why Prime Minister would not come here and discuss the insurance policy. No, it wouldn't be on his table. It would be on the level of financial and economic ministers. On August 16, 2013, when he appointed a team of experts to make bail, the question was well on the table of prime minister. In January 2014, when Prime Minister published a 70 - page report from this team of experts on insurance insurance, the situation was quite clear. Is the matter just on the table of prime minister at his convenience? So when things get complicated and difficult and they may have to answer some questions from members of Congress, it's on the level of financial and economic ministers. A 70 - page report was published by the Ministry of Presidency in January 2014. Prime Minister should come here to discuss the insurance policy, because he took the case on his own when that government started. [[The president calls.]] He's the one who's supposed to follow the case, but don't be soaking it up and throw it in the company when the potato's too hot for him. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u25	Mr. President. In fact, it is very serious for the council, for the Congress of the country, by the state of Congress, if the prime minister is exposed to the behavior he is pursuing here, to ignore wishes to appear and represent the case of the government or of his party at the General Assembly. Prime Minister is Prime Minister, or was the last to know, and in the case of even a number of cases, as indicated by the fact that three cabinet ministers held an ornamental meeting this morning on housing, it is reasonable to focus on Prime Ministers, even if some particular feature of the matter, financial insurance, or financial legislation, is in the field of finance. The prime minister is also the head of the advance party, the party, who declared that insurance would be removed and that he would be ruled in the country. You begin to wonder, after listening to the candidates' lawsuits of the Agency, whether they think there are two governments in the country, the government of the Independence Party, and the head of the forward party. [[The president calls.]] And the government of the advance party, under the lead of Davíð's Gunnlaugsson Gunnler's Sigurmur, has committed the government of Bjarni son of Benediktsson to eliminate insurance. [[The president calls.]] He's not doing his job, and that's a forward break. Well, let's hear it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u26	V.E.G. President. I'm going to get involved in a little material discussion on this matter, the insurance policy that the President has passed on to the President's conference board. I don't know what traitors are talking about. The last time I knew there was something left of this season, wasn't there? Why don't we ask ourselves, " How's this going to work out? Why don't we go over it in a calm way? ' I will not cry at all about talking with the council members. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller and others, about this case, not at all. [[Up front.]] Thank you, for this. Now it's called hard ahead. Should we not, though, save ourselves the guile and the rumblings and see how this situation will turn out? [[Up front.]] Opponents are in many places. They are also here in this room, and it is a good idea to have someone's viewpoint on the matter. I think it's fine, and I'm ready for it any time. But I'm stressing this: Nobody's done anything wrong. [[Up front.]] It's not over yet. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u27	A respectable president. I think it's kind of irony or alkaline that we're being complained that there's a material discussion about the insurance policy under the President's conference regime when people call for a material discussion about the insurance policy, and it's been called in February. [[Up front.]] Asking the end of the game minimizes the promises of the forward party. Speaking of minimizing, you're used to coming to the pita and saying that the highest. Prime Minister demeans the council. This time, I feel that he is primarily demeaning himself. The fact that he handles the matter this way shows beyond any doubt that he dares to talk about it, which I understand, I wouldn't dare talk about it if I had gone into the promises he made. I wouldn't dare stand here and try to defend them. Therefore, he does not want to stand here and talk about the material things. If we're not going to talk about this here, Mr. Honorable President, prepared for President's conference board, when are we going to talk about this? Yes, in special discussions we are calling for. Where is the political impossible now, while I remember, a respectable president, if ever. Secretary of finance should handle the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u28	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson said about this case that nothing has been betrayed in terms of decommissioning insurance. But has something been accomplished? I don't think so. I think it's strange to the highest. The prime minister did not trust in this discussion, which was the largest campaign in the company. How many people do you think chose the party exactly? I just seem to be a failure for this government. It doesn't walk or drive, and people are everywhere where they start. There's a lot of time left, but it's a start for this poor government, whether it's a travel policy, housing policy, or the money policy or a god knows what. Transport zero. We can keep counting. Transmission zero. It's zero education. Health issues zero. [[Up front.]] The birthworm zero. Is there more to say? I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u29	A respectable president. I'd like to say as just a team here that I'm much happier with the Senate and the General Board. President, I expected to see you when I entered the council. This is usually a good place to have a conversation with members of all groups, and everyone accepts you. I've been surprised because Generalism has not been good enough, but it's not right to be supportive. I'll just say it here. But there are unique issues that stand out as different. I have to say, the highest. The president has my sympathies in this case, that the prime minister should in this way dissipate after a month from what he himself repeatedly demanded of other ministers when another government was in the last term. I'd like to encourage you to see that this past year and the prime minister sees his own respect in coming here and taking this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u30	A respectable president. I'm sure it's a matter of time before the season's election period is over. The fact is, however, that no group has ever given such campaign promises as the forwarding team of last elections, which were about disintegration of insurance, and it wasn't in the middle of an elected period, and it wasn't at the end of it. It was immediately decommissioned insurance right after the election. I had many volunteer meetings with the forwardees of my district, and it was asked very closely that this by the voters because a lot of people chose the category to be useful to this promise. Hence, it is literally impossible to do anything but to the highest level. The prime minister comes in and represents this most important and important case in the halls of Congress, which is unthinkable because it literally is possible to claim that the highest power is possible. Prime Minister sits in his chair under the cover of this campaign. That is why he is called for to represent his case and answer to a time - set plan for decommissioning insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u31	President. I submitted today, along with other members of the Pirata bill, to legalize the changing of the Aldumannism Act, which, in fact, says the United States of America.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: However, a proposal for mistrust in the government or minister shall be set up for a meeting as soon as possible, and no later than two nights after its distribution, unless there is another agreement between councils. Also says: A member member of the Parliament may ask a vote on a proposal for mistrust in a government or a minister to become secret. At the vote, each senator uses a vote or a vote, or he returns wealth. If people understand why I bring this bill to their senses.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u32	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sæmundsson here showed admirable courage in defending an evil cause and apparently has far greater courage than the highest. Prime Minister. However, he was afraid to agree directly with our demands to the highest degree. The prime minister would come here and explain the status of decommissioned insurance. However, I ask two members of the council who earlier held the interiors and firestorms in charge of the very issue: What do they think? They may be able to help the highest level. The President and the Class Brother to reach a conclusion? They think it's unfair that we get the best. The prime minister here to talk to us about breaking the insurance? Mr. President. It is part of the unregistered regulations of the democratic government order that the World of Congress provides the European Commission with support. Part of this is to determine what is involved in the implementation of the policy. The government policy is clear, but it's not being carried out. [[The president calls.]] And what do they say? People who used to have torn themselves up in the ass on this case? What needs to be done to get the highest. Prime Minister here? [[The president calls.]] Or do you need eight shoulders of horses and garners to force the power of action to fulfill your Christian duties?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u33	Thus, the president is directed to members of the council to respect a talk lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u34	A respectable president. I come up here to try to lay the highest ground on you. President of the team in less than the highest. Prime Minister has a record of what he himself has been doing in terms of insurance and where the group of lawsuits lies with this government. Although, in a historical context, insurance and economics have been in the financial and economic sectors, it's different with this government. With the permission of a president, I will quote a letter from a panel of experts appointed on August 16, 2013. It says: The skills of the team of experts must cancel the prices of new consumer loans. There is a planned schedule at the end of 2013. The group evaluates the impact of these changes in a broad sense and offers suggestions to minimize negative effects. This report was returned to the prime minister. He published it. The Ministry of Presidency released it. So the jury is clearly on the hands of prime minister. And he can't dismiss it. A respectable president. So I would like to suggest that the prime minister be returned, and he insists on paying back his works in this chair. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u35	President. I thought why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, now seated here on the President's throne, tells us earlier that one of us had been talking about a promise being betrayed. I don't think anybody's talking about it except maybe the senators at the Parliament's office earlier today, they're very anxious and think they're cheating on insurance policy measures. The rest of us have been complaining about the ultimate. Prime Minister is not prepared to come here to discuss decommissioning insurance, the one who is a foreman, the prime minister is a government manager who intends to cancel the insurance and we want to discuss it with him. Then there will be a reason. The members of the Future Party, naturally, are dealing with their party plans and prime minister why their major campaign is betrayed. [[The president calls.]] They discuss it with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u36	Mr. President. Of course, yesterday a member of Parliament's Congress decided to discuss decommissioning insurance and then follow today. It seems a bit like people coming here and trying to point responsibility from their own campaign code to the other board in this case. There is a very irresponsible stand to do such things, and this week there is one particular discussion, that is all. This special discussion has been asked for the decision to remove bail at the highest level. Since February, as we have seen, the prime minister will not be surprised if Prime Minister, the Director of the Government, handles this case and represents his case. What's he afraid of? Worldly values have fallen, in his view, many. But so far, the world's record has not fallen. It's okay for him to argue, why hasn't he managed to cancel the insurance policy at once, just as he was about to do. Of course, it is so interesting that he draws things into his ministry and is interested in it but has completely lost interest in this particular case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u37	V.E.G. President. I'd like to present it here for President's conference board that I'm always ready to discuss the insurance policy with anyone. Sadly, though, I found it so hard because of being criticized for it. A senator in the hall that I had not been in the hall to discuss or listen to talks on the activities of the council, that there was a meeting in the welfare department for housing matters, and there are many factors involved. Unfortunately, there are times when meetings in the council are at the same time as a meeting, and I was living at the Ministry of Health at a meeting with the highest level. Ministers, as well as a few other members, on house-to-house consultations. I wanted to make this point. It was not discouragement; it was merely trying to do what I have been asked to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u38	A respectable president. I think there's plenty of time to talk about insurance here in the next few months, and there's no need to worry that they won't get a chance. It is clear that the representatives of the government will be here to discuss the matter with him. Senators of the Board of Overseers. You're talking about the betrayal of the forward party campaign. I'm going to remind you that the season is just over half the time. [[Up front.]] Let's not talk about fraud until the season is over. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] Let's talk about - remember home armor? [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] One of the greatest achievements of the last government, home armor, major cases of the last federal government that was betrayed. [[The president calls.]] It was betrayed from A to Z. It's just a fact.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u39	Hv. 8th yrs Smoke. This has been shown to be the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u40	We're halfway through here. The media hasn't betrayed any campaign promises, they're in the middle of nowhere. [[Up front.]] In the months that follow, people will have plenty of time to discuss this matter. [[The president calls.]] And to be with this circus that's going on here is just unbelievable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u41	A respectable president. A word of speech sounds familiar. The senator mentioned earlier. Let's talk about this later. Let's talk about something else now. Later, we can talk about the price insurance when it's at the highest level. The financial and economic secretary, who is opposed to decommissionment insurance, has handled the situation. I wondered if it's the same thing. Congress officials would trust this government to enter the EU, because they are spoken of as political inseparably, but here it is supposed to be at the highest level. The financial and economic secretary of his project, which he is basically against, like, so many others. These words to keep talking about how we are supposed to talk about something else now - the ideal period is half - a respectable president. You're right. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson points out, the season is half and the highest. The prime minister, having asked for a report and received a report, has not even begun discussing it with the council. That's the situation we're facing right now. It's unacceptable, especially in the campaign hall of the Annexe Party, but it's also just a matter of simple engagement to the highest level. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u42	Mr. President. I'm pretty new in this. I don't understand what this discussion is all about. I don't understand why we're discussing the insurance policy. Price insurance is just a means of calculating interest. Price insurance isn't the problem. The problem will not be solved if we have a variety of growths. Are we better off doing that? We've tried it. The homes in the country went under them. But to invite the homes of the country and to offer people in the country an economy with an Icelandic crown can never go up. It is not possible to offer an economic management as we have today, for an Icelandic home to be a guarantee that the way to the sea will work. The seaside road isn't a state insurance policy. He's a public guarantee by the Icelandic crown. We're looking up at it. [[The president calls.]] Then we argue about the insurance policy. A U.S. dollar is the problem and the economy around it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u43	V.E.G. President. The senators have declared here that they are ready to discuss the insurance policy. So, of course, I'm celebrating. But my wish, my highest. The president is talking to the head of the forward party, which is exactly the highest. Prime Minister, disparagement insurance. That's what I want to do because one of his biggest elections and his party's campaign promises was to cancel the prices after the election ended. And he still holds the task force - even though you wonder if this morning's news might be bigger than the highest. Bjarni son of Benediktsson's finance minister implied, perhaps they're going to some government position - but the highest. The prime minister of Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson is at least still in charge of Iceland's government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u44	V.E.G. President. The members of the Outfit are constantly coming here during the council program with a two-minute written speech on it, as a people's unit, removing the insurance that the government has promised. The prime minister is afraid to take up a discussion that has now been up to less than a year. Hv. paritaprevir In fact, Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir witnessed yesterday that the advance company had held several meetings that specifically covered the insurance and its deduction. They were well attended, and the forwarding party won a wonderful campaign on this point, saying why. Senator. That's what we're calling for, the policy of this government, and that's the highest. A prime minister who is the foreman of that government, and he is a coward if he dares not come here to the conference hall to discuss this policy of the government and to report to the United Nations what the plan is. No, in a pathetic way, like hell. paritaprevir Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunnardóttttir did last night, when the ball hit to the top. Secretary of finance, say the ball is there. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I'm not gonna say what I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u45	Mr. President. I'm counting on it. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson will see to it that his boss and chief man. The prime minister is here for this discussion, for he said that we could quite expect to discuss these matters, that would be plenty of time. I'm not sure that the people behind the homes of the country that the senators have been talking about were expecting to wait until the ideal period was half-and-a-long. As we noted earlier, people were sitting in a meeting where they said it would be done just like that and not need a long time. This government has virtually no issues. Day after day, week after week, we are finished early in the day because the government is not making a big issue. Would senators who sit in the hall trying to carry volleyball from their people be willing to wait 18 months for a special discussion of such important matters? I'm just asking. [[The president calls.]] I wouldn't be happy. Councilmen need to understand that everything cannot be offered and waiting for 18 months for a special discussion on such an important matter is not acceptable, no matter who.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u46	A respectable president. I have no idea how to comment on the fact that this is a special topic for discussion on this important matter, the insurance policy, but according to the language and comment this has fallen doesn't seem to me to be unnecessary. This refers to decommissioning insurance, and because it's being held here at the highest level. Secretary of finance that he is specifically opposed to decommissioning insurance, I think it's best to keep the insurance in its place that is not some death insurance that is bound in and that can be divided into groups if they want to maintain it dead or not. I remind you that this is an unsurpassed loan, an unscrupulous consumer loan, and last time I heard of a case going on in financial companies as far as it was concerned, there was a much less demand for unsecured loans than in securities. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, it is probably a better option to discuss whether there is a more favorable option, a securable loan, or an irresponsible loan, but the discussion is not about disintegration of the insurance policy because the people here have spoken, many of them at the highest level. Prime Ministers and those who want this discussion, however, agree on one thing: They want to ban securities of loans, and they want to reduce consumer freedom of choice. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u47	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the Commission's members for a change in the law on Iceland's international development team. As a world of Congress knows anything, the matter has been a significant subject during the high Council but also in the State Department itself. As a world knows, the bill is being discussed for the second time. A joint bill, as well as physically accurate, was discussed during the last assembly, but it was not taken up 2nd. Like a snooze. Senators know. However, the matter was handled in a precise way at that time. The matter has been discussed in the Senate for about 22 hours, as well as a discussion of 12 meetings by the State Department. I'm going to explain the opinion of the greater part. Under these circumstances, each one writes a sledgehammer. Senators of the majority of the committee's section, but why. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason will do so in advance, so that it is cared for. The committee has discussed the matter and has received its meeting in this session several representatives. The case was given a review to all who had previously given reviews, and the members of previous reviews brought them to trial by the previous members of the council. In this event at present, the committee has been contacted by Kristján Andri Stefánsson, Haraldur Aspelundur, Helga Hauksdóttir, Auðbjörg Halldórsdóttir and Þórarinna Söebech from the Ministry of State, Engilbert Guðmundsson and Ágústa Gísladóttir of the European Development Institute of Iceland, Daði Kristófersson Monsosson and Jónína Einarsdóttir from Social Sciences University of Iceland, and then the Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir of the University of Iceland and Guðmundsson from the Red Cross, but as well as the Red Cross. According to a report related to these matters, members of the Parliament know him, and the bill is based, among other things, on his conclusion. As I told you earlier, the Commission received reviews of the case from the European Union of Iceland, the Red Cross, the staff of the European Development Agency and the European Development Agency. These are the members who also sent in reviews of the case at the previous council, and in their reviews now a judicial hearing on their previous position was presented, for the matter is actually the same. To illustrate, when the matter was discussed at the previous legislature, many came to a meeting. The Foreign Affairs Committee but also others, so I believe that there is a reason for identifying who came. It was from the Ministry of State, Kristján Andri Stefánsson, María Erla Marelsdóttir, Harald Aspelund, Helga Hauksdóttir, Matthías Geir Pálsson, Þórarinna Söebech, and Auðbjörg Halldórsdóttir's daughter. Engilbert Guðmundsson, Hannes Hauksson and Ágústa Gísladóttir of Iceland's Developmental Institute of Evolution, Thorstensen Viðar Thorstensen, Hermann Ottósson and Nína Helgadóttir from the Red Cross, Dild Sigurgeirsdóttir Kristófersson from the University of Iceland's Social Sciences and Sigurgesdótir's daughter Sigurbjörg of the University of Iceland. Previously, the committee had received the published report I mentioned earlier, the development team of Iceland: Organization, efficiency and effectiveness, from July 2014, which was the basis for the work group that won the bill. Then came the Council of the 144th Parliament of the Federal Association of Iceland, the University of Social Science, the Red Cross, and the National Development Institute of Iceland. Like what? Councilmen know well the objective of the bill to promote increased efficiency and efficiency in the management of Iceland's international development cooperation and to improve the policy of the mercenaries. Changes proposed to the law No. 121/2008, of Iceland's international development cooperation, is mainly involved in the arrangement and the global development team in order to ensure that all activities of the European Development Agency will be introduced into the Ministry of State. This we all know, and we all know that it has been, and there are differing opinions among members of the council. That is why there has been a number of discussions at both the Committee and here. The bill also suggests changes in size, composition and role of the development network to be a minister for advice on international development policy support policies. At the same time, the current team of cooperations on international development would be reduced. An adjustment of the government's policies on development cooperation and its contribution to the General Assembly is proposed. Finally, the bill suggests changes to the law No. 73/2007, the Icelandic Peace Guard and its participation in international peacekeeping. A career for peace falls under development cooperation and, therefore, all the work of the Icelandic Peacekeeper. According to the bill, measures listed as a peacekeeping project are changed in order to meet the developments in the international environment in which the Peace Guard operates. As members of Parliament also know and the bill this is based largely on, it was the OECD, DiaC, who focused on the development of Iceland's development team in 2013 and had positive results. However, there were some suggestions, including to help the Icelandic government coordinate their work in a two - sided and multinational field as well as to see if Iceland's development and structure would be the best option. Following this, as I explained earlier, Þórir Guðmundsson of Iceland's Red Cross was assigned to perform an analysis of methodology, organization and procedures for the implementation of Iceland's development cooperation and was one of its findings that most effective and efficiency would be achieved by coordination in one place. A respectable president. It is this core that the discussions among members of the committee and natural members of the Parliament have focused mainly on whether it is worth bringing the Agency's project into the Ministry of State, whether it solves the problems it is intended to solve, and whether it is guaranteed that these are the best interests of it. This has certainly been the case with conflicting views and arguments. I would also like to guess, sir, a respectable president, that this project will change somewhat with the bill. The bill is suggested to replace the development teamwork committee with the developing teamwork committee and a collaborate on global development teamwork that is active. In addition, under the current arrangement, the General Assembly chooses a member of the Development Committee as a minister to appoint representatives with the Committee. The Development Committee is aimed at ensuring the presence of members of the Parliament to the core of the conference and the decision of a minister on long-term international development cooperation. However, the International Development Team is appointed to 17 representatives, including From the Icelandic humanitarian organisations of development cooperation and relief work, education community, and bodies of the labour market, as well as the seven representatives from the development committee mentioned above. The Council is aimed at fulfilling a key decision-making role, including A plan for international development cooperation. However, the bill suggests that only one party, i.e. a change in developing teamwork committee, to advise international development cooperation instead of two earlier. According to this suggestion, five members of the General Assembly, instead of members of a body of Congress, shall sit on a development committee with representatives rooted in a university, a workforce, and a civil organization, as well as a chairman. That would be the firm occasion of the Generals. Then there are certain things that I'm not going to do exactly. This is shown in a panel of committees, which, of course, base on the Commission opinion of the past council, which deals with factors related to the will reflected in the bill, which is doing these tasks as effective and practical as possible and, of course, first and lastly with the goal of achieving the success we all want to pursue in this series. Thus, a greater proportion of the foreign Directorates stress the need to look out for this efficiency and effectiveness in Iceland's international development team so that it will be fired with the most success. Already there is a government's will to raise Iceland's contributions to international development cooperation, it is urgent to put aside the future development programme within the Icelandic government so that it will be in the best interests of its own. The majority believe that this is the result of the changes proposed in the existing bill and suggest that it be agreed on as unchanged. For reviews, I noted that under the titled literature, as well as what is being presented here, being an authority. Councilmen Elín Hirst, Karl Garðarsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, with the above notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u48	Mr. President. Now, no one lies in the affairs of evolutionary cooperation, a very delicate group of subjects. In this area, funds are being spent on very important projects in distant lands. It is of great importance to monitor how money is spent, and it is also of great importance to make peace with one another. It can be read from the history of this group of languages in Iceland that politicians have always tried to reconcile themselves across groups on how the development programme should be conducted until already the highest level. The minister of state gives this bill to the last council and again now, knowing that there is much disagreement. Hv. Government officials have noted that the evidence of substantiateing the development of a developing research agency is very little. This is reviewed in the opinion of the latter part. I'd like to ask you what. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, who has promoted discussions, does not consider it an important step to upset this group by putting this matter to the Senate in nonsense, thus breaking a magazine on how decisions have been made regarding developing cooperation in the country to this day. I'd also like to ask the senator if she agrees with the Ministry's interpretation that the DEC report, which is used in the bill's report to support this change, gives evidence of it. At least I have read that report, and I can't see from the reading that it is in any way being suggested as high as possible. Minister has decided to go here. On the contrary, the THRE has received very good judgments in all the external assessments of their jobs, which are relevant in the case of such a delicate case party. These are two questions, Mr. President, to which I am directed. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u49	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's concern is the importance of trying, as far as possible, to settle such matters as most others. However, it is often that way, knowing why. A senator as well as the one standing here, who has often tried to pressure me into settling matters that have not been achieved to make it the final outcome. This, of course, is always unfortunate, but it does not make any difference that the matter has already been given the necessary material treatment, and the situation is taken care of, as is the case. A senator mentioned earlier, a second time earlier, and it is the desire of a greater part of the administrative sector here at the council to resolve the matter in this way. I trust we will. Councilmen develop this tendency not to upset the activities of this important institution. We must be careful that once the decision is made, it will work so that everyone can be comfortable with pleasures. As for the DiaC report, I also agree with the senator, not that this analysis was completed in that year as well. A senator mentioned. As a result, a report I quoted earlier is made that suggests a certain way of doing so. It has been made clear to the committee meetings, and it is the opinion of those who submit the bill, that it is not clearly said that it is, because the DEC does not recommend one particular way, in order to be handled. This has been repeated in the speech of the officials we have discussed with and the representatives we have discussed. DAC never mixes with what kind of arrangement it is in every country, and it really doesn't. DAC reported that Iceland had to look for ways to ensure more efficiency and efficiency, but they do not recommend one more way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u50	Mr. President. DAC does not recommend a course beyond that of others, but it does conclude that the experience in Iceland in this category is very positive. As I came to in 1st. then it's totally incomprehensible to me why you're going to this abolt, I'm going to let me say, without any particular evidence to it. It's just getting ready for something without any logical recommendation. Experience is good, and I'm really worried about it, and I say it to what. A senator here, though. People in general are willing to try to settle matters, and little has been done to settle the matter. It is not only this matter that is subject to but also the fact that Iceland's program, of developing cooperation, has been upset since the administration of the present government. It has been cut down, prioritized in a row, and it is not only during the last assembly, but it is back on the budget to the highest level. A minister did not even pass. [[The president calls.]] Of course, the jury is upset. I think it's an assignment for the President of the Foreign Affairs Committee, huh? A senator, trying to find a way to settle matters in this delicate group of subjects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u51	A respectable president. I've come to realize this, and I've become a very strong impression, both here at the Senate Hall and at the foreign committee meetings, that they don't agree. Senators do not agree on how the subject should be handled. On the other hand, I have also sensed the strong and firm will of all members of the council to make sure that it does not affect the case as such or upset it. In this regard, we will no doubt address whether the arrangement is better. The nations around us have acted in different ways. There is no single universal rule or way of handling these matters. This is the conclusion of the Continental Department, and I make up earlier what I said that at the meeting of the Committee, the comments were specifically addressed on the law and on the report, as to whether DAC was saying one way above another. It is not, but it noted that policies, initiatives, and arrangements could be better handled, and then stated, in a report concerning the son of Þórir Guðmundsson, that it is his primary conclusion that coordination should be in one place and that the projects would be more successful. [[The president calls.]] And that is why the work is done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee for an excellent advance in terms of material and circumstances. She is certainly not envious of her lot to present a case that I believe at least the members of the Independence Party have little conviction. The foreign ministers who have served at the Ministry of State have all immediately received the same treatment from a few men in the core of government, all of whom have visited them and have suggested this. Those who have been wet behind their ears have at times been seduced, have brought this case here to the council, and have been sent back as hard as it happened. 2008. Some people just threw up, like the one standing here. One of the highest. A former minister of foreign affairs, Davíð Oddsson, asked the case, and he came to feel this way with a fine assistant, now the highest. Education minister of Illugi Gunnarsson. V.E.G. The Minister of Education made certain conclusions. She was deliberately. It was the one that Davíð the son of Oddsson put before his officials to enforce. It involved changing the organization, but it goes in the opposite direction, carrying all the projects in the field of development within the Ministry of State to that institution. Mr. President. It was one of three options that Þórir Guðmundsson proposed. I'd like to ask you why. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee whether it does not count, because it is talking about reconciliation, one Mass worth considering the arrangement that Davíð Oddsson and Illugi - mannered son of Gunnarsson, two fine leaders of many lives, submitted in their own time. Never miss this once, I completely agree with these two gentlemen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u53	A respectable president. I don't know the crisis of the State Department like a former foreign minister but I don't intend to comment on his story explanation. There is now evidence that we have a warm current when a former foreign minister speaks in this way about our comrades in the Independence Party, he has not always agreed with the individuals mentioned here. Of course, you're right. A senator and a former chief. Ministers that these opinions have been divided, and the answer is also true. or the highest. Minister - now I'm beginning to confused completely whether Össur Skarphéðinsson is a senator or a minister, he's somehow in our minds for far too long - but I think the conclusion that he mentioned is the same, it's really the same now because in the report by Þórir Guðmundsson, it's pointed out that the other way had been possible. So the common conclusion for all is this: We need to combine it to one place. It's better to have it in one place than many, though we can agree on that. However, this is the conclusion now, and I have deep respect for Þórir Guðmundsson, who stressed it and clearly explained why he believed it to be the best way to go. He pointed out that in many nations he spoke to, experts feel that it is a very successful step, a good step to take these assignments and put them under the Ministry of State. Hence, after his long review, his conclusion was that it would be beneficial. I'll admit I don't know the work of the former assistant Davíð Oddsson when he was in the State Department, I don't know that report, but it sounds like the conclusion is the same, that it has to be united in one place. This is the conclusion, and this is the will that the greater part stresses this time. All I'm saying is, Össur Skarphéðinsson, ex-fifth. Minister and current drive. A senator, to use his knowledge and experience in the group and also to look for ways to make peace and to make sure that they can follow in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u54	Mr. President. I don't know how to make a better choice than by suggesting that all delegates agree to the proposal of the former provincial party. Let's leave it. I'm not gonna argue with what. A senator of history. However, what it refers to as a secret lies in public evidence and was recently published on the website of a certain government agency, all of which are traced. Hv. A senator said earlier, and wasn't that what I was asking her about, that we would have no doubt debate about this in this discussion whether the transfer of the U.S. Department of State Department of State would solve the problems intended. But here's the knife in the cow. Hv. A senator speaks very clearly. She had no difficulty speaking, but she did not tell us what her problems were. What are the problems to be solved? Mr. President. Is this what is here not simply discussing it as a matter of course? paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, put so cleverly last year: Why make things right?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u55	A respectable president. In my words, there was no judgment that the Agency, the development network of Iceland, had not done its part very well and that it is repeated, has been shown in talks and matters and in the bill itself, and in all the passage we have had on this matter, that there is no disagreement that the Agency has carried out its task well. She has both great knowledge, much experience, and the ability to handle delicate and difficult tasks, but no one is suggesting that the staff in it do not continue to carry out their assignments, that they not move in order to make sure that we keep up - to - date with it. So in this regard, there is no judgment against the Bureau in any way except a good judgment. Let us expect the Agency to do something even better and to make sure that the industry continues to be professional and good. The main argument of uniting these tasks with one hat, wherever saved, is going out on efficiency, efficiency, and increased success in these projects. That's the main thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u56	V.E.G. President. Here is a discussion of a change in the law on Iceland's international development cooperation, etc. (organization), which is the 91st case during this council, has been given a special prompt treatment. Hv. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, brought here an opinion I must say that I felt rather dreary. That's why I'm asking myself what. The chairman, the newly appointed head of the State Department, when this case was discussed and referred to the State Department, where it has been for two weeks or so, received a special order from the Foreign Minister to finish the matter immediately, in other words, that it would receive the special shortcut that it is receiving here. I ask because I know that there are three new members, including the chairman of the Committee. Didn't you need more time? But my question is quite ready to go. Senator: Did the chairman of the Committee receive a specific order to end the matter at once?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u57	A respectable president. No, I have not received any such commands from any man on this matter, and I probably would not have accepted or responded to them. It's not right either. A member of the body said that this matter has been given a special prompt treatment, and he feels that the opinion of the committee is demeaning, it is impossible to pass judgment on this matter. This opinion, of course, is based on a committee article, and it was made clear in my case, which was presented here following a significant discussion and treatment of the case during the last council. It is not true that the case arrived two weeks ago. It's been a long time since, the case went through a review to all the members who were thought to need a review, all those who had been given the review of the last council. All had the usual time to give review, three weeks. So it was not unorthodox. Since then, the committee has held several meetings and reviewed the matter, and it has been made available to visitors. I beg you to forgive me for being referred to here as a series of quick treatments. There's nothing to support it. However, I have not been so upset that there are differing opinions in the committee. There are members of Congress who do not consider the matter a good thing, who do not want to see it done, but the committee has had an excellent concordance to conclude the matter, and we have worked on it without having special quick treatment in mind. We have done this as if we have thought it to be a reason, but of course, as the senator knows with more Congress experience than I do, the opinion now is somehow based on the fact that, as I said earlier, the matter was severely treated and treated. This has been discussed in 12 meetings of the Foreign Affairs Committee already. This, of course, indicates that the matter has already existed and was discussed here. And all the comments received that there was no additional consideration from those who gave reviews and comments all cited in their previous reviews.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u58	V.E.G. President. The reason I asked about the quick treatment was that everyone realizes that a special extra meeting was held on Friday at a foreign committee to tear matters out of the committee. It seems quite unnatural to me that when it is not long since the assembly was set, if it has been so urgent to call a meeting, which was criticized for another big meeting held in town, and many members of Parliament wanted to be there. What I also noticed was that a new chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee was doing. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, believed very important, it was her mind, to settle the matter, as was the case we'll discuss here. I totally agree with what. That's what a senator does. I have felt that way, and I am doing my Senate work when a serious disagreement is being discussed in an effort to settle matters. I could mention a controversial case, a law on a structured program, which was criticized here, and very divided views were on, but we were able to settle the case so that all the senators who were in the council elected by the law. So I ask why. A senator and president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, depending on what may be. A senator once said that it would be desirable to make peace with those who argue about this matter, whether it is worth one Mass, and whether it is an option to wait for the opinions of the so-called DAC on peer review, and that the law will not accept it until six months, let's say, after that. Thus, a panel can obtain and examine the report and discuss the matter, either making adjustments or no changes, and the law went into effect. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator would consider what she once said about the importance of trying to settle the matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u59	A respectable president. In fact, even those of us who take a special interest in the political process of finding the reconciliation, if present, may at times have to realize that the peace is not there. My assessment of these matters and after observing her from the Hall of Congress, both in the last month and again, it is very difficult to try, and I think that it is, and we all know it, next impossible. [[Up front.]] In the administrative part, we take up the matter and more of the committee because we feel that a discussion about the matter is over there. We feel that it has been reviewed in the way the committee can and the outcome has been established. Regarding an extra meeting at the State Department, which was held last Friday, people can be completely able to deal with the need for meetings at this time, etc., I'm not going to have any particular opinions about it, but it was my request that further visitors be called to the Committee, and the guests could only come from nine to 15 minutes before ten this morning. That is why the meeting was held at that time. I have a lot of respect for a man. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor for the Supreme Court. The president of Iceland, this time a reason to agree with the request of my share to meet two more parties, who later became four at the meeting. That's why it's time for the meeting. It had become my request and my assessment is that the matter is finished in the committee, and now it is taking care of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u60	Mr. President. Hv. The head of the State Department does not like it when it leads to the fact that I and many members of the Foreign Affairs Committee - all those on the side of the government side - are rather upset with this matter. To be honest, I would have wanted to give so that we would have prospered in making peace with others. I think that if I had, for example, got to figure it out, with a bang. The chairman of the State Department of State, the way to settle, would have been able to find a way that the Obi of Congress could have been satisfied. I noticed that when a discussion with a 1st issue occurred. This matter, and all the 22 hours that men spent discussing in the first year and in the winter, that those who spoke of the Independence Party, either in the speeches of the east, seemed not very pleased with this matter. I also notice why. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason, who had a very firm view of these discussions, is careful about the matter, and I look forward to seeing the cause. The senator interprets that in advance. That's why. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason, who on behalf of the Independence Party, said this to the 1st. ... awrong.: You're not supposed to be in institutions. He also said that humans should not be changing successful institutions. It's the point of this institution that she's been successful. There has been no conviction, from any member of the administration team, on this matter. I don't think that's what this was a story for, so I'm not in any way exaggerating. The head of the State Department is not speaking out of conviction. I believe, however, that she feels that it doesn't matter which side of this piece is on its side. In this way, I have seen the independence party appear to be in the case. The other is absolutely clear, however, that it would be very difficult to reconcile with the government on the case, even though we senators could easily get it here at the High General Assembly. Of course, it is because of the highest cause. Secretary of state has no other cause than this. This is the only case at the highest. The minister of foreign affairs comes with the council, and this has become the focus of foreign policy. As a result, what causes it to the highest might be. Minister wants to go this way. He had the same problem. The head of the State Department was asked what problem this change should be fixed. And his tongue was wrapped about his head, and his tongue about his teeth, as it were a crown. Chairman of the State Department here in answer to the court. He couldn't tell us about it. The fact is, there have been no evidence to explain why a developing research agency should be put down. Mr. President. I've sat here in these sales, and I've been standing here longer, but maybe I'd like to recollect. At all that time, my hair has changed from brown-red to blue gray, but at all that time, I have never faced a case that seems to be on the part of the government to be as useless as what is right here. There is literally no reason for man to attack this expedition, which involves putting down an institution, which, according to all the testimony we have received at the Foreign Affairs Committee, can be called a modeling agency. All of this has been very successful in developing cohesion institutions. For example, it has been shown that it is an institution that has, since 2008, I think, kept within the framework of the budget. A government accountant has seen no reason to comment on this. And the institutions that have been sought for opinions regarding cooperation with her have also set a good record for her. I also refer to the opinion as a dog. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir here referred to earlier, i.e. Assessments of the DEC Committee. It speaks highly of the European Development Agency. It tells us that she has the ability to perform outstanding tasks within her. It specifically speaks of the ability of the institutions we are here to do well and within them to achieve and work hard toward the objectives of the Agency. Then you ask yourself, " Why is this expedition being carried on? ' I'm just telling you honestly: This is the first time I'm standing here at the Council in the face of a situation where I don't understand the purpose. The only explanation I can find is the highest. A minister has committed a crime to say yes to the officials, a few, who would have increased authority in the Ministry. He brought the matter into the council. There was a wave of conflict, and it simply shows us who is the cause. I'd like to, Mr. President, let me say that this is a very personal decision based on no reason. At least I have not been able to identify any of these moisture. You may ask, Mr. President: What is needed in order to make a decision to put an entire body down? Isn't there something negative that the Agency has shown? Doesn't she have something to do with what the Minister has to do with what he or she has to do? Does she not have to have shown that her business is beyond her limits? Doesn't it have to tell you that she's a heavy worker? She's uptight? She didn't come back? Does it not seem that the Agency, in some way, does not meet the requirements of the European Commission and the Minister of the Management Board? Yes, I think we can all agree that something of this must be there for a government to think of presenting such a bill. What was witness why? paritaprevir But Birna Kristjánsdóttir's daughter, who in a short time in the Foreign Affairs Committee, has had nothing to learn? Hv. A member of the Committee declared that she had covered all the talks given on the subject, read all the evidence, all the comments - and what is the result? We just heard it a few minutes ago. A senator simply said tactfully, asking how she experienced what the Agency was like, that the Agency could not be put to words. She said, the agency's been doing a good job. She's good. The workers are professional. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir in this way has, in effect, echoed all that is also found in the development committee, called the DiaC. And not just that. When you wonder, " Why is it the highest? ' Minister's about to go on this expedition, and you're gonna show a pretty good attitude when asked about how he feels about the Bureau. V.E.G. You see, a minister has said that he does not find any fault with the Agency. He's got nothing on her to put. And not only that, but it also says in a paper with the bill, by permission of a president: THESSI's done a very good job in the field, so it's taken care of. The report also says that the European Development Agency, by permission of Presidents, has made many reports on independent assessments. Mr. President. How, then, should you understand the ultimate reason? By this means, will the government lay down the Agency? Maybe it's because the chairman of the budget board, huh? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who ran by this court, declared that her first job as chairman of a budget committee was to cut down largely on contributions for development cooperation, that it was just the first verse? Could be the rage of others. The senator to THE TSSI, who has been observed many times, is showing that this is the highest. Minister of the state, which apparently is her game in this case, suggest that the Agency be put down? [[Up front.]] There is nothing more to be found than some of such motives in this matter. As you examine the history of the Agency, you can see that no specific violations of the Agency have been identified. On the contrary, the THRE in many articles has been an exemplary institution of the State's foundingors, in all respects. For example, it has been an example of adapting to new demands. She's certainly been on the clock. She's taken the initiative. It has adopted novel methods, and it has adopted a number of innovations, which have been the result of the deserved attention of other nations. Here are some examples. For example, the approach to projects in East Africa, where Iceland contributes a considerable amount of money to develop fossilisation and use, caused foreign institutions to give more out than the Icelanders spend on this particular project. Thus, the Norwegian Development Fund has contributed 700 million, which is more than the Icelandic government has ever assigned to do. Similarly, another institution came and wanted to share in an assignment in Rwanda. There were two million to three million euros, several hundred million dollars. Thus, in total, the Agency, under the lead of the Engilbert of Guðmundsson, could gain a thousand million to cooperate with what the Icelandic government is offering through a development - working agency for many positive progress, all of which are seeing greatly improved in the countries where we are working. As I said before, a Government Accounting has declared that the Agency has never gone, or at least not since 2008, beyond the framework of the budget it has been placed in. I think it might be said that under the lead of the son of Engilbert Guðmundsson, there were new winds that have noticed far and wide. These new winds are especially due to the president of the often mentioned development organization of other institutions who worked for a quarter of a century in the future. The innovations brought the Engilbert Guðmundsson into the work of the European Development Agency when he accepted it. That's where he's been developing them now for a few years. Indeed, he did, along with the good people who have worked with him, in a way that makes it safe to say that today, indeed, the European Development Agency is in the highest order of such institutions. This freshness, which I noticed as a minister when I was in charge of this group, and which has attracted the attention of many others, for example, is shown in the policy that the Agency strives to put the local people in the territory where the projects are carried out, not just responsibility, but a share in choosing and developing projects. As a result of the THRE, these priorities have sat in the regime and, in effect, changed the direction and emphasis that we as a nation have had in developing cooperation these past few years. In effect, it was the TSSI that disappeared from the major work of the past and put much more emphasis on improving the environment, working with the root, doing as we have been doing in three African countries, and especially in Malawi, caring for education, caring for health care, directing the budget to improve the situation of mothers and their children; teaching their mothers to read, to provide them with access to health care facilities, and what may not be the least important thing, to make access to fresh and clean water. As a result, the situation in these regions, e.g. in Malawi where we've been, completely changed, e.g. in the Mangochi region of Malawi, where hundreds of people died of cholera before recording this approach. cholera has been eliminated in the areas where TheSSI has worked. This has changed the lives of these people. We have shared in creating an environment in which women can feed their children so that they are much more likely to survive the birth. I can tell you that this doesn't believe, the importance of this great and fresh approach to a developing research agency, except the one who's seen it. It was unforgettable for me to go as a minister to the fields of Malawi and see this for myself. To enter the snow in the jungle, where there was a small building, where women may have come ten miles to feed. They told me how important this matter was. ▪ Now the children do not die, the midwife who received me with a small, white race inside the jungle said to me. Or talking to doctors and nurses, who, in the power of this approach, were adopted by the TSSI, pass through the jungle's zests on motorcycles and if they were unable to handle sick people on bicycles. It was this approach that attracted the attention of other institutions of much larger countries, such as the German Development Agency, who specifically asked permission to learn exactly the approach that TheSSI has adopted in Africa so that the big nation could learn from it. Today, development teamwork is defined as one of the carriers of Iceland's foreign policy. THOSE has brought about these excellent policies in a way that brings praise to everyone, not only me as the former minister, but also to the current minister and minister. The head of the State Department, and now all these people, and the council, if at all possible, are going to award the Agency, which no one has ever found to be, by bringing it down. This is what I meant when I said before, Mr. President, that I never had in my long career here ever seen a case that has been as strange, as odd as no man ever gets a bottom line. In this situation, it would have been far better to consider, for example, whether to take on increased assignments better care of the YSSI bonds. A senator and chairman of the State Department of State made it right to wait for the Icelanders to work in development, because this government, after cutting down large amounts of donations, from a developing cohesion program adopted here in 2011, about four billion people, has at least announced the slow increase in donations for development cooperation. In this situation, Mr. President, I would have felt that it was much more likely to be the role of the Foreign Affairs Committee, especially the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, than the rest of the members of the Committee, to consider the best way to look to the future. You're right. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir said that we, who are on the committee, were certainly given room to bring them to us as we would like. I thought, though, that there would be a lot better reviews and more careful reviews of available evidence, especially because of this, as well. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller said that there were three new members of the Foreign Affairs Committee. One of them has a snooze. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir. I suppose, after listening to her tour here, about what is presented in the VA report on the SISSI development team, that would have been a good time to stop and look at things a little better. It is not true, as shown in the report on the bill, that the DEC assessment was suggested that the arrangement be changed. Hv. paritaprevir True, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir made much more careful of this, but her case suggested that the report had given strong counsel to make changes. That's not true. There's a misunderstanding, and there's one of the many misunderstandings because I don't want to call it a mistransduction that is listed by the bill, which appears over and over again that the DEC assessment provides indications or clues as to changing the arrangement. It's not. However, it clearly states that when the DEC Committee is working, it is looking back at a new reality in the environment of developing cooperation in Iceland. It will then be looking at a strategy recently adopted by the superimposed General Assembly, which suggested that contributions be progressively increased and increased to development cooperation until it reached, in 2020, 0.7% of GDP. This, in the opinion of the DEC Committee, leads to a huge new project, which, of course, is the correct conclusion. The program adopted by the Parliament with the special blessing of the current head of the Independence Party, which claimed to be more practical, faced the challenge of multiplying the contributions for development. Under such circumstances, the DAC Commission directed to the Icelandic government that they would evaluate the development community in Iceland. They did not say that they did not respond to our present position; nor did they say that they would be able to cope with the new assignments that we concluded with that resolution. Nowhere, so that it is emphasized, in the opinion of the DEC Committee at any given time, is there any reason to suggest that the Agency should be put down. This needs to be made clear because it's wrong which says in a paper with the highest bill. Ministers to consider from the OECD Development Committee that the arrangement needs to be adjusted. This is also shown in the bill article, which appeared many times in the talk at the highest. Minister, that the arrangement and frame around the development of our Icelanders would be something special. This would have developed a special version of developing cohesion, a system that was completely different from anything else. This is wrong, Mr. President. This is part of the misunderstanding, or the false claims on which the main subject of the bill is based. Going through a dog. For example, the Foreign Affairs Department made it clear - as if in the case of Már Kristófersson Máls Christopherson sem ræða mál við ég fyrir hönd of Ísland's Social félagsvísindasvið Háskóli as well as Professor Jónína Einarsdóttir - that it would be absolutely clear that the arrangement in Iceland, where there is one hand and where there is observation and policy in another hand, is fully in line with what more of the institutions in this field are in place. There is another question. What exactly are other nations now doing in this regard? Take such countries as Italy, which is very active in developing cooperation. The last Italian government began to reconsider its development cooperation. It called on a group of wise men and women and, in a careful and deliberate manner, the Italian government acted on the motion of this committee. What did those suggestions involve? In turning the Italian arrangement into a special institution, just as the TSSI did and taking the projects out of the Ministry. In other words, Mr. President, what the Italian government considered best to answer the demands of time, regarding development cooperation arrangements, the Icelandic government is rejecting. This may reflect the amount of crap that can be read out of suggestions at the highest rate. Minister. I'll get to that then, Mr. President, which I think is the worst part of this bill. It's the exaggerations and innuendos that appear against the Agency, and thereby inevitably also to its employees, that she has not been in the business. Time and again, we are talking about the need for this change in order to prevent double action. Time and again it's spoken of, as in the speeches. Minister, that it needs to ensure that the YSSI is in line with Iceland's foreign policy. Time and again, it is emphasized that the TSSI and the State Department must speak one voice. And over and over again, it is said that there is a need for practicality and management within the Agency. The members of the Committee this year, and last year we followed all the visitors who came to us to give an example of where it had happened that the Agency had not joined the foreign policy of the Icelandic government, but we did not get an example. There was no way to point out one example. V.E.G. At the end of last year's discussion, a minister expressed a dark voice that there were things he couldn't tell about in this hall. It would best be discussed by a State Department of State, within four walls, under the cover of the trust that exists there. It was done. This is made clear in the committee party we have returned, the smaller part. This is also shown in the comments of TSSI because they refer to this example. It was only that at the time of a certain issue involving the persecution of homosexuals in Uganda, the ministry and its employees had to be consulted in order to make peace with everyone. Of course, in the end, the Ministry was fully satisfied with what was being concluded. This is nothing but a practice in the foreign service, where men in the field and those at home are in charge of their advice, and they decide in what way to present Iceland's case. This was the only case. There has been nowhere to point out anything that is not exemplary in the management of this institution. So I have to say in the end, Mr. President, that I am convinced that there has never been a bill that is as important as what we're discussing here that has as little or even no support for itself. It's never happened before that we've been here for days, like last year, and even this year, and we've discussed this case, and on every occasion, when it's the highest. Ministers have been here, we've worked out where the examples were, showing that the Agency was not successful enough and what problems were needed to be solved by laying down the TSSI. These experiences have never occurred. So it's a good decision. The minister has nothing to do with himself, and he is doing this only because he was stupid to listen to his officials, while he was wet behind his ears, saying yes. In their eyes, he cannot allow himself to present the matter. That's the only explanation I've got for this case. I believe, under these circumstances, it would have been much wiser to look into the matter from the choices that Þórir Guðmundsson set out in his great report. There were two main options. One was to have the order of the ongoing development team, the other order was to transfer projects from the State Department to the Development Agency. The highest authority on this in Iceland, Professor Jónína Einarsdóttir, who has both practitional and theoretical experience in developing cooperation, came to the Commission and considered, and the review of Iceland's Social Sciences University agreed with her conclusion, that was the same conclusion that Davíð Oddsson found at his time: Best for the jury to take a job from the State Department of State to DESI. [[The president calls.]] The worst problem for the jury would be doing what's going on here today, laying down the Agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u61	A respectable president. This is not a very mysterious matter in itself, at least not in principle. It is a report, and it presents a number of points that can be considered. But one thing sparked my curiosity, and that was the highest. Minister didn't think he could talk about it here. It's about this alleged rhyme or a problem with communication as well as mental illness. In Uganda, the ideal country of homosexuals. Where it is. A senator is, of course, former minister of foreign affairs. I find it appropriate to ask, and perhaps reflect on the surface a little bit: Is there something in the relationship between public employees who are so bad that it causes an institution to be laid down or that the whole states have changed because of conflict or communication between employees of the state? I'm asking why. A senator was aware that during the last term, when he was a minister of foreign affairs, there was a problem of communication that could justify such large steps, whether they were in the intention of putting the Agency down and moving it to the State Department of State or vice versa or whatever. I find it hard to believe that we stand here, elected agents, and we talk seriously about putting down an institution or changing its role because employees don't get along. It's that thing I don't understand. And part of the reason why I don't understand this is that there is nothing more material to be done except this one point with Uganda. If there's anything else that depends on it, I think it's important that we get it to the surface; if we're going to discuss it here at the high Council, which, of course, is supposed to be an open field.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u62	Mr. President. That's quick. There was never any problem with cooperation between the Ministry's staff and the employees while I was in charge there. It's been clearly demonstrated, among other things, by the highest degree. Minister, that no such thing has been going on ever since. It came over and over again in conversation with guests who were both representatives of the Ministry and the UNI, that communication had been extremely smooth and good, and in the DaAC report it is specifically discussed and talked about smooth, smooth and professional communication. But I don't know what the highest emotions are. Minister may have developed. He may not have liked the reasonable response of the members of THESSI. They related their views, and they reported how this trend is developing abroad. It was clear to the highest. A minister was not comfortable with that. This was shown by the fact that when the minister eventually decided to visit the area that we have in developing cooperation with, he did not want any of his staff to follow him. It has never occurred before that a minister has made such visits without any director or director of the Agency's work to accompany him on such a mission. I'm just finding out that it was about a personal whim. Minister to address. He has never been able to reason on this matter, no more than the one he gave earlier in history for the opinion of the greater part. The rest of the part has no reason to do this. In fact, one of them says that the highest criticism has been brought about, as we may later hear. So that's what I'm saying. The cooperation has always been irreprehensible, and the origin of the THRE has general international respect in its sectors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u63	A respectable president. I believe why. A senator and a former chief. Minister of foreign affairs when he says so. It is stated in this minority list, which we both stand for, that it appears that it was a firm policy of the State Department officials for a long time rather than the politicians to drop the TSSI. So you find evidence here and there that this is a government fight that somehow affected the judgment of the second best and the highest. Secretary of state. I asked this because I don't feel that this mystery is entirely solved. That's what I'd like to say. A senator on other things that are the other ideas of strengthening and delivering additional assignments to her. I'm asking why. A senator would support the way that also appeared in the report of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u64	This was made clear in the work of the Commission to the highest level. A minister seriously misunderstood one of the so - called FAC comments. She pointed out that the arrangement for developing cooperation was different in this country than in any other country. This led him to interpret it so that the committee was suggesting that it be changed. But what did the committee mean as revealed within the foreign committee? Yes, when the surveyors began to study the budget, it was found that 60% of what was supposed to be done on two-sided projects on Iceland is granted by the State Department of State, although the law says they should pass through the ISSI. In other words, we have not completely legalized this. Therefore, I believe that it would be most successful to take all the two - side assignments from the Ministry of State to the TSSI now and thus strengthen it. [[The president calls.]] Then consider Davíð, the Oddsson of Odd. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir won't follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u65	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who conducted this fine talk and reviewed the case well about the consequences of this change, if it happens, would especially be considered by the Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir of the administrative director who has taken care of the issues of transparency and corruption and has been associated with members in that area. Sigurbjörg came to the Commission at the last council on the matter, and during an interview at the hour, she said that with the transfer of a Developmental Agency under the Ministry of State, she warned that all the local taxpayers to international development cooperation will land in one pot within the Ministry. This adds to the possibility of a minister for impact in that pot, saying, by permission of the President, that the pot will become a rocking officer to us after that move. This, she asserts, in view of the fact that at all times it is more difficult to observe what is going on within the council than in their subcontinents, for example, to suggest that there is little hearing to make a government decision. Of course, you're right. It's not done. And it refers to the general order that we have. A member of the Parliament has repeatedly made it a subject of our talks on these matters, that it is a much normal arrangement to install projects in outside the Ministry so that the Ministry can follow its surveillance role. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he believes that the transfer of all money to this lawsuit group into a single pot directly under a minister is a real danger. Are we making this system, this pot's murky?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u66	Mr. President. Absolutely. I don't think that what is behind this suggestion is working on anything like that. I'm not going to go to the Ministry or the highest. That's the government's counsel. But the moves scare. We became aware of this on the committee coverage. Visitors came to her meeting both last year and also at this time informing us that similar changes in countries we compare with and provide a large amount of money for development teamwork had come to the position of suspicion that this would be the same as interests. It is absolutely clear that, for example, in our case, the State Department is not only the Ministry of State but also the foreign trade, which is not everywhere at all. As soon as development cooperation is under the same roof as foreign trade, some of the sins of the past may appear to be ghosts of the present. I'm not going to track these things. Hv. A senator knows them. Indeed, there is danger. Another very negative thing about this is that I believe by such transport development development is in a whole different environment. Within the Ministry, transportation duties exist. This means that workers will stop relatively short in each field. They become multiple scholars. They may be two or three years, most four years, in one specific place. Their knowledge may not be as specific. A developing cohesion agency is based on specialized knowledge. That doesn't mean having a gene-based list. The knowledge will be shallower. It will be anointed more diluted than ever before. These changes may be affected by the development team. This was what a great many called attention to, and they expressed a hyperbole toward it. I think people should have listened to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's answer. It is so that after this discussion, not only those who have been present during this assembly but also the discussion that arose. When I sat there at the last council, I still feel very uncertain about the exact logic for the bill. I'm beginning to wonder if this is actually a case that is actually connected with the personal pride of the individual party, the Honourable Minister, he seeks the support of the greater part without any human apparent conviction. I need to express concern about that. I'm gonna ask you what. A senator will agree with this, for it is not a good guide to attack such a tarbolt only to achieve the goal of a person's pride not to be injured. That's not a good guide. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. Senator: Is this the drive?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u68	Mr. President. I think it's clear to say that the answer is yes. I'm what? A senator agrees. I've tried to trace the fact that I'm completely impossible to see any trace of evidence leading up to this change. No one has ever been able to argue that way. Hv. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, who brings this matter to light and gave a story for the opinion of the greater part before, she slided it in three or four sentences. No one has. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator has the right to say, first and foremost, personal pride. V.E.G. The minister presented the matter, being deceived by officials. They now go about quite another way, landing on a hard wall with this matter and many others. It was a personal pride that made this the only case, the first case he presented. There are no other issues, so to speak, except for the EEA, in his plagiar list. I don't think there's anything else that's causing this. That's why I say, in my career, I've never seen such profound cases appear with such little and flubracious support as this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u69	President. I thank you for the opportunity to draw a little out of the former wisdom fountain. Secretary of state. Since I am relatively new to this process, it helps me to know the story very often before the present situation. How did YOU come to be, and what was the situation in the past? What was the reason for the change to the present arrangement? This is likely to have an illuminating effect on why they're leaving this arrangement. It was also noted that the target is now 0.7% of GDP in development. I was just checking the list of projects. There are some development relief projects that are elsewhere, such as the Earth's School, which does not seem to be underneath the TSSI. What will happen to this change?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u70	Mr. President. You're right about what you're doing. A senator's view of history is often a key to understanding at the same time. THEY were founded 34 years ago by a brilliant statesman, a highly proselytized politician. He also enjoys the fact that he was chairman of the advance party. Ólafur, son of Jóhannesson, cleared the way for the TSSI. True, the decision had just been made during the last half of the restoration government. It was the common group that presented the case or fought for it, but it certainly was Ólafur son of Jóhannesson, president of the Annexe and Prime Minister, who set out the first steps and followed them with all their well - known weight. As with other institutions, the development of the European Commission developed. It was probably established because we followed other northern nations regarding development cooperation. There were such institutions. During the last few years, it can be said that this discussion has regularly surfaced. I've reported my experience in this case, which was that I hadn't been in the Ministry for a week when this idea was inserted on a table with a beautiful well - supported report. I knew it. I had been in the council when this same matter had come, as it has now, all the way in and was pushed away from the council. The Parliament did not want this change. It is, of course, very remarkable in the history of this discussion that already the highest. The minister of education of Illugi Gunnarsson led a group of members of the Ministry of State to which Davíð Oddsson, the then foreign minister, was moved to examine this idea completely, to conclude that the two - side development projects that were in the State Department, but all of them, including the many - sided, to the development agency, and to give significant support. That would be a radical change, but not as radical as this, and it should be examined. [[The president calls.]] This is the historical one. This can also be read in official documents contrary to what one senator said earlier. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u71	President. I thank you for the informative review of the history of the TSSI and for the shortness of time, I'm sure it'd take a little longer to cover it well. I mentioned 0.7% of GDP. I was wondering, too, what similar institutions actually have so much money that would not be laying down. Why should these agencies not enter the Ministry? It's natural with a lot of money, but it takes a lot of expertise to do this big business with so much money. I find it obvious to have a special agency for such projects to keep expert knowledge very isolated from political influence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u72	Mr. President. I didn't think it was time to answer a second question. paritaprevir This is the son of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, who was before him last year's answer to the School of Earth. Of course, the same applies to the other three schools, who are also under the heads of the United Nations University. These are all costed by evolution and will continue to exist. They have never been a member of a developing cohesion agency. They have, in a sense, floated between us, and we haven't even achieved it for technical reasons to make them a special joint budget. But they are safe in other respects, but they have also been affected by the cutting down of this government. It has betrayed our commitment to the poorest nations of the world for more than 4 billion since its approval in 2011 by the votes of all members, including the Independence Party and the forward party. In terms of what we're suggesting, we're going to reach 0.7%. There are few nations that can reach it. Cameron, under the lead of conservatives, has been impressed by the British. [[The president calls.]] For example, they put a lot of money on a beautiful vaccination campaign throughout Africa during times of cuts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u73	Mr. President. This government priority is one of the few matters presented during this council. It's a bit interesting, because we're going into November next week, and then there's no Senate hearing. We have very few cases on the agenda from the government. It is clear that the depletion of the Development Agency seems to be one of the main priorities of this government while other matters are being held, such as housing products and matters that you would have thought were to have more priorities in terms of what people in general consider to be important. This is what we in our government stand for as the top priority of the government. In view of the fact that I haven't yet, as shown in my opponent before, I am surprised to say quite a lot about the fact that I have not yet heard enough professional evidence that this change was proposed. In debates at which point. The Foreign Affairs Committee of the Last Parliament, as well as the council hall, presented a very important argument against the proposed change. Now someone might ask, natural: Why is such a great deal of weather made over a change that is primarily about shape and not content? Why are we getting excited about this? It is very important when it comes to the administration that we proselytize, that we proselytize how we build institutions of the administration. There have been many reports and many analyses over the past few years on the best way to have strong, transparent and good government around here. Why it matters. It is important to the public in the country so that they can rely on the administrative institutions. Part of what has been reported in all of these analyses is the need to be funded by the Ministry. It has been held here, e.g. of the highest. Minister, this change will be supported by the Ministry of State. But are we strengthening the Ministry by uniting a profession, which will take place, with a department of the Commission, which has a political role and is to agree with the General Assembly and, on the other hand, to take care of the administration by keeping track of the work? I said it here at the last council, and I repeat now that I believe nothing has changed in the case that has convinced me of anything but that it is most strange that we are going to transfer all the funds to development cooperation into the Ministry and put down the National Institute of Education where there is expertise. The Ministry is full of other laws, as was shown in the matter of the day. paritaprevir Neglects, Össur of Skarphéðinsson, ex-fifth. Foreign Minister, but an institution that operates in a field of trade with transport duties where people go from door to door. There is no expertise that develops in the same profession as in a special profession. I can't see that this is going to be a factor in the role of the Ministry. I'm really worried about what I came into my counter-reguage here and it's that this is going to make the jury more upset. There's a lot of money being transferred into the Ministry. It is unclear how the surveillance of these funds will be conducted. This is where a General's Accounting has been named. We don't always call a state reexamination for regular checkups. It has been said that there will be firewalls in the Ministry to make careful internal Affairs. Do we feel that this is sufficient? Do we feel that it is satisfying to have such a delicate case party that has been very much discussed in many other parts of Europe just because the public has so little perspective on how money is spent, unless it is much better managed to monitor and provide information about it? I would also like to point out that in many places where development research agencies have been placed under the Ministry, this has been done by special measures and even special institutions within the recruitment process. It's not simple at all. Other nations have certainly been addressing the exact same question about surveillance. I want to use this opportunity here and say this caution: I think we're taking a risk by changing an arrangement that I've never heard from anyone. No one has dared speak against this arrangement here in a pita. Everyone says: Evolution is a great organization. We're taking a chance by taking a firm that's good, getting good results, and thinking that we're doing our job well and moving it into the Ministry, and we don't really know why. As it was during the interview that I quoted earlier at the administrative director Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir, she warned that transparency would be reduced and the possibility of a minister at any given time would be more effective because all contributions would land in one pot. It is a legitimate comment from the Directorate of the Management Board that the Ministry is of a different nature than the department's services, and it would be considered ignorant, as it pointed out, if a government reexamination took place at the State Department of State. Do we see it happening? Do we really want to offer that event by putting this sect all the way into the Ministry? I say, don't fix what's not broken. Old wisdom and new. I've really been looking for what's broken. What are we going to do? Why are we making changes in various forms of conflict and risks that we in our government stand for? Why are we doing this? It has been noted that it is important that all speak in one voice and that there is a risk of double pain between the Developmental Cooperation Agency and the Ministry of State because part of the 2-sided development team is going through the Ministry of State and part of the Development Organization. First, the question was asked a good deal about this double act, all this confusion, and what would have been exactly wrong in the relations of the State Department of State and the development of a research agency, which led to a direct conversion to prevent all of this confusion. V.E.G. The minister mentioned confusion here when he gave the case the first time and said it would be reviewed on the committee. We certainly asked questions. What confusion? No one wants to give us any examples of confusion. It is said: There may be opportunities for supporting services, and perhaps there are two people doing something similar. The evidence that we speak directly different international voices has not been sufficiently reasoned in this discussion. I didn't realize that, either in case. Chairman of the State Department or what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's beloved son, who now serves as a member of the committee and who has considered the matter, found that there had been something better defined. So if that's the case, I feel that that that argument applies actually to any institution in which their work field overlaps to some extent. I don't think that's an adequate argument for the case I'd rather call a semi-brambolt. I would also like to point out that neither has there been satisfying answers to the fine reasoning as well. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's quarrelling made it a subject of the above, which was that if we thought that there was some danger of confusion and bickering with the members of the two - side development team, why would it not be rather a way to shift the evolutionary cooperation entirely to the National Institute and have some clear lines where the role of the Ministry was on the other hand and the Agency. This is the famous way that has been taught by Oddsson, son of Oddsson. She tells you something about the power issues that are clearly going on. It's not a power factor at the General Assembly. It's a power factor inside the system. This has been shown in the best assessments on this subject. Davíð Oddsson made this without me directly making him the leader of my life, and now I had nothing else to do, that all of this two - side development team would be brought into the development community. He wrote under its regulations, but it was never carried out. The secretary wrote under regulations, and it was never carried out. What does this tell us about the conflicts behind the scenes? I think there's a good reason why. Generals are wondering why the State Department of State is so eager to make this change without any further argument being offered. I choose to listen to what was once the highest. The minister of state, Össur Skarphéðinsson, in his speech, said that these were suggestions that had been given very often by various ministers, and we should ask ourselves, " What was the driving force behind them? ' Isn't this about taking over some legal group? We senators sit here and try to find some professional reason for this. It is also available, and it presents itself well in the members of my committee party. The EEA's Environment Committee, which suggests that the Agency's work projects, are commended by the European Commission of Development, which states that Iceland's establishment in the category of reporting has the ability to achieve Iceland's objectives of development cooperation and, despite being a small number of countries, would be a success in international comparison when developing cooperation. True, it is also said that arrangements need to be made best. There's not one way to go. This has been shown in the matter of why. The more part - and less - of - part members of the council are not proposed to do so. There is also the ultimate possibility. A minister was determined that this was the way he wanted to go. It was actually the purpose of this tour in the Ministry to reach this particular conclusion without any extensive discussion of this arrangement, without the approval of the council. State Department in advance. It is urgent to believe that a decision was made in advance as to the outcome that was pleasing to the Ministry and that it was set in motion. I find it sad, as I have studied the story, and there are no doubt some here who know it better than I do, in view of the fact that both ministers and members of Congress have worked very hard to make peace with this group in the past. Hv. The head of the State Department said that this was one of the issues that would be very difficult to settle. Certainly, it would have been simpler if we had started with other categories, that the matter had been taken more clearly from the beginning, that it would have been easier to get some reconciliation about the most suitable arrangement we would have had, but it was not. We're sitting here with a case that's full of shit. Serious comments have been made on the professional foundation of the case. I've just mentioned a few arguments, i.e. DaAC's assessment that the work of the Development Agency is in the way I have described, the lack of double-work and confusion, a warning that it will not necessarily be mixed together to the implementation of development cooperation with other foreign groups such as foreign exchanges, that it reduces transparency, that it reduces the level of transparency necessary to settle the state of the problem. Why is this particularly important to me? I think it was also in my opponent earlier, and I'd like to explain more, that here we are putting a lot of money that is very small for the public to see how it's being spent. Therefore, it is so important that the management board around the way these funds are used to be exemplary and information about it is transmitted, as with a substantial exchange of information through their websites, Worldlights, through effective information services to the media, as well as by effective assessments, which I have at least Studying, and I know what to do. Congress members on the State Department have studied, showing us that there is a good job there. Taking off the operation with vague statements of double-work, confusion, and increased coordination of some particular support service, I feel quite risky with this sensitive group of lawsuits, which are also in a state of confusion after the fact that here was passed against the General Assembly, with all votes, except that the plan was adopted with all but one votes at its own time. V.E.G. A minister introduced a new plan here this spring, considerably less sad and ambitious than the previous plan. Then there's the highest. A minister fired her of the highest order. A financial minister who puts up a budget bill that offers even more sad and ambitious goals. Meanwhile, we are watching our neighboring nations, which are about to reach or reach the UN's political goals, even in times of crisis. There are governments on the whole of politics. I can mention Britain, an example of a right government that said: Even if it is a crisis, we will set priorities for developing cooperation. But we went the other way, i.e. the current government chose to go the other way. Of course, it will make these matters even more upset that they too are rocking the frames with no clear moisture. Finally, I'd like to say there were no cases. This is stated in the Committee's study of my part of the State Department. In fact, we have no precedent that an institution is really whole and put in a ministry. We have quite a number of examples of being taken out of budgets, and they are put into special business institutions, reasoning that they are involved in projects that are more important in special business institutions. The members of the greater part accepted one such example here in spring; they agreed to a new Education Institute, which included the transfer of projects from the Ministry of Education to that institution. What was the point? The senators of the greater part? It would be very important to have the project carried out and to observe. When I brought this up in 1st. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Councilmen said: "It's just different now. Why is this different now? There's nothing different now. It seems to me that political ambition or personal pride is at the hands of a quest. Of course, that is not a good guide. I hate to say this, but it's not often that this sort of thing comes up here. This is often a case where we disagree completely on ideologies and principles, but we may not be able to comment very much with professional planning. In this case, I think it is quite clear that professional preparation has not been enough. I feel that the objections have not been answered; yet I have tried to listen to them. Of course, this is a matter of formality and the input behind it is then the performance of more of the present part of your donations for development cooperation. I can't see anything else, and I'm going to have my final statement here, but with this evil, the changes in the arrangement and the deliberate intention of trying to prevent Iceland's contributions from becoming a pair of people to other northern countries and European nations and approaching the UN's system of things when it comes to developing cooperation in times where the need has probably never been greater, when it comes to the refugee problem, when it comes to climate problems and otherwise, I feel that this category is completely upset.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u74	A respectable president. I want to thank you first. A senator for a very bad speech and a good interpretation of this. If I understood why. A senator corrects them definitely believe that developing cooperation is better protected within a special institution where it increases transparency and reduces the risk of political intervention. Now I remember the first discussion, and as it were, it is true. One senator says, that the answers are not good enough for us, and we have managed to answer them fairly well. Who thinks what? A senator to really be the point of this matter? I don't see it somehow. I can't quite see what's really happening. I want to know what's wrong. A senator can explain this to me further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u75	Mr. President. This is a bit of a strange thing in that Iceland's Development Research Institute is the only professional agency in the Ministry of State. This is not like a number of other departments that have dozens of professional institutions and need to communicate with them. The difference is that professional institutions have considerable independence. They work according to government policy, but they have a measure of independence in the implementation of that policy. They have a measure of independence in the way they provide information on the implementation of a case that is only different from that of governments, for example, under political regimes. Of course, this will change, for the entire group has really come under political rule. What is behind it? I can't answer it any other way than that it must be an ambition of the highest order. Minister to take over all the legal groups under political regimes, and I just disagree with the highest levels of agreement. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u76	President. It's very interesting as hell. A senator points out that this is the only research agency in the Ministry. I didn't know that before, it's very good to be seen, and especially in view of the fact that one of the Ministry's services is being forced back into the Ministry. Is there a problem with teamwork? Could it be that the Ministry simply does not know how to work with institutions under its control?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u77	Mr. President. Nothing's been done -- not at work already. The Foreign Affairs Committee last year and not in their case at all. Councilmen now on the committee - about the mention of working together difficulties. There has been reports of a double task, but it has not been further defined for the committee or at least not when I was in it and not in the conferences here. So I view this matter as a matter of bringing the group of lawsuits under political rule. We can, in view of the fact that this is exactly the only service of the Ministry, start carrying some other institutions into this model, and wonder if we would be desirable for various institutions of construction, say in the field of culture, would be united by the Ministry of Education and Culture. While there is certainly a cultural culture office that has various work to do in culture, do we see for ourselves that these institutions would be united with the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u78	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking you. A senator for a good man who shakes a speech in this matter. I must admit, as do many others, that I come from the mountains in this matter and feel quite clear when I have listened to the evidence. Actually, I haven't been very suspicious of it because I'm not a member of a foreign press committee and I have enough on my mind, though. This is what interests me. Among other things, the senator mentioned in the panel of my section that it appears to be a standby policy of state officials in the Ministry of State to receive this party. Apparently, it was brought up to all the Ministers who have been doing this since the turn of the century to receive this into the Ministry. She also mentioned that perhaps the minister in this case would have more political power and all political power for him. Because it comes out here, I'm wondering and I have to ask. A Congressman: Why is this being done? She mentioned that we should ask ourselves, " Why are we doing this? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I find it very difficult to answer that question, as if I believe that it was in my speech. Of course, I wondered. I could take, for example, an institution that is of great importance, the surgeon general, who conducts public health and medical care and has various tasks. Do we remember moving it into the Ministry of Health because there is also a specific check on the current situation, and there are certain public health policies? To prevent double pain, e.g. The Minister's Committee on Public Health and National Medical Affairs, why don't we just combine this? I'm just asking myself why. A senator asks why, what kind of course is going on at the highest level. Government to this established arrangement. [[Upwards: None.]] To tell you the truth, it looks like a kaos.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u80	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I also wondered, " What is the course in this matter?'Like so many others even. The ASI reviews that if development cooperation is to be taken to one hand so that it becomes entirely responsible for the State Department of State, the professional factor will be lost. And this is also shown in ASI's review, by permission of presidents: It is risked that the diplomatic focus is beginning to blend into the developing cohesion, i.e. that contributions will guide them for their own interests, not for the interests of the poor alone. Counts 'em out. A senator that when this arrangement is established, is there a danger that the interests of the poor will be put to rest?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u81	Mr. President. I'm hoping that there is no danger, but the danger is that the public will be much less informed about the role of Iceland in developing cooperation and thus have much less opportunities to observe that the interests of the poor are not being served. That, of course, is what has been pointed out. Among other things, I witnessed to SigurbjörgerSigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir, who said that once foreign exchanges, development cooperation, and everything under one political regime, you would be naturally concerned that it might be an unfortunate combination. There is no expert, I studied a Dutch report in which similar changes in the Netherlands were precisely evaluated and the exact warning was given. There was nothing to be done with that report anymore in the Netherlands, but it contained exactly the same warning, so I now recommend that I do so. Councilmen will know it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u82	President. I see in the text of the bill on the subject discussed here, by permission of a president: In accordance with the bill, the Agency's project will be transferred from the agency to the Ministry and the Agency will be submitted. This transition is made by workers from DSSI to the Ministry, which is accompanied by the inevitable changes in the daily activities of all who work in development cooperation at the Ministry. - And here's the importance point: it's not a change in policy, aims or shape in Iceland's development team, cr. in more detail the following issue.How much more so do you want to talk about it? If the Agency is to be put down, transfer all employees into the Ministry and yet not change anything, I don't quite understand how it works. And in particular, it is difficult to understand this with regard to text later in the bill that shows that there will be an enormous change in policy, change in performance, improved overall vision, and various changes. Still, it is still said that policy goals and practices do not change. Hv. Perhaps a senator could explain this to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u83	Mr. President. It's only about the employees as easily as possible. A senator mentioned: There is a very small difference between working within a specialist or a professional agency and within a Ministry of State, such as the Department of State for Transportation. Of course, this will automatically affect the performance of the party. Besides that there is a solution ahead of the Ministry to determine, for example, whether all employees receive comparable jobs and where the Ministry's decision on which jobs would be comparable. Changes in the project will likely be expected. That's what I'm asking myself, for a question. A senator, why are these changes made at the cost of the conflict and the related costs, can we say, if not intended to change policy?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u84	President. That's exactly what I was wondering. Hv. A senator mentioned the Institute of Education, which I know of something; I have experienced only the changes there. In that case, various tasks are being arranged to promote the seminary. They're creating an institution to promote the group of litigators. In this case, an institution is being laid down to promote the sect. I don't know how to promote the group by setting up an institution and by laying down an institution. It's a very strange procedure, which suggests you don't know what to expect in a government government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u85	Mr. President. That's so true of the language, like the oar. paritaprevir Björn the Leví of Gunnarsson points out here that sometimes a black mark is white and white, depending on what each says. This reminds me mostly of the time when I went to my bank office that had been closed by then, and it said, "Dear customer. This branch has now been closed so that we can improve your ministry and invite you to come to the nearest branch office far away. All of this was done to improve my ministry, the customer. The language can be used for various things, especially in order to say something contrary to what turns out to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u86	A respectable president. It has been noted that there is only some kind of morphological change, an innocent morphological transformation. The very few senators who have spoken about the matter - they will always be equally aware of their lack of interest in this matter but still seem to want to drive it through here as they are told to. I think it's a hell of a lot more than some formalization, it's a trade, it's a special field. It's like a road model or a tax examination. It's a real profession and a special field. It's totally incomprehensible to me why men are driving it through here. I don't think there's much respect for this as a subject, and I don't admit that certain methods need to be used when handling these classes. That's what worries me. That's why I didn't want to call it a morphological transformation, but that's exactly what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u87	Mr. President. I think I've talked about a morphological change in my case and I'll take notes. A senator for me. However, I would like to say that morphization can be very important, i.e. She doesn't necessarily have to change shapes. And that's my opinion after I have studied this matter quite carefully behind this transformation, you see, there's no professional argument, and I thank you very much. A senator for the comment. Speaking of morphological transformation must not be the result of subtracting the matter to the point of morphological transformation. These are morphological changes that are not supported by professional logic. Then we will receive members of the body who are working and working here to give the Commission the opportunity to ask us why such changes are being under way except to bring a series of lawsuits requiring professional knowledge and expertise under political control. I disagree completely with the change of direction, although it is hidden by this morphological transformation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u88	A respectable president. It is a morphological transformation that will result in a change of nature. What you are wondering about and why ask the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee: "What if you think of taking the road into the State Department? It's a similar operation. I think people need to be a little party to themselves in what they do, because in this case it's only been done because there's been so much pressure on the State Department. The Ministry has taken on additional standards for long periods of time, especially since this government, which has become the focus of development and projects that seem to be a practical investigation for the Ministry. But this is a very sad conclusion for our approach to evolution and our project in that area, and this is all I see as a possible reason for this. There is no suggestion to include any professional agency in any other agency. This goes against the big picture and the developments that have taken place in the administration and the only reason I can see that the evolution issues exist here is money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u89	Mr. President. It may be right next to you. A senator who plays money and cuts in the last few years, yet I'd like to mention that it's not a new idea, it's not a new one. The State Department's debate has long been to put this agency into its line of work, so I don't think this is the only reason. We have an example to show that it has been a matter of the State Department for a long time to receive this institution. True, it is true. A senator says the Ministry has been cut down, but it is also about the authority of the group. I'm sure those who have served as Ministers sometimes thought it would be a good idea to be able to gain more control over their professions. That may well be so. The very nature of the government is that we have independent institutions, which are important to the public in the country. This could be the result of a lack of confidence in the administrations around the seminary, and this is a very serious consequence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u90	A respectable president. I thank the chairman of the State Department for her report on the case at the beginning of the 2nd. and also spokesmen of the minority of the Committee for the views they have presented here. It must be said that it is, of course, disappointing to see this matter in this court at this point for many reasons. The government, both the government and the council at any given time, is an indistinguishable number of projects, and there is a limited time, limited resources, and a limited position to handle the many things that each time has to be dealt with, especially during times of crisis as we have lived in Iceland. Of course, there is a tremendous need for the government to be successful, to have a government and a body of Congress prior to its projects in the way of taking into account the factors that must be fixed, which are in a way that we are not at peace with them, and to strengthen them but that we can be proud of them and be content with their arrangements. It is now as simple as it is now being said to violate this reasonable procedure with the national administration; it is about to become a well established institution. This is no way to deal with the elements involved in developing cooperation. What is it in the field of development that we need to deal with? To what should the minister of foreign affairs and the head of the State Department be represented in this category even at the end of the term, and is even shorter by the end of the foreign minister's own career? It is, of course, the funds spent on this aspect of ours. This has been so for a long time that our contributions, a rich nation, to the developing community have been shamefully low and have been designed to increase them, reach a similar proportion to these contributions and countries around us, and can be found in the UN target of which we have declared support. Is that what they're doing? No. This isn't the State Department. Her boss, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, or the highest. Minister of the State, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, to work on the adjustment of that factor. However, I do not recall many terms since, among other things, prominent members of the Independence Party took pride in this, I mention men like Geir Haarde and Árni Mathiesenur, who made ambitious plans in cooperation with other categories on how these contributions could be increased. In the financial collapse, they did not achieve natural plans, but that is certainly the task that humans should be working on at the end or at least at the end of the day. well into the latter part of the terms of terms, to increase contributions to the seminary. No, it's not. What, then, can be said of the benefit of this legal group at the council? What has been good at this conference is that it has been one of the few cases in which there has been a cross - political convergence that has been established, with a large political stand on policy agendas and that has been discussed with the conclusions of how best to order these matters, and the classes have had their representatives who have observed the work in the Developmental Institute and came to it. A direct link between the politics and the well - cross - political community. What is being done in this case? Are they taking further positive results in the political work in Iceland? Are they strengthening and strengthening the positive? No, I'm sorry. The solidarity is being split up, the parapolitic work being done here is being ruined. This may not have been surprising from the highest point of view. The minister of the state of Bragi Brangi Sveinsson, that he was moved for some reason to deliver this bill that so many ministers have not wanted to move into the council because they have known it is a bad matter. This may not be a reason to be surprised right now. For the second time, this evil bill was presented by a minister as firm as he had acted on it. But I have to state some disappointments with the President of the Foreign Affairs Committee, why. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, that she should settle the matter here until 2nd. I remember hearing what. In our community, a senator talks a lot and a long time about how important it is to improve politics in the country, improve cooperation and consultation, professional work, emphasize the political conversation, and I don't remember what it is to do with any such phrases I've heard. Chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Birna Kristjánsdóttir, accompany her political career. And now it is tested in the way these views are used in the premeditation of the State Department and must tell the record as it is, that this issue is quickly copied from the Committee and handled by the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee to this level that I am not sure that it is acceptable. At the very least, I am told that it is not possible for senators to meet the committee's meetings on the subject, that this is not access to the three petitions submitted and the case is torn out of the committee, apparently for no reason, because we are still in October only in the entire month of Congress. And even if it was the decision of the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee that it was inevitable to settle the matter eventually in a conflict, it is difficult to understand what motivates the chairman to settle the matter now and not to be asked for further discussion on the committee. Of course, it can be made up of 2nd and 3rd. with a careful discussion by the Committee, when the discussion has taken place in the Hall of Congress. One of the factors also to be concerned is the efforts of the European Commission to ensure that the legislatures, to take over the state's own independent institutions, to increase the power of counsel and authority of the Ministers in their litigators in this way, either to unite organizations into one, where a minister will take care to appoint their new administration of institutions and thus increase political power, or to unite institutions into the Ministry as this is suggested. In our small community, this has been a key factor in avoiding or reducing political corruption in the administration of governments. as far as possible, to have strong independent organizations outside the recommended arm length from the council. We know both theoretical research, as well as many fine examples of the importance of independent organizations in order to ensure professional management and to avoid an abnormal political exchange. Is there reason to be concerned about developing cooperation? In fact, there is even more reason to be concerned about the factors in developing cooperation than with many other forms of government. There's nothing special about it. It is simply internationally recognized that a few of the language groups are just as desperate to prevent all forms of corruption and waste as they are in the media of evolutionary cooperation. Of course, in a few cases it is more important that professional viewpoints lead to money, both in the presence of developing partners, often involve relatively weak administrations themselves, and as a result of being often and solely involved in considerable financial and evolutionary cooperation, in particular in some countries, there is a great deal of cooperation with jobs and businesses and therefore many dangers of subsidies and political corruption. Of course, this has been one of the professional reasons against bringing the jury into the Ministry. I have not heard, neither we have much long and detailed discussion on the subject at the last council nor on the discussion of this council, any arguments, at least That's useful, the other way. I think that it, such as the case and the whole case, indicates that neither this point nor anyone else in itself has been presented with any physical basis for the fact that these changes are to be done, and even so, that they are to have some priority in this series of issues in which so many other urgent tasks are to be carried out. It has also been suggested, and there is, of course, reason to be specific, that there are no professional assessments or professional concerns at the job of a developing European employment agency that calls for changes, in reality, the matter is growing, so that the development of a research agency has not only been able to get a very good reputation for its work in this country but also at international level. So it is only natural to ask, as I asked 1st. about the matter in English, by permission of a respectable president, as men say: 'If it's not bridge, why fix it?' If nothing is wrong, why fix it? Of course, in an organization that has done so well in carrying out its assignments, it must be a powerful reason to turn away from the organization that we now have. That argument has not been presented in this discussion. The case also provides reason to ask whether there is a policy of government and its affairs because, in recent years, the efforts were to unite institutions into the Ministry or to unite institutions into new larger institutions for which the political minister has been able to appoint officers, we have an example of the opposite. The administrative body recently appeared in the Senate hearing and reasoned that in education there was a special reason for setting up a new institution and taking a project out of the Ministry, much smaller than in this matter. I have to say, I have no adequate explanation for how it hangs together by the management team. And as far as I can see, the argument for the second action must be at the same time argument against the other action. Of course, it raises questions about the way the administrative part is in the way he operates the administration procedures. I must finish my speech by expressing sadness at the height. After the discussion that took place during the last assembly, the minister of foreign affairs failed to recognize about this matter. It has been quite fitting in the councilroom that the sponsor of the matter is alone in the council, the highest. Secretary of state. Not much support has been observed elsewhere, and it is sad that the program of the council is arranged so that the interests of one of the members of the council are put ahead of everything else in order to finish it, since no arguments have been made before the case. In fact, it seems that this is merely a case of insistence on the minister's insistence, and it seems to have appealed to the speed paid by the case into the Assembly Hall to the 2nd. I stress that even though the matter has been resolved quickly from the committee, there is good reason to discuss it carefully with 2 Thessalonianss. and even bring it back to you between the 2nd and 3rd. But, of course, a person's questions about the speed of handling of the situation are raised in any way to the declarations of the Independence Party at The Kingdom Radio this morning, that the government and the Ministers in it and who are taking whatever lawsuits are to be expected in the next few months.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u91	A respectable president. I wonder what. A member of the council says that this matter is above the fact that it is being brought forth and that it is followed, as it turns out. This may be explained to some extent by the delinquency of the council, at least in terms of the Supreme Court. A government that a man would now have thought should have done well with its priorities at the council. It is a mystery why not. But one of the things we haven't discussed in this round of conversation are the peacekeeping issues. We talked about them a little last year. Of course, peacekeeping is part of development, but we're worried, me, why. A senator and others, because by laying down the TSSI and moving her assignment to the Ministry of State, there is a risk of more political interference with things that should otherwise be valued professionally. A review of Iceland's Red Cross, which arrived at this council and also at the last council, suggests that the Peace Guard will have special laws, not to have anything that would involve the operation of a peacekeeping law on peacekeeping and not in the laws on developing cooperation. I wondered if there are any dangers involved in having evolutionary cooperation, peacekeeping, and the Ministry of State, as it were, more political involvement in the entire developing community and including peacekeeping. I must admit that I do not know very well myself what the relationship between peacekeeping and developing cohesion is or should be. That is why I am interested in knowing how to predict that this relationship should be connected, especially in dealing with the minister and the political general.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u92	A respectable president. You're right. A senator says about the loss of the government. Sadly, the government does not have many issues, despite the fact that social projects are bad news. Of course, it does tell you how much priority this foreign minister's interests have on the program, that the Independence Party has, for its part, agreed to the continuation of the conversation of the unsatisfactory pigs in concentration camps to be delayed and that this case is stated beyond that. Of course, those here know that it takes a lot for the Independence Party to allow something to happen to a camp ◯ burnt wine. However, in terms of the order of the Peace Guard and the development of the teamwork, I think, basically, the view is that it is the best place for an independent professional organisation to work on the subject. Of course, this does not prevent the minister from being able to influence the operation. Of course, it is the task of the political elected minister to influence the activities of those under him, but it is primarily by legal regulations and regulations, not by the day - to - day administration. It is of great importance to keep close to an arrangement, as is the case with the experienced development of a developing cohesion agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u93	A respectable president. I think if it was customary here, as I've heard of elsewhere, that the program is actually being discussed at the beginning of each day and that at times it would take into account what is going on from day to day, the work here would probably be much more efficient. But I'm sure we could talk very much, very detailed and very long about what could be done here to improve the work at the General Assembly. So much is certain there are many things. But the emphasis on this matter seems strange to me, especially for the reasons that we are facing. A senator mentioned. But it is not as if the development community is perfect as it is, away from this matter. But you would have thought that there was something more urgent to legalize and something more significant in the case, especially that we have not yet reached the goal of contributing to the efforts of 0.7% of the citizens of the nation to assist. The bill, according to one authority, is designed to improve practicality, yet it should not have any effect on government funds. But would you not rather discuss matters that would affect the wealth of the empire, the negative influence on the wealth of the state rather than a positive influence on the party? Somehow, people are always willing to help until they have to pay for it and always to solve the problems as long as it doesn't cost anything. Of course, that is not the case. It takes saving lives, and it's just gonna have to have it. If the High Council were to take the work available, we would be far closer to solving their problems than by taking over the matter that I do not know to be a problem. How can you tell? A senator realizes that we should priorize these issues when it comes to the YES and the development community?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u94	A respectable president. That's right. A senator, of course, is to add to the development process. It is obvious to each person, especially when the situation in world refugees is as if we have seen things so tangible in recent losses. We need to do more, Icelanders. We have the privilege of living here. We enjoy the richness involved, and we need to give up on those who are less fortunate. It's not just about money because we Icelanders are so fortunate to have a variety of knowledge that has helped us to come to the rock - mass of time, over half a century in reality; knowledge in the sea, knowledge in the energy industry, knowledge of health matters, and many other knowledge that we can impart so much more and more to the good for so many, and along the way of good for ourselves. It is, of course, where the emphasis is on being, but not on taking them into a good institution, the European Development Agency, and entering some department of the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u95	A respectable president. It takes quite a powerful and convincing reason to lay down as important and successful as the THRE has proved to be for many years. It has been like a red thread throughout the discussion here and the discussion that has already been asked that the evidence for these fundamental changes in the management of the cases is not. On the contrary, much supports the continuation of the present arrangement. As we read through the Commission opinion of the greater section and try to reduce its objectives and what they should lead to what should be done for the development and support of the group, it says here, by permission of the president: The objective of the bill is to promote increased efficiency and efficiency in the management of Iceland's international development cooperation and to improve the policy of the seminary. Later, says: It is assumed that the change will contribute to the growing effectiveness of Iceland's long - term development work. These objectives of change are not followed by just a few arguments. There are no reasons for the change. So there are all kinds of causes and speculations about what to do with this and why a race is put on at some point in the system to drive this change through. Many ministers have got the case in their hands, and everyone, until now the official, reached the same definitive conclusion, i.e. That it is not for the better. You see, there is just one thing that matters, and developing cooperation is better achieved after a change than before. Although Iceland was the sole submers of other Norwegian nations, and most European nations were likened to donations for developing cohesion as a share of land production, the funds offered to the seminary have been made very well. The result of the Agency's work has been noteworthy. Over the years, many have reported that many things have been done very well and have played well from relatively small levels. Our people in the field have been sharing the expertise of the Icelanders in many areas, as mentioned earlier in the use of resources, fishing, and in many areas where Iceland is located at the front of a nation. Those who read the Agency's regular website, Worldlight, receive very substantial news and positive news about the work being done there. It is systematic and powerful, and in many recent years you have come to appreciate the degree of well - being. There is no conflict, so that I will or know, ever a job and the emphasis of the Agency on this very important subject. Without a doubt, it was one of the highlights of the last terms, and it is of much importance to take, when it was adopted in 2011, the decision to increase the growth rate and reach 0.7% of GDP by 2017. Had it remained, it would have been a great source of joy and joy to all Icelanders. Because even though we had gone through a difficult time and had experienced a lot of fluctuations and perhaps even more than ever before, we are still, and we are going to go on, among the greatest and best - begotten nations in the world, and we have many opportunities to share in the money we spend on it. It's not just about putting extra money to the jury. It's just as important how it's used. I've been keeping a close eye on this - for a few years at the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee, where this matter was of course for a time and discussion - and I've always felt that we've been on the right track in these matters. There have been very powerful individuals who have chosen to lead the group, and they have played particularly well the emphasis we have put on it. How disappointing it is, then, that a group of cases that are widely at peace - people can debate how fast we are going to reach the goal for the proportion of national production and more in the seminary and when the right time is there and how far we should go to reach the goals here referred to in Western nations, but there has never been much difference in spending considerable resources, knowledge, and intelligence to return to our less prosperous nations. The poverty and misery that exist in many places compared with our situation here cannot be compared, and therefore we should be proud of every cent we spend on these matters, and especially the increase in the efforts to reach - and have followed after two years, the worse steps would not have been taken to reduce them dramatically. By the present bill of laying down the Agency without any evidence of it - if in the bill and the committee of more things we're discussing today, there would have been some material and professional reason to change the arrangement, the discussion here would be completely different. If so, we would be discussing whether it would be more important to achieve the possible benefits that would result from the change compared with continuing the existing arrangement. However, since there is no evidence for the change, the discussion in itself is one way. As I mentioned earlier, it has gone as a red thread throughout the discussion that there is no evidence for change. If there's no evidence to lay down a brain institution, and a very important institution in all respects, it must call for many questions. Why break a good deal of peace and create nonsense about a class that matters? All the majority of the public feel that we should contribute to the situation that we can at any time. There are no reasons to reason, there are no reasons why we should change a very good and effective arrangement. The logic that is being drawn is confusing, and a somewhat misleading and misdirected point was very clear to the point in his earlier speech that there was a rift of misunderstandings and nonsense. So it is very uncomfortable if such a situation is run over the council in a nonsense conflict with the smaller parts, and it seems at best to fall into much of the lack of interest. It is a rather striking failure to participate in a discussion that is of great importance; it is of great importance how we carry on developing cooperation. The lack of participation tells a lot of stories. Surely, this is not out of apathy, so it may be possible that at best the land will be supportive of the matter. Why it has been so far if there is so little support for it itself is a mystery, but it really is sad to drive a case this way through the council when there seems to be no support to it. Like what? paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, mentioned earlier, presents a number of issues that are at odds between more things and smaller parts, but the reason for this is still the case. It can be ideological or professional or otherwise, some kind of priorities have led to a disagreement on progress and progress. That's what's so strange about this discussion - when you started reading about it and preparing for a conversation about a group that is clearly a great interest in a number of members of the council that temporarily appoint the management class - that no professional and material arguments are presented in the focus of the discussion so that we can successfully address the potential benefits of the arrangement. This is something that we are talking to ourselves about because there is no evidence for the changes, but the number of reasons is felt to put up with the present arrangement, for it has simply proved to be excellent and really unconcerned. You wonder, though, if there have been differences in the system, conflicts, or differences between the Ministry and the Bureau, but this has not been clear, and it certainly has not been serious. The director of my section and many others have referred to the definitive conclusion that the former minister of foreign affairs, Davíð the son of Oddsson, found that in his day, he is able to see as far as his conclusion was concerned that it was the Agency and the outworking of the affairs to be successful in bringing further work there. There is then evidence to further move the project from the Ministry to the Agency, which is involved in this series of issues. In other words, there are no perplexing reasons why the Agency is laid down. In view of the loss of part, the President's permission says: THESSI has done a good job, newcomers, and fresheries in the Agency's practices, as shown by the Agency's ability to obtain more than 700 billion. K. from foreign institutions to Icelandic projects This is of great importance, and it has often been pointed out that developing cooperation agencies in other countries have noted how well that Icelandic has kept pace. Also, there have been no cases on the subject that no one in the past has ever been put down in whole space and has been assigned to the Ministry. Men have pointed to the establishment of the Institute of Education, which I think, as far as I can see, that was a very reasonable arrangement. According to a report on the National Institute of Education, two other institutions have been united, a study centre and a research centre, and a place to bring to the Agency other and more projects from the Ministry. If so, it would be a large, powerful educational institution that would make the study evaluation, study tools, and other practical features. All the supplies the Ministry does for such work is always improving. They do best when they are able to perform a powerful demonstration and monitoring of their language as much as possible and, of course, to build lawmakers, while innovations, changes, and other things require it at a time. It supports doubts and opposition that the purpose of the present government in developing cooperation has not seemed to be particularly lofty when considering that this large step was taken back in terms of growth. Therefore, there is concern that the work of the Development Agency for years is being further reduced from very successful jobs. The bill and in the articles it says that this is done to prevent overlaps, problems, and bickering in business and management, unnecessary complications, and other factors, but all of which have been driven. Such statements have no right to support the main changes in administrative arrangements, whether in this or otherwise, except that such statements follow convincing reasoning that underscores the fact that it is impossible and that this draws the power and power from the work; that this may have to be adjusted to make us more successful in areas that have been very successful. Many things have gone wrong in Icelandic society over the years, but it remains that we have done especially well in this regard, so we have been noticed. And the other is of no less importance that for this work fine political reconciliation has continued for a long time. Here, as in the Bible itself, men refer to the activities of the former chairman of the Independence Party, Davíð the son of Oddsson, and deeply agree with them, commending the developments that became the leading part of the case. I agree, that was a very good thing. This in particular shows that, fortunately, there has been an excellent agreement on the subject. If this case should be run through the Council in the power of the greater part, in a blundering conflict with the opposition of the government, that's a hell of a step. How unfortunate and a great responsibility it is to break reconciliation into such a delicate and important matter as developing cooperation. These are matters that are very common in the world, and it is very important that you put your arms around them. It is convenient to know that these matters are in spite of all the differences - all the struggles, all the debates in Icelandic society that have been great for many years and that in themselves have not been at the end of - in great peace; as in the most delicate welfare matters, that the privatization of welfare services, the privacy of the education system. It is one of the basics of the welfare community, human and modern well - being society, that it is done very well in evolutionary matters, and that money is given to them as much as possible. In 2011 the then majority of them saw to it that contributions to the seminary could be made rapidly so that Iceland's post and contributions were wasted for development. Sadly, this was reduced. I hope it changes over again and one of the things we should be discussing here is how we can improve our donations and take on the seminary instead of putting him in the bullshit of conflict, just doing so, by arguing about the arrangement and administrations, the power of effective and productive work that people in general have a great deal of respect for. People take note of well - being done, and a great many Icelanders are very proud of how we have handled matters in many developing countries, how we have played our money, how we've spent it, and how much money we can do for a relatively small amount of money in the international context.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u96	A respectable president. Like others who have taken up the matter, there is a reason. A senator says there's a very small reason to accept this bill. As has also been noted in talks and earlier during this conference and in previous councils, there are other projects that will be left behind in the course of development. It may be more likely to mention what many people consider to be a very lofty goal, but I would probably say that Iceland achieves the goal of paying 0.7% of the nation's incomes to develop. In view of the fact that now we can't get close to achieving that goal, I'm getting a little irritated, like many other things that deal with the Honourable Minister with the council, that it was the council that decided to achieve that goal. In 2011, with 46 or 47 votes, it made me remember, against nothing, not even one person sitting by, to reach that goal. Rather than getting closer to that goal, we draw closer to it. When it comes to providing a bill like this and to support support that there is something more practical here, people wonder: Is it appropriate when we fail to achieve even the goal that the Parliament itself has agreed to? Unfortunately, it is no longer surprising. This is the way a government would compromise what is clear to the council and especially to the highest degree. Ministers who were at the last assembly, of course, in a position of government. I wonder what's wrong. A senator sees that the priorities of this series should lie in view of the fact that the bill has been submitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u97	A respectable president. That was a good question. Senator. I mentioned earlier that there has been a great deal of agreement on the seminary and the synopsis that was adopted in June 2011, that I think, was one of the most clear and perhaps the most powerful examples of the reconciliation. It was not as if it were being run through a council in a large part of the bullshit conflict with government opposition to raise the contributions to the seminary so steep and achieve the objective of 0.7% of GDP. It was a pleasure in general at the council. They were delighted. I felt that it was by memorable and happy votes that I had participated in all my years at the council, that the company of this party was set aside in a special way, and that was precisely prior to other things, without anything affecting basic services or contributions for the welfare of Iceland. It is long possible to set priorities in order to find money on such important issues as development teamwork, extremely important matters. What a pleasure it is when governments try to achieve and follow up on their goals by means of a tripolitic agreement and a concierge, as it were! A senator pointed to the issue of the Council itself in a very direct way and set it for the government to achieve this objective, of course in cooperation with those who were then appointed by the government. I believe this bill is going contrary to the agreement and against the aim of promoting the seminary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u98	A respectable president. I can only agree that, according to the same council that I love to agree here, it even lasted to be within ten years of the time that was then 2021, within six years of the day, Iceland should be more than 0.7% of the population's spending. I find this to be a lofty goal, but it was an honorable goal, for it was what the Allied agreed together during the last term. It also shows that economic growth will be higher than when it was predicted that donations will be revised. Now it is obvious that economic growth is greater than what humans must have predicted at that time. I think that must be the end of the economy now. Is that not also a reason to focus on this goal, considering that we have certainly not lived up to our own purpose?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u99	A respectable president. Exactly so, I strongly agree that at that time, careful predictions of economic growth and expansion were still under way, although it was beginning to dawn in a fine time ahead of the recession years ahead. If something was, then we should stand here and discuss, hopefully in harmony and harmony, that the previous election would be carried out and given in. As the senator pointed out, it contained a code of revision, which was given the ball that if it worked better and better than expected, it could be achieved faster goals so that we could rely on pair to other northern nations in donations from GDP to development. These nations have been particularly successful in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u100	President. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned that he had been serving on a foreign matter committee before. I'm new here, and I need to get into this. It's a pretty big, big deal to lay down or contribute to a whole institution. I noticed a text in a paper with the bill that is spoken of, with the permission of a president, and quoted the speech of a foreign - language spokesman: ▪... with the opinion of the Committee on the bill it was recognized that since the representatives of the Development Committee are also involved in a teamwork programme for international development cooperation, it may be difficult to understand precisely between the two groups. As a result, it is spoken of by a president's permission: The report has shown that the concern of the U.S. secretary of state has been well-founded and that in the present system, there are several main factors. The work of the Group and the Development Committee overlaps, and there is uncertainty, but this has not been resolved. It seems that the result is that an entire institution should be laid down. I ask: What is this team of cooperation, and what is the current development committee, which this bill changes only?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u101	A respectable president. After explaining the exact role of the committees and the committee, I'll have men inform them. This is suggested as a basis for the change to take place improper overlap, etc. I think it's exactly the other way, i.e. to further develop projects into the Agency and out of the Ministry. There's a 40/60-percent switch between the Ministry and the Bureau, as indicated, that I think, in the opinion of the minority. All clues have been much more that way. As the Agency has done as well as it has, and in general, it is considered better to move more projects than to reduce or lower the intensity of the Agency and to transfer it into the Ministry. The intention of fixing a small area with a huge sledgehammer, to crush and put it down and move into the Ministry, is completely different and are, as is indicated by the quality and detailed identification of my section as a whole. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson spoke before, no real or real reason for the change. If there is a minor discrepancies in any area, people in the palm of a person are able to solve it and fix it without making such drastic and unnecessary changes as this is the case, changes that seem to be extremely little support here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u102	President. That's a very clear explanation for the problem here, i.e. the work of the Cooperative and Development Committees overlaps, and it has not been resolved. It is obvious that the Agency should be put down and/or united by two factors, the board and the committee rather than to take the Agency, which seems not to have anything to do with this. From time to time. A senator came in only and is a little interesting from the official financial office, with the permission of a president: It is not expected that the integration will lead to changes in the number of employees, and it is not expected to change in housing, but the Ministry's and TSSI co-works are already working closely together and have their dwellings in the same home. Thus, legalization of the bill is not expected to affect the business costs of the group for the first time. It's just a joke.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u103	A respectable president. That was a very good point by which. Senator. I mentioned earlier in my talk that if there are any material or professional reasons for the changes, we could be reasoning them out. If the Ministry had to save money, achieve economy, or change that led to their opinion, and hopefully others too, more money could be given directly to the development community, but you can't. Take it easy. A candidate mentioned earlier was very discouraged, and a good example of fallacy behind the bill, the confusion behind the transition, and the disproportionateity of these important issues in conflict when the lack of interest in change is almost overwhelming in the majority of parts that are not involved in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u104	A respectable president. I want to thank you first. A senator very much for this interesting input. As stated in the Commission opinion and in the bill's report, the purpose is to move this into the Ministry to prevent some overlap in the first place and second, to strengthen the link between developing cooperation with other foreign languages. It is repeated and repeated. When I read both of the committee's opinions and, of course, the paper with the bill, it seemed like there's a double act there. I couldn't see anything else if I just read the report and the committee's opinion. It may be ugly to doubt unless you considered this matter more carefully, but I got a bit flat when I read the committee's opinion of my section, e.g. in whom these arguments are unsatisfactory. What I really wanted to know is if we weren't going back to the past a little by definition of efficiency and efficiency by media direction, since it seems to be the highest. Secretary of state is making a point. What do you think? A senator of that? We're naturally talking about taking an entire organization back into the Ministry, which seems to have never happened before. There's an extra medium control. Isn't that a little strange? Isn't that something we've been trying to avoid?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u105	A respectable president. That was a very good tip for a dog. Senator. First of all, the indecision and inadequacy of the entire argument is behind the issue. The only evidence is a vague argument for some type of double design and overlap, as I pointed to earlier, in the palm of the song, to correct if such a practice was done without planning on the big task of laying down an institution and moving it into the Ministry. Hv. A senator asked if it would go against all the developments of the last few years in the administration and a sensible outside of government projects to increase central management in the budget to better control the group. It is clear to the point that there is a huge step in the opposite direction by increasing some form of central management in the Ministry around the jury. As we have seen earlier in our discussion, transparency becomes less and possibly less difficult to monitor in developing cooperation than in today's. It's quite open and useful at the YES. It has been very good and easy to keep track of it, and the Agency is very open and very powerful to introduce its good work. I firmly agree with this, and answer the question unquestionably, that this proposal for increased media control and the unprecedented annihilation of putting down an institution and moving it into the Ministry is contrary to the trend.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u106	President. Then I have to ask, " What is it that I want to know? ' A senator believes that when it comes to creating an environment, we are suddenly in a phase of central control. If this is not a matter of the institution in itself but of the Agency's material, would it not be possible to have a perturbably discussion about its working area? Wouldn't it be something we could handle at some meetings and try to find out if there's a problem with this institution? She seems to be doing a good job. She seems to do everything she has to do and should do according to a defined function. It does not seem to cover the subject or include some special cost. This organisation appears to be suitable for this specific activity. I was wondering if there's a bigger trend, that we're moving agencies back into the Ministry. This is a problem with everything that has been happening over the last 203/430 years in an effort to reduce central management and increase power distribution by promoting environmental management and widespread decision making. Is this not an ideal opportunity for special - trained people to make decisions in their field? Is this not an ideal opportunity to give well - educated people a special job and special responsibilities? Is there a problem with that? What's behind it? Is this what we're doing changing Iceland's founded environment in general? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u107	A respectable president. That's the big deal. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, was asked repeatedly who she believed the purpose of the change was, and we have, in effect, been in our discussion here today, looking for light to the problem. It's just that no one's ever found any problem in the Agency's business unless there's no vague indication of overlap and doubleness that can be proved beyond evidence and is in itself no evidence for these changes. So the problem is not there. The current framework of development cooperation is excellent, and all evidence shows that the Agency's activities are at best so that it should further promote the Agency and bring it more work than putting it down for no reason and moving it into the Ministry for increased media management.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-21-24.u108	The president of the Generalis has received the following letter: We sign a proposal, with the reference at 1.mg. 77st. Conventional contracts, that the first item at the next meeting will be the following: 1st Unprepared queries. 2. Special discussion, please. Twelve o'clock, the insurance policy and the government's policy declaration. A verbal vendetta will be Sigríður Ingadóttir and will be answered as Prime Minister. 3. International Development Teams of Iceland (increase in efficiency, organization, development community in Iceland), etc. (Etanrrah.; 91st case, J. 91, needle. 285 and 299. - Frah. 2nd. 4. Visitors' cashiers, special discussion at the end of the week. One-thirty-thirty-thirty. Adolescent Agmagnifice of Jónasson, to answer to industrial and commercial ministers. 5. An analysis of the joint benefits of a Western holiday contract and a Western business council, a soup. How Would You Answer? 75. - Previous round. 6th Long-term transport and infrastructure policy in Western America, so-called. How Would You Answer? 76. - Previous round. 7. Grouping with Greenland and Faeroe Islands on fishing, soll. How Would You Answer? 77. - Previous round. We wish, sir, a respectable president, to suggest that this proposal be in accordance with the obligatory report of engagement held at the General Assembly. This is what you're gonna sign. Councilmen Inst. Hjörvar, Shoggis Svavarsdóttir, Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson son of Gjön, and Páll Valur Björnsson. In line with the preceding quoted article, page 77. Parliamentary proposals, this proposal will be taken for release and votes at the beginning of a meeting tomorrow.
