ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u1	V.E.G. President. I've thought to make up the box of Reykjavík's airport, the homeland flight center in Iceland, and the projects that run in the Vals area, unfortunately, I'd like to say because I feel that it's an approach to a sort of peace agreement that was made that everyone would stick to themselves while the Committee of Rackham was working. All classes have their own history in this case, and within each category, there is a collection of excerpts about domestic flights. That's how it'll stay. This is not a political issue. I told you, every class has its own story. That is why I want to study this story only to get it discussed and clear. During the majority of independence and forwardees, a share of the Vals sector, the ganging region, was accepted by 2006/007. During the time of Sturla Böðvarsson, the secretary of transportation and the city's mayor, Steinunn Valdís Óskarsdóttir, a signed agreement that spoke of a transportation center in the south near the Strategle Tower, where the end of a so - called emergency path is. At the same time, aerodynamic, economic, and organizational assessment should be carried out, as the minimum size of the runway and of the operating area could be assessed in terms of the continuation of the course as the center of national flight. Third, Ólafur Magnússon's mayorship was when he worked with the Independence Party, August 20, 2008, signed an agreement with the Knatts Savvy Association Val and Val ehf., I think that's name, of the usefulness of the Obscurial Zone. Then it should also be remembered that October 25th, 2013, the local minister of the interior, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir and Jón Gunnarsson, signed a report on the closure of this circuit. A respectable president. By reviewing it this way, we can see that all of us have their own history. [[The president calls.]] What I'm going to say at the end of the day is that I am very sorry that the government, which is half the owner of the country where the city of Reykjavík is a airport, has not been examined to establish a ban on a project that has begun there while the Committee is working. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u2	A respectable president. A man told me long ago that the only option of having a left hand is that there is peace in the job market. I have often thought of those words over and over again and especially today. Those words were recalled by the cruel tone of a labor leader right before the votes for strike. But what about today? Despite the largest financial growth in Europe and exports, there is no left control, and there is good work to do. Let's start with the fishing road. Most of our primary species are very good. Great, powerful ships are active in spite of the rough times, and the fish industry thrives with technologically advanced fish - industry companies that reach the maximum cost of marine resources, in fact, tax collections. Travel has never been better, and with each passing year, making more currency than the fishing road. The major problem is a number of tourists, if a problem should arise, and the major natural spheres of the country would have to be restricted. Could it be that most of the low - paying jobs are in these articles? If so, we must agree to correct it and make the requirement to be corrected. All of us can agree that we have a salary of less than 300. K. is not to be recognized, especially in the areas that depend on our prosperity. It is not unusual for some to feel that they have fallen behind in the remuneration, but if most people feel that they have fallen behind, I wonder: " Again from whom? Consider one another and focus on increasing the minimum wage in this cycle. I appeal to the medical professions to spare the sick and the elderly the consequences of a long strike. Let us not sacrifice good stability through long conflicts in the workforce.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u3	A respectable president. There is a serious situation in the labour market, as does anyone. The prosecuting officer of the Independence Party came into a symposium yesterday and accused them of working against an equation in the community. He does not seem to have noticed that there is much difference between the demands of individual groups in the ongoing fight. The Service Union has rightly stressed the increase of the lowest salary and there is a cut-off of 300 you. K. no real business in the country that is of any importance that cannot live up to that kind of pay. Other societies, such as BHM, stress the increases in the average income groups behind them. There is also valid evidence. These groups have been burdened by the fall of the crown and rising shapes of this government and the increase in costs of taking over ordinary people. These are the facts that remain. What combines the demands of different groups is the struggle against increasing inequities and the fact that there are certain privileged groups in the community that can measure up perfectly to what is open to all others. In this situation, it is a serious matter when head of the Independence Party, secretary of finance, who deals with agreements with members of the State on behalf of the Icelandic nation, comes into the General Assembly and threatens men to take what they have done or to compromise the rights of strike if they are acting in the way that they have done. It's very strange to hear a financial minister in the middle of a fight talking down the strike rights, the sacred weapon, as he did here in the chair yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u4	V.E.G. President. As well as other member partners of Iceland's Workgroups on strike work ended at midnight. The workers' participation in the Workers Association of Aranesp was around 60%, and the strike was accepted with a significantly greater proportion, 98% of the terms of the participants. The approval of the members of the European Union's staff by a complete eye was about 50% and 95% agreed on strike measures. These figures clearly show the toughness that exists in the labor struggle, and it can be said that reports on government increases, including the U.S. in HB Granda about 33%, in terms of hard pay requirements, and in the fight of the workers. The pay rates of government officials have shown workers that there is considerable scope for the increase in pay within certain companies. The requirement is that space reaches out all the way to those on the floor and creates the value. If news is examined about the strike operation on the Worker's Office of Aranesp website, it will include 116 companies in the region. These include manufacturing and services. This extent of action will have a major and widespread impact on society. This is the coward's struggle for the minimum wage. It is difficult for this group to weigh only 4% of the workers in Iceland today to learn that the scope for their raises is only around 3%. The underpayers of the land cannot be the only group or among the groups responsible for stability. More people must be responsible, as well as company managers and those who have accepted from 333/455% increase in pay. Do they have no responsibility, or what? It would be informative to hear the effect that these increases have on stability. I'd like to hear from the Professional Association about those things. There is little need for warnings when these increases occur. [[The president calls.]] Why is that? Doesn't that count for all groups?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u5	A respectable president. With the approval of the General Assembly last year, in December 2013, on a report on the fixation of a cable to Britain, industrial and commercial ministers received a clear message from the General Assembly. The employment board supplied the report with monotonous opinions and guidance for Ministers to complete the huge work that was already started to assess the pros and defects of the sea cables from Iceland to Britain. The message was very clear. We said: "Bring out the missing information, make the missing practical and environmental observations, have a discussion with an arrangement and become part of the British government so that you can decide whether the project is the matter or not. It is finally the end of the spring convention in 2015. A year and a half have passed. In ordinary companies, under the direction of a strong executive, the postmenopausal job was six to nine months later, but there is no conclusion yet to the highest level. Minister. I wonder why. What is the motive behind the fact that a minister does not make it his priority to see if and how Icelanders can gain up to seven times the price of energy that we are selling to make a fortune today? We're talking about tens of billions of dollars a year extra on government funds if it's true, a respectable president. What on earth does it do to the highest level? A minister isn't at a weekly meeting with the British to explore the scope and basis of contracts? What is it that keeps her? Why isn't the Minister on the way to explore the additive effects of developing the power system in Iceland? These assignments can be done hand in hand. I want to see the results of this work, and the Council needs to make a very clear call for it because a minister is here to carry out what is decided here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u6	A respectable president. There's a time to start a gay education in Hafnarfjörður, and it's a good thing. The reaction Gylfi a son of Ægisson, the highest. A musician, was about to set up a Facebook page to protest these plans, but his page was called the ironic name of the Children's Seat. Inspection of the son of Gylfi, the Ægisson of Ahgi, the chief. A musician, a homosexual, has become a nation - known one of Iceland's most unpopular opinions at this time and right. Despite his complete defeat in the discussion, however, the immediate demand is to report his page as a hate propaganda and thus be closed off. So it can be said that it is a Facebook decision, not ours. Yet, there is good reason to protest such demands. Opinions do not cease because they are forbidden to express them. On the contrary, the only thing a quiet person can convince a community is that people who fight prejudice will not even defend their support of something as likely as gay instruction and sexual freedom and tolerance. A respectable president. Bad opinions must be heard in order to cope with them. By silenced by unpopular views, we close our eyes to the problem and leave it as uninformed as ever. Children of prejudiced people will continue to hear such opinions brought forth at home, even if they are addressed in such areas as Facebook. The difference is that at home you do not hear the response of society. Sexual freedom, gay instruction, and tolerance are stronger causes than would require a demonstration of victory. All the worst enemy of prejudice is open and free discussion. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u7	A respectable president. The head of Isavia sent a letter on December 13, 2013, to the secretary's request that the results be calculated to the functioning of Reykjavík and Cheflavík allotted without a runway 06-24, which has been called the emergency track, were very useful for those who fight before closing the track, while the criteria were not based on legal standards. In the battle of the greater part of Reykjavík, this letter is repeatedly used by the authorities in the city of Reykjavík to justify the intended projections based on the Hostageland area and to remove the airport from the Water mares. In a letter from December 28, 2013, the representatives of the medical service were strongly protested and demanded that there be a risk assessment of this procedure before making a decision regarding the future of the runway. In response to this request, Istavia appointed a committee to make a risk assessment according to a process that has been introduced by Istavia, but in December. Istavia decided to remove all the stakeholders from this committee before her decision was made. At the same time, Istavia purchased a service from a workshop here in the city, and her conclusion became very consistent with what had been presented in the previous recent document. This was then introduced, and the majority of the money in Reykjavík began to be settled on this basis at the Hostage, i.e. Valers set out to take the root of what now appears at the Links, so the evidence has been ignored completely. Last December, a letter was referred to a Grouping Office where the search was made for the Boarding Room to be decided. That has not yet become a reality, a respectable president. It has now been 16 months since the start of this ring around the airport in the Watermelon. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking, what kind of waste is going on, and what kind of government do we live in?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u8	President. Last night at the council, financial and economic ministers reported that he was concerned about the status of a gentleman interview, but the matter was not simple. Two things happen, according to the Minister's opinion, it's a lot of thought how we'd been in it repeatedly during the past few months, that basic health services are taken as a hostage to meet the requirements of human affairs, said financial and economic ministers here yesterday. Last night's state radio news reports on the state chairman of BHM that there is not much interest in meeting his interviewers in the current dress interview. A meeting in the controversies has been terminated, and according to the Chairman of BHM precisely nothing happened, nothing announced the State's eviction has occurred, and there is no time for the next meeting. This adds to the fact that BHM had approved vote - paying strikes at the time of the first State's response to the vote. Then the State refused to meet over the Passover in order to look for a solution before strikes fit. Then a discussion had continued for two months without any proposal for a release from the State. Since the beginning of the strikes, the State has not submitted and is reluctant to meet. BHM wanted to meet for the weekend to try to resolve the issue before they got hit, but the state refused. Then yesterday was the meeting, and again, the state came empty - handed to the meeting. In this light, financial and economic ministers do not really seem to worry much about the strikes. At the very least, his contract board does not seem to be doing anything to stop the work done at the bargaining table. Therefore, it cannot be avoided to wonder whether a financial and economic agreement committee is deliberately delaying debates and thus extending strikes instead of trying to figure out a solution to the issue so that the strikes can be stopped. Is the concern of the secretary of finance, which he declared yesterday, of the strikes of BHMs now empty when most seem to indicate that his commission is delaying the talks and thereby extending the strikes unduly?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u9	A respectable president. I was going to discuss one thing, but after listening to it, I can't speak. Senators of the government's stand-up talk is a matter of discretion. I've only been in this since 1998, and there's been some agreement on it because people want to see solutions --it's all equal agreement on that, on either side of the board, on either side of the board, left or right men in control, that men don't walk in and enter the dress-offs of the Aldulis hall, or the mayor, for example. [[For example: Is that right?]] Can various people here testify to that fact? One thing is absolutely safe, we will not solve a dresser's conversation in this hall. I hope, more dignified President, that we have a chance to back up the people who are working on these matters because there is a lot to do. I wanted to draw attention to Dr. Hólmsteinn Gissurarson Gissurson's article in the Morning Press, where he covers a big deal, the loss of the swellingers, and the conduct of the Icelandic state in the wake of the bank collapse. He named Göt Bank and Gutt Securities. It was estimated that the bank was sold at 300 million dollars, and three months later the value was 2 billion. It was estimated that Securities dropped from $50 million to 100 million in one week. Also referred to Glitnis Bank in Finland, as well as the Heritable Bank and Kakting Singer & Friedlander, who were not bankrupt, and no illegal campaign was carried out, as the British authorities said back then. The loss of the swelling farms is $ 210 billion, but the potential loss for us, the taxpayer, is 60 billion from the FH bank. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. It's not all in advance, but we need to take a good look. Under here are huge interests.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u10	A respectable president. The Watermier airport is still hanging around the conference hall, and it's not really weird. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller made contact between 2006 and today, but took no note that it was in the time of the NYU list that a general election was made to choose the airport away. That may be the first step. But this does not change that, according to Kristján L. Möller's opinion as the one being present, the state has not been able to at least protect its interests and make comments on the main structure or organization with regard to the airport. There, the Kingdom has not done enough good. However, a respectable president was pleased to read in one of the newspapers not at all long ago that the leader of the Valsman ehf, Brynjar Harðarson, made it known that the area of the Hostageers would not be carried out until the Rectum Committee had completed its work. I think that's where that business comes forward to extend an act of reconciliation, I believe it's of the good. Criticism in this or other matters will not bring us anything. On the other hand, the state as well as the city authorities and the Valors ehf. to sit down, when the Rackham Committee is finished, and to finish the conference in Reykjavík, and to be expected to be of more interest than less value.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u11	V.E.G. President. After meeting members of the Northwestern District with the three high school champions in the country area yesterday, it is clear that the changes in the work of the high school law become a major challenge to these schools. It is easy to see how they can fulfill their role in the coming years if a minister's purpose is to be fulfilled. These days, we're going to take a course into high school. New study guides, landmarks, and new requirements for study in all higher schools have been developed according to the claims of the Ministry of Education. As early as the fall of the next fall, college is required to adjust according to three years' study for a student's test, 200 to240 units for 240 units before. Countless questions have arisen in this context. What units are generally taken out? Are we talking about sports? Are we talking about art? Are we talking about reducing the number of choices, or is it free to decide how this is done? What will become a formal and professional education? Is basic schools designed to expand their role, teach more study material, and demand? What, then, will be the effect on basic schools and communities? How does this variety of schools and how do the regional schools come out, which are reason to consider especially with regard to declarations at the highest level. Governments to promote the settlements? Does this level of education, which has been considered one of the most important educational projects? How to become an adult, etc.? I have previously criticized the fact that much work is being done on the top of the roads. A minister, but he runs away when an explanation is sought for the direction and the outlook of the future. I challenge the highest. Education and cultural minister to stop this hero game, and to chase business groups and economic groups, primarily discussing how we can best train the student's education, secure the quality of study and success, feeling well, equal to national services as we have to expand the nation's education levels. That's a job we're supposed to be dealing with. [[The president calls.]] I wish for that discussion to take place here at the council, not by decree from the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u12	A respectable president. From time to time, there is a debate over the salary and terms of the senators and the strength to which we are entitled. Clearly, there is interest in this information, the media interest in digging in the matter. We may be surprised to have received publicity from the media about whether we have anything against informing about the benefits and purchases. A few years ago, a scandal arose in Britain. It turned out that the senators, apparently uncivilized, were in public funds, and then there was a mischievous error. An organization was then established under the British Parliament called Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority. For one thing, this institution is designed to inform us about pay and, in fact, all the expenses paid and entitled by members of the Parliament. I've been thinking about it, and I've been looking at it, and I've kind of developed an opinion. We're here fighting for trust, with all councilmen. As part of the nation, we find that our voters do not have much confidence in the agency we work for. It's not about staff at the Council, it's about us generals. There is nothing anyone can do about it but us. I wondered if we shouldn't follow the example of the British. We don't need to set up a special institution, but if we should not guarantee that all information available for our work in behalf of the Council is on the table. It is not as if we have something to hide here, but the fact is that lack of transparency and inexplicability in this field is designed to raise questions and whether they are justified or not, they undermine trust. I suggest we walk ahead with a good example, let's find out about this, we've got nothing to hide, and, at the same time, we'll increase confidence in this institution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u13	V.E.G. President. The situation at land island is completely unsurpassed. This phrase may be old, but unfortunately, we politicians have not lived up to the expectations and conditions of transportation and from the Western Islands to an acceptable outlook. No timing of reform is available. No solutions are in sight. Meanwhile, society in the Western Islands is bleeding. It's actually kind of lame. Western ears are good workers. People in good faith have set out in investments, to form in tourism, but there are tremendous opportunities, as we all know. For example, last year's farm society built a magnificent eruption collection for a billion openings. It was built on the basis of promises, and it has not been fulfilled. The situation is tragic. Hotels and hostels stand empty. The museums are empty. So I don't talk about normal people who are now trying to have Bar Mitzvahs for their children, perhaps offering 80 people, buying for the food that is very expensive, and it may be 20. People who have booked hours at the doctor's house and cannot make it. You can't attend family parties, sports events, meetings, and other things. This is completely unacceptable. We, the government, must do better. At least six months, we have to keep the Landing Sea open. For example, you wonder if the equipment now used for pumpting is sufficient. We may need to take a closer look at that aspect. Admittedly, though, the matter is very complex and there may have been no simple solution in view of it long ago. A new process of transportation must be developed. The ferry has to be on this schedule, that's just the way it is. We must keep the harbor open, pump the sand, even if it is expensive, and make new squares, along with other items. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u14	A respectable president. Now it's been informed that the unwary words of Captain Pirata, what. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson to the councilmen, was a disgrace to the shame of the Pirates. The charge of these members of the council that the security guard of the Generals used Porta's supporters to use violence when he did vandals at the World Assembly Hall. The senator's reaction was natural, and it shows that communication was done. I think that's what. Senators Birgitta Jónsdóttir and Jón Þór Ólafsson owe members of the Parliament and of all of us at this workplace an apology for this unnecessary and unsurpassed accusation to the senators who dealt lovingly and loyally with their work. I soon got tired of commending the generals for their service and hard work. They all remember the good value of the General office, the service attitude, professionalism and cooperation. A respectable president. I think these words have passed the Councilmen of Pirata.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u15	Madam President. In view of the fact that the minister of education last night was discussing short study, I'd like to discuss it here as before. We have tried to reach his ears at a council to participate in this formal discussion because we do not all agree that it pays to hurry to become an adult and go to the job market, that it is the rule of a good education. The workforce's time is not necessarily controlled, how to measure the effectiveness of society and the future, to calculate what is beneficial and what is not. Social losses can be measured by so many other factors. We haven't taken the discussion about whether we're going to change elementary school. Will the colleges change their demands? No, it's about a little bit of the time to take in an expensive course to meet these needs. Of course, that gives only some opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u16	The president asks members of the council to keep silence in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u17	Madam President. I have not understood either this logic of the Minister's support that the school dropout is reduced by shortening study. I don't think he's given any evidence to do that, he didn't do it last night either. Students in controlled countries that are finishing high school are certainly not all finishing the student's test, that is worth considering. Here we are not going to increase the number of training courses and art, although it is long time or are trying to get companies to train students. We talk about it on days, but it's not done in a real process. The same offer of study is not available in the country, no matter what the minister says. There are fewer school education centers than there are schools. I have previously mentioned the School of Education, which has come together to meet the needs of older groups and students who are wide and wide around the country. [[The president calls.]] It's the highest. Ministers are obliged to arrange for this discussion to be held at council instead of in Castlight. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u18	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 34/144, on the national flag of the Icelanders and the national armor mark, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests that there will be room for access to the Icelandic national flag during the marketing of goods and services, and it is suggested that the flag be used without special permission in the marketing of Icelandic products and services. The law of the law, which is more closely defined in Article 2, defines the word "a·geʹa·sa·kʹ from its origin. " The bill what it means. According to that definition, if produced in a country from a local source, the principle is considered Icelandic. National raw material refers to any non-invented raw material, such as Icelandic agricultural products, European seafood, i.e. 'Environment', 'Environment', 'Environment' and 'Environment', 'Environment' and 'Environment' In addition to the principle, there are three specific rules. First, because of traditional Icelandic food products or products that have a long history of production in this country, second, because of design and third because of software. For standard Icelandic goods and products with long production history in this country, it is suggested to be a product of Icelandic origin produced here in the country for at least 30 years under Icelandic brands, even though it is produced from a large or largely from imported raw materials and to the same value on foods produced according to Icelandic tradition, e.g. two o'clock, a leaf's bread, and so on. In terms of design products, such products are suggested to be derived from Icelandic products, where it is designed for Icelandic products, even when produced from abroad from foreign materials, is not a substance that is similar to a local substance that has the unique origin, characteristics, or characteristics. An example of a substance that would fit here would be the Icelandic wool. Finally, a project is considered to be an Icelandic source if it is written by an Icelandic person. The Icelandic company on the bill refers to individuals and legalizes with Icelandic social security numbers. A respectable president. The views behind the bill are primarily that consumers can, in the form of a product marked by the Icelandic flag, trust that it is actually Icelandic in the sense laid down in the bill. Furthermore, those who post such products and want to express the Icelandic origin of the product clearly, e.g. To get the attention of foreign tourists, to mark it the national flag of the Icelanders. It is reasonable to assume that such markings can play an important role during the marketing period, both at home and abroad. As previously indicated, the marketing of the flag is authorised by the national competent authority based on the following: By 8. The current laws on the flag and the national flag are under investigation due to differences in the proper use of the flag in a criminal manner, but the government is ruled by the Ministry of Presidency. The bill suggests that there will be another way to monitor the use of the flag during marketing of goods and services, as per Section 12. The law. It is suggested that Neytends Labs, which operate according to the Code on Business Monitoring and the launch, be put under observation in this field. Is this option chosen because monitoring in this field would be useful for the current monitoring role of the Agency in other ways. It is important that effective surveillance be done so that only those rightly authorized to use the flag for this purpose. It has to be considered that the Netostry is the best way to maintain such effective monitoring and is suggested to provide the same guidelines for the Agency's monitoring on the terms of the management, management and treatments as well as on the judicial hearings and the judicial hearings of the consumers and in general applicable to the Agency's monitoring procedures, as per the regulations for business and post-marketing surveillance. A respectable president. The bill recommended here is written in the Presidency Department, on the other hand, based on a legislature bill. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and other council members at the 143th and the Council agreed to refer to the government for further consideration, and is a reason to thank. Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and other members of the council who have arrived for that work. When the bill is restored as a management bill, it includes the same changes as the above - listed bill, yet the wording and production have been changed. It may also be noted that the basic warnings on this subject were also submitted to the 141th legislation, 139th legislation, and 138th legislation. At the contract of the bill, there was a review and a request from the Home Office of Internal Affairs, National Parking Services, Industrial Farmers Association, Iceland's National Institute of Secrets, Iceland's National Association, Tourism Association, Professional Society and National Design. From the conclusion of a discussion and comments it is clear that there is a general support among stakeholders to the changes in the environment proposed in the bill. At that time, the improved attitude of the Neytendian Lab is to the increased surveillance function entrusted to her under this bill. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be referred to the management and monitoring committee after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u19	Madam President. Gardeners have stressed that the flag is marked only by products produced within the country and by food cultivated here, such as Icelandic tomatoes, and is marked with the flag. Gardeners have believed that it is vital that the flag - marked product can be traced directly from the farm. However, it is also said to be a product of design in Iceland, even though it is produced abroad. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Is this not to minimize the value of these markings and the importance of gardeners? Will this mean, for example, that Ora-green beans carry the Icelandic flag because the product is produced on land and the raw materials in foreign lands? I want to pray to the highest. Prime Minister, to consider it with me a little bit better, to explain this more clearly to me. I must admit that I missed the first part of my talk at the top. Minister, I apologize for that. V.E.G. A minister may have introduced this emphasis on the garden of gardening. With these suggestions, it seems to me that the value of these markings is being reduced from what is now and that our garden farmers have emphasized. I want a minister's response to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u20	A respectable president. That is exactly what I did in the first part of my speech. A senator asked about. Clearly, special features of design do not change in any position, such as gardeners or markings on their lips. It is clear that such products will not be marked with the Icelandic flag unless they are produced on the land. I traced three special regulations. One of these features is a designist, and it is noted that in the case of Icelandic design, a product designed by an Icelandic source, it can be regarded as Icelandic in the sense of these laws and get meanings and be marked by the Icelandic flag, although it is produced from a foreign source in some respects if similar Icelandic materials are not available. Here I mentioned especially wool. Thus, if a designer invented a new product, for example, some new type of receiver was released from some metal that we wouldn't have here on land, the designer could still mark this product, this Icelandic receiver, whether it was a recordinger in the likeness of a field or someone else sold in tourist shops, as in Icelandic products, even though it was from foreign raw materials.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u21	Madam President. I appreciate your answer. Minister. The highest. Minister just answer me directly: For example, remember Ora beans can carry the Icelandic flag according to this bill, just so I can understand it? Looks like the highest. Ministers find this very funny, but this is still important consumer business and is important for Icelandic production. It's also about the highest scenario. A minister took over the receiver, could he be an Icelandic flag on the front of the opener, even if there was a Made in China? Is that what they think? I still need an explanation, and the committee will, of course, take care of this bill. But I think it's important, and it's what I'm worried about, that this meaning like it's presented here to us and Icelandic production is not for our advantage, but on the contrary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u22	A respectable president. I wasn't laughing at a special interest anyway. A senator and Ora beans, much more to rejoice that we share interest in this fine brand of product, which is actually part of an Icelandic food tradition. Without my intention to pronounce a final sentence here, I would think that Ora beans, when asked for them quite specifically, fell under the so - called 30-year rule I went over earlier, i.e. that it is considered in the United States to be a source produced in this country for at least 30 years under Icelandic brands, even though it is produced from much or all of the imported raw materials. I'd think those Ora beans would just go in there. Of course, in terms of design warnings, it is well - known that world - known designers are identified with certain countries, I mention all this Danish designer as an example, in many cases allowing the products to be produced abroad. Nevertheless, they are viewed as dancing products. But a better example is IKEA. IKEA and its marketing is closely linked to the country of Sweden, and the design is commonly Swedish, although the company has a variety of designers from other countries, including Iceland. But even if the products are produced in some cases, and doubtless in most cases, outside Sweden, they are still considered to be the design of a Swedish company and are identified as such.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u23	A respectable president. You see, this matter is more complicated than it looks. I think it's my sixth year here at the council, and this is at least the fourth time it's spoken for such a bill. I've been in the Committee on This Issue all the time. It has seemed a bit simple when it comes out, but it is not as simple as it has now been. It seems to me that what I've read about this is that the bill has been changed somewhat from the previous council, but then it's a lot in designers, which has become a very strong branch in this country and becomes stronger and we want to encourage them to develop as we can, that as soon as people start to walk and people start to sell a lot of money, they're just so small that they don't produce enough and we don't know how to produce the product. That's why you have to take the product to abroad and have it made there. Then the question arises: Can the product be marked as Icelandic? What is Icelandic wool, and what is foreign wool? All that has to be answered. In Denmark it is so that those who want - and where companies trust - are trusted. Here's where people start talking about the rules and the rules of origin. [[The president calls.]] I just want the Minister to the highest. Let's do this a little bit. [[The president calls.]] Or if... is produced abroad, may it be marked as Icelandic...? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u24	A respectable president. I thought I'd done it quite clearly in my review speech earlier, but it's probably a matter of time before. You're right. One senator said that this matter has been discussed here at the council for some time and was there to consider the definition issues. I believe that it has a more successful, reasonable conclusion supported by clear evidence. For example, as to the design warnings asked about them again, it is true. A senator says that when a backup is popular, such as a design product, it may be difficult to satisfy demand for a small workshop where the product may have been created. Then the manufacturer, the designer, may be able to produce this Icelandic design elsewhere, if raw materials are not needed here on land in such a product. That is why I mentioned the case of the lopin eyes, which is a very clear example because it makes sense that the practice involves that the sweaters are Icelandic if they are made of Icelandic wool. As a result, this rule does not apply to the lopeys, it would not be possible to produce floapeys in China from New Zealand wool and make them as Icelandic sweaters. This command is given only if certain domestic raw materials are not conventional for use in the product just so that the designers can create something new even if the raw materials are not present in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u25	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for using it to spell me and is very pleased with his explanation because it seems to me that there was one point that was very much answered when we discussed the matter during our last council and designed in this country a great thorn in our eyes. I'm happy that if we can do this in this way, because otherwise it could rule out people who would like to use Icelandic, but that's how it seemed, and we'd like to be taught about Iceland, but it wasn't necessarily possible to produce it here. I'm happy for these explanations, and I'm looking forward to dealing with this case one more time on the board of administration and monitoring committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u26	V.E.G. President. We will now discuss a bill to legalize the laws of the National flag of Iceland and its national shield, i.e. for use as product and services as marketed. I'm celebrating a forward bill. The birth has been quite difficult and long-lasting, like the highest. The prime minister went over the past, and bills on the subject have been submitted repeatedly over the years. The above gave the bill for changing these laws on the 143th Council, which was referred to by the government on May 16 of the past. Today, the results of the work that has taken place in the Presidency Department last year show up for further implementation of the bill. The reason for this prolonged birth is, as we have seen, that the matter is very complex. Definitions have been hardheaded, but we now believe that we are at an acceptable conclusion. It's like the highest. The prime minister studied in his speech has had good consultation with stakeholders in the processing of the bill at all levels of the case. In effect, these same parties have been involved in the case since the start of the matter, i.e. Since its first request to the 138th legislation, in fact, something changed. The case has been mentioned more than once, such as the whale. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir came into his speech only, and the controversial stakeholders have repeatedly sent in envelopes. But it's just one of the things that need a long period of pregnancy, that's just the way it is. The main change from current law is free to use the Icelandic flag for goods and services without special permission. The purpose is to simplify the principle and make Icelandic production more visible and more clear from modern times. The current law is from 1998, but the purpose of that law was to clear up a license to use the flag, making it the same as it is today. This has long been the goal of humans. However, this was not achieved at the time when the regulations of the law were never commanded. Why was the Regulation not given? Yes, due to a confirmed definition problem. And what is the problem? I would tell about my approach to design products and various types of sweets, such as biscuits, sodas, and those were the most complex parts. It kind of tells itself that vegetables cultivated here in the country, a sea address given to Icelanders, worked and wrapped here, and our fine Icelandic water are defined as production. But what can we say about the Sirius Skull, the Noah Cocon fine, the popular Icelandic Sæmundur like ours, the soda or the coat designed in Iceland, but both products and productions are foreign? Well, then we'll have to work it out. I believe the approach suggested in the forward bill is quite clear and reasonable. For example, the manufacturer of a chain, pancakes, leafbread, and other traditional Icelandic foods might label their production with the Icelandic flag, although the raw is foreign to the source. The same is true of producers of biscuits, konsfs and what has been produced for 30 years or more under Icelandic brands and according to an Icelandic recipe, so the flag could then be on the Noah-konfy box, which I especially welcome. The design standard is defined in the bill by design and brand, i.e. They must be Icelandic, but in some cases the raw may be foreign and production is the same. However, it is assumed that the raw material should not be physically similar to the domestic raw material, which is considered to have special characteristics and characteristics, such as wool. This was the main weakness of the bill set up at 143th. In any case, it was expected that the raw materials would have to be Icelandic. That definition would rule out manufacturers from using the Icelandic flag on their production, such as 66° north, Cintamani, Iglgo and India and more Icelandic companies. The current implementation is much better in my opinion than the first one, and I want it here and now describe my special pleasure with it. Ideas are translated from Iceland if they are produced by the Icelandic parties, i.e. A person or lawyer with an Icelandic social security number. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the impact of the bill on financial expenses will be negligible. The bill assumes that Navigator Room will be monitored in this area, where the project will fit to define its role. As a result, increased pressures on the Agency are being made, particularly in the first place. However, the review of the Ministry of Economic Affairs also shows that the Ministry considers that the Agency can respond to 10% of the Agency's standards as well as to the opinion that it is possible for consumers to expect a temporary increased stress during the first year of the project because of possible indications, inquiry and decisions. This addition, however, will likely not be too great. It should be noted that there will be a ruling authority over a conflict that may arise in the hands of the Ministry of Presidency. Perhaps there are still some weaknesses, but I am convinced that this is a very good start. As far as I'm concerned, we're supposed to do it fast and definitely put new laws on the flag and test it. Experience by itself will then help us to learn what might be necessary to correct. In any case, we are better off with new laws than with already existing ones. The industrial organizations call for clear rules, as well as garden farmers, the Farmers, and especially the private and smaller companies all over town, so I just want to reiterate that I like it. I'm really glad we're here. This has been in the council for years, and I think all people will be able to accept this fine conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u27	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in the laws of Iceland's national flag and national shielding, No. 34/144, with subsequent changes. The bill focuses on the use of the flag in the marketing of goods and services proposed to use the national flag at the launch of goods and without the need to apply for permission. A respectable president. As shown in the history of the highest. Prefecting the introduction of the bill, this issue has often been presented before and mentioned, in 138, 139, and 141th, as well as at 143. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, covered a number of things in the bill following a speech at the highest. Prime Minister. This was shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir at night. The management board had the case on its own, and then there was a problem. a member of the council and now the highest. Minister, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, leading director of the case. As part of the case, I want to use this opportunity to celebrate the progress of the case that now becomes evident in the administrative committee that we deal with. There is also a chance that you yourself will have the highest power. The prime minister gives this matter to our nation's flag. Icelandic producers and professional life have long been called upon to use the national flag to identify the production, to present their products and services. As evidence of this will, in 1998 it was authorized to seek permission from such bridges to the Ministry of Presidency, but despite such provisions in the current law, it has never been tried and under regulations that have never been exposed to the day's office. A respectable president. Although the matter seems to be simple and long after such use, the matter is more complicated than it seems to be at first sight. In spite of the willingness and aim to make room for the use of the national flag, the objective standards to be determined by such regulations have never been established. This was also true when the matter was presented and discussed at the beginning of the discussion. Board of Directors and Control Committee. Not all were in the same position as if a head should comply with such conditions; rather, they agreed on how to manage their criteria or objective quality criteria, how far to limit such use, or whether there should be any limits at all. After much speculation and careful and practical consideration, that decision was made after the 2nd. to direct the case to the government. Here, such as then, is suggested to allow the flag to be used in product or service, in product tag, or on sale, dressing or advertisement if it is required to warn the Icelandic source of the flag and not to be offended by the flag. The use of Icelandic source and for granted contributes to the lack of disrespect for the flag. Then we are in a position to define the source of Icelandic origin. This has been shown in their case why. Councilmen who spoke before, including those who responded to the Supreme Court. Prime Minister: What Icelandic products are not always to be agreed with here. It is difficult to establish a ruling at 1st. The administration and monitoring committee will review the case and the comments requested. We are always in a position to define the source of Icelandic origin, and the origin here is clearly defined as the product being produced on the land and by the source of Icelandic materials. The same applies to products that cover 30 years of production in this country, despite being at the core of the exported materials. The same goes for a product produced in the United States according to Icelandic tradition. Of course, time may be debated in that context. When the original bill was started, a 50 - year - old standard was set out. It seemed too strict and is here for 30 years. I expect most of the industry to be pleased because this step is taken, and especially the producers, but the bill shows that the need for legislation is in the case that the National Institutes of Iceland and the Association of Industrials sent a consultation to the World Council on the last day, at 143th Council, where they concluded the importance of using the flag at the launch of Icelandic production. Of course, reaching this bill is a very significant and important step for Icelandic producers because it is a great simplicity in which producers who meet the defined criteria can use the flag to identify their products, their goods, their markets and sales for that purpose, with an emphasis on Icelandic quality, to increase their sales and income. The simplicity of this includes the fact that only if there are signs to be recorded in a private secret office, the flag needs to be applied for permission to the Navitors lab. A respectable president. Now, for example, we may finally see the Icelandic goods we know in Icelandic agricultural plants and marine products and vegetables, ready to be marketed under the national flag with the image of Icelandic freshness and purity. This will no doubt promote Icelandic products and production as conditional and defined here, both for exporting and sales to tourists passing through the country. As suggested in the bill, consumer clinics who operate by the standard for marketing and business surveillance will be effective in providing observation. In fact, it is important that monitoring is effective and careful to achieve the desired goal of using the flag as recommended, i.e. that the flag will, in fact, strengthen and promote Icelandic production and employment. Some people would like to go further or less depending on incidents when it comes to conditions as well as on the factors involved in the 30-year target or the time of manufacture. There will always be a controversial point, as I once did in my speech. The original bill suggested that half a century be needed. I believe that this time will be discussed further. It is noted in the bill that main stakeholders and stakeholders have been consulted and general support has been given for the changes proposed. It seems to me that this first tour has been successful and has been tried to ensure that the flag is truly used to identify the quality and unique status of Icelandic production, while trying to ensure that the flag is used with due respect and that it will not be used to deceive consumers or to some extent used in an improper way. A respectable president. It is hoped that we will now see changes in accordance with this bill that will enable the Icelandic company to use its flag and facilitate its quality production, a commercial venture for the better. So I look forward to having the case reviewed at the moment. A board of directors and patrols where I'm sitting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u28	Madam President. I'd like to say, in spite of the discretion of this case, I think it's a bit of a peculiar priorities at this time that this is the case as the highest priority. The prime minister puts so much emphasis on entering the council for discussion. Of course, there are different priorities for members of Parliaments and stewards as to what the acustics are and what are not. This does not change the fact that the flag of Iceland's national flag and national armor mark, the use of the flag at the launch of product and service, is of the good despite the fact that the committee's resources need to be explained a little more clearly to the things discussed before so that they don't weave for people, they need to interpret what is presented so that everyone can understand it in the highest order. A minister was trying to explain to members of the council earlier. I have no reason to believe that the bill will succeed. We must agree that we want the Icelandic producers to have this opportunity to present their product, but of course, definitions are important. When I was reading the bill yesterday, I admit that I felt, as if perhaps those senators who spoke before were a little confused about exactly what was meant. I thought Icelandic had become a little foreign and vice versa. I think there's a bit of work to be done to explain. But there's been a change from the initials that have been submitted so far, and I think they're improving. The time mentioned just before, the years ago, whether or not there has to be a longer or shorter time on the market to be considered Icelandic and when we think something is traditional, and that is, of course, a lot of thought. The number of rivers is nice to aim at, but I join the critics of the year, I think it's a bit narrowly limited to 50 years. Now I don't know the discussion that took place on a board of administration and monitoring committee because of that. A senator who spoke before me thought there might be some stumbling block on the subject, i.e. that some would like to lower this threshold. Of course, we've been discussing this subject quite throughout the years, e.g. Food origin. For a time, it was possible to buy here in the store washed vegetables from the Netherlands marked by the Icelandic flag. Of course, this was changed because, first of all, nature was not Icelandic, but people thought they were buying Icelandic products. We are under close supervision for the appearance of all of these things. I know big people are making their designs abroad because workers in Iceland are said to be so expensive, that's why they have to produce the products abroad, it won't be marketed if they were to be produced within the country. I wonder, and I don't necessarily agree with the approach that there is enough basis to be warned that the design such a thing takes place here in the country, but in other ways everything else goes abroad, and the product is brought back here as Icelandic. But the market here may be so small that we cannot tolerate it otherwise. Whether the wool is modern or Icelandic, I don't know if I can watch whether it is, I don't know how it enters into the land, because wool was taken as an example here. At least I think there's a lot we have to watch out for in this. This is important, of course, to the tourism industry that foreign tourists are seeking Icelandic goods and especially if they can connect them to the location or people where they are, it is very important. Similarly, it is important for people to walk to the foreign - language products marked by the Icelandic flag. It can help us in an export and it has been done, and it has been given an exception that I think mattered. I remember discussing this case the last time you talked. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and thought of products that would be difficult to define, I remember that she even mentioned. malt and oranges, they'd be imported goods, but would be a national tradition in Iceland and produced here at home, though all the raw ingredients were imported. But I think it matters to the Icelandic producers, but I pay attention to a warning that really is, in fact, the product that is produced abroad, gets an Icelandic stamp. I don't know if I would think such products are Icelandic, although we can say: "The design is Icelandic, but it certainly isn't. What is it like in other lands? I ask myself. We've been very stiff with the flag, and I don't know if other nations have been so stiff about using their national flags as we have been or whether it's everywhere so that producers can use their national flag. It also matters, but of course, we are an island, and we move in amazingly, and we are small, so it has a certain effect too. You can talk to some approach in the bill because I think it's a good idea to be the designer, producer, and others, but then we may have to agree on the approach. If we want to define food in one way, where have we come from? I think we need to approach the matter in a reasonable way, i.e. that those with value sit at the same table. I'm not entirely convinced that this is the way the matter looks today, but of course, I trust the committee will do well in its discussion. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I think it's interesting and that we're supposed to increase the use of the flag, especially the Icelandic agricultural products and the Icelandic design. It is certainly important to define design, as I recall it, in the reviews of the subject, that this definition is not confused and people are aware of what it is talking about, not all of it. But I'm going to make this work in the first pass, and I think the discussion has been interesting to what has come up with.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u29	A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, we discuss a bill to correct a law about the flag of Iceland's national flag and national shielding. I have to say, as it is, I find this very interesting. So I'll start only with what may not be related to the subject of the bill, and I'll say that it's my personal opinion that we should use the Icelandic flag in a much greater way and clear the laws and rules about it. For example, when you travel abroad, you see that national flags are far more useful than others. There's a lot more authority to flaunt them, including... At night and night, and the like. I will see much greater rules, and that the flag shall be used beyond, and for other reasons. I am absolutely convinced that the pride of Icelanders towards the flag will grow if the rules are clear. I'm very proud of the Icelandic flag. I think it's beautiful, and I'd like to see it used more in this country than it's done. So I want to encourage it, whether it's at the top. Prime Ministers, or other ministers, in order to make a special examination and to encourage the committee to consider this also in the progress of the matter. This is in harmony with the case, but as we have seen, it has been quite longer during the coming of the council. I remember that my first year at Congress was a bill on this matter from the time it was the highest. Prime Minister, and since then, it has been presented as a matter of Congress of the present state. Sister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir. The Silja Gunnarsdóttir and others and now of the highest. Prime Minister. I welcome the very content of the matter because I very closely follow the greater use of the flag. The bill also addresses the use of Icelandic design and flagmarks, provided it is Icelandic design. Still, there is much to consider. The discussion has made some speculations that I think the committee will probably look at because we have to have a bit of rigid rules about what to mean as Icelandic design or Icelandic product. The bill makes a very good attempt to define and sort it, the product must be produced in the country, had a very long story, or was designed to be an Icelandic designer, which can be applied specifically for the use of brands. You can think of one thing that has been quite a factor in the discussion in recent years, and that is the Icelandic loapey. Companies have been at the point where they've been created lopeys to form in China or Turkey or I don't know where, and I don't know where, and I'm selling them and talking about them as Icelandic lopeys. I encourage the committee to go down on this bill and wonder about the rest of these things, such as If Icelandic lopeysa, because they are all Icelandic and designed to be Icelandic, they are produced from Icelandic wool abroad. How about some Icelandic lopeys made from foreign wool in Iceland? What if Icelandic lopeysa is produced from foreign wool abroad? The committee needs to ask themselves questions and how to feed the problem. There's already been a lot in the discussion, and I just want to say that I'm very involved. I encourage the committee to address the matter in a rapid and effective manner. It is hoped that this spring council will be legal, for as we have seen, there are many stakeholders in both food production and industry that have called upon to mark the Icelandic flag. The flag may be used, but its standards must be rigid so that they are not abused.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u30	Madam President. I've been listening to this discussion. It's interesting. Of course, I do not object that there are rules regarding the use of the Icelandic flag to the extent that people want to allow its use for the purpose that is mainly below. But I don't agree with the last speaker about being a special amateur to increase his use and carry a flag day and night through a valley and a hill and anything. Then I think there's a little bit of a loss, and maybe I'm a little burnt because I feel like in some unnamed countries, I'm going to be polite not to mention any names, this is gone into total nonsense, and when the flag is everywhere, all over everything and used, it seems, completely random. I also believe that a person needs to show due respect for this sign to the extent that he wants to use it, although some bandages, or symbols, or some kind of standard do not automatically win respect or make a person more noble or interesting than he really is. Of course, what matters is that Iceland is a good country and good for its own. The flag such as that does not change it if it is a link. In other words, I've been more of a member of the hospice men. For example, I did not support the banning flag here into the Hall of Congress. I don't think it's changed anything that he's going down here, to be honest. I think the Icelandic flag is the most beautiful when it is used in appropriate places and flaps on a pole in the beautiful weather at the time of opportunity and grounds that have been basically in the law for decades. Second, if you want to take the flag in general at the manufacture of your products or ideals, you need to consider its value, and it will not go out of hand; that they can trust what the flag is supposed to represent, there is some such Icelandic connection with the phenomenon that it stands under the name and the more it would be generally used. Likely, the value of a product, a product, would be marked with the flag shrink very quickly if there were cases of some sort of cheating; there would be no Icelandic in what had been set in the flag. Then the brand as such or that connection might come deeply into the minds of the common people. The problem is, I think there are two people involved here, which I'm not sure would be wise to try. It is, on the other hand, that many have spoken of using the flag, the flag, or the flag, or the flag, or something like it in real Icelandic production, let's just say that it's almost as good an example as possible of Icelandic products; where the origin and raw materials and production, everything would be in Icelandic hands, and a good example of that is the Icelandic vegetables. Then many people have thought that it would make them absolutely certain that they were buying an Albanian product. The other approach, as I choose to define it, is now possible to use other definitions and disagree with me if they wish - is then the discussion of linking production of goods or services or products with Iceland in the market abroad. This is what many nations do, and it's all right. But there's something else. This does not mean that we want the consumer in this country to be able to trust that he is buying from the shelf an alcoholic product. We're talking about some legitimate connection with Iceland that they think is favorable to using for marketing with their products in foreign lands or for exporting. Is it possible that we should do all this with the flag and make this just a uniform approach? Or might it be wise to think about this a little bifocal? On the one hand, there is some recognition to this purpose - because, no matter what these rules, I think it's important to know, for example, whether the raw materials of a product I am buying are Icelandic. It's not enough for me to know that these beans have been placed in cans for 30 years in Iceland. It's just another thing. Then it's not the Icelandic origin, the Icelandic ingredient, that I would like to be able to trust that I was buying. Now I agree that I think it can have a lot of value for goods, especially in the food field and maybe in other areas, linking it to Iceland in the market abroad. Then you might ask: Would it not have been quite possible to work together to create some common meaning for Iceland, Icelandic production, Icelandic goods, if you like the flags for dinner or something in it - but to some sort of thing: it's Icelandic, it's a good thing, like Danir makes it a firm and strong quality image, freshness, and other things associated with marking goods against Iceland? But I think it's a little different than the original witness I think a lot of Icelanders suggest seeing the flag on an tomatoes pack or something like that. It's quite clear, and all I had to do was listen to the discussion here to see that, despite the best efforts, which I don't doubt is going on this bill, there are many gray areas and a lot of peripheral events and some of them have been discussed here. For example, if this product has been manufactured here for 30 years, although it is produced from much or entirely from imported raw materials, it is the product. I'm more sympathetic about trying to find some ways to get Icelandic groceries and dinner recipes, and tradition because I heard the top of it. If not bread for leaves, the prime minister mentioned it here in two pieces and good. Now I don't know if waffles and pancakes will fit into this club, but I don't think that's because the pancake Icelandic is a very special product, even though it is a source of foreign materials. And what is the difference in the minds of Icelanders in this regard? Does it mean, then, that a brand, name of product, should be considered Icelandic and take on the Icelandic flag just because it has been produced here for 30 years or more than it is completely foreign? The cans and beans are foreign and imported, and there is nothing but the label Icelandic. Is it, then, in some way, that kind of Icelandic because it's been sold for 30 years? It seems that the cans and beans are supposed to be from abroad, the whole thing, and no particular Icelandic recipe in it, I think, is Icelandic. Isn't it a little short for Prince Polo? A princess is very Icelandic to many, but it probably wouldn't fit, that loving lip, but it's not far off to that, is it? A product that has been on the market for decades, many Icelanders, and many of them, and they've been thinking about it, and I'm told that the producers don't have so much to take the slightest color tone on their cover because they know that the Icelanders want it exactly as it always has been. This looks for a little mind, how far are we willing to go on a product that is very small in origin and content in Iceland, just because the brand has reached this position? Then there is a law, which, of course, is natural, that it is now all like this, and permissible as long as the flag is not disrespected, but it is a bit ecstatic. Who's going to be the master of this trade? It is a consumer agency to issue a Regulation and, in fact, it is well understood that there is something unusual in the Minister's bill - that the law is under and the jury belongs to, the handling of the flag and the tag - suddenly decided that another minister should set up a regulations and monitor the case. It may well be that no one is in a better position to take this check than the neighbours Lab, and then it is the minister over it, who has nothing else to do with the case, to set the Regulation. Could not the prime minister himself establish the Regulation, especially in this regard, that the details of the Regulation would be considered disrespectful to the flag? It is likely, then, that it is used in a negative disparaging context, that it is placed on someone so desperate or substantiated that it cannot be considered worthy of the flag, etc. It's all blocked, but I think it's okay to think about it, because it's a little hard to reason about it. And I think that's just fine. This is a matter that should not be hasty. Finally, there's one thing I think it's necessary to look at, and there's a poor subject about it here that seems to me, that I haven't read it entirely in detail. This, of course, is the fact that putting the flag on something does not amount to the validation of the product or meaning in the sense that is recognized and validated, e.g. for European rules there. That's not enough for them. There's nothing for it. Then you go through a whole different process, and you need to show that such a special product is involved; for example, if you plan to obtain a patent or recognition of certain products that are forbidden to be used by others. Let's just take our box for example. Although we'll hit the flag on everything in Iceland, both what is produced to export and what is produced through foreign materials abroad - now I don't know if it will get under this, the box produced for Icelanders in Denmark. The recipe is indeed Icelandic, the process is probably Icelandic, and it is a special amenac product that has existed here for centuries. But so much I think I know that it won't matter if we can get that name and get it accepted so that nobody else could make that product by the name of it. It's a whole different process. This I think man must bear in mind, that men will provide no protection in that sense, or rights in that sense, though gluing the flag to the object. There's something else to do. But it's something that I think we've been way too dull and way too long to take over. Fortunately, it is under movement. I know that for two to three years, at the Ministry of prose and innovation, Iceland has been working on taking up and entering the European system for these purposes, among other things, hopefully, to secure our rights on some special Icelandic brands, which, of course, need to be considered. I don't know how interested individual producers are in marking their goods with the flag, doing nothing of the flag, but I suppose there is a general interest in being able to do this in the world's producers of goods and services or ideals and designs. But I would have liked to see a thorough analysis and logical support from the market people who would be well-respected to consider this with Iceland's brand outlet and its use in the interests of export production, tourism, and so on. I believe men are here in part to mix two things together that don't necessarily work well together. The flag may have been approached in a variety of ways and may have allowed it to be used in a variety of ways, spread out and exported, and again as some form of recognition and recognition, and the meaning of what the Icelandic consumers would like to trust.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u31	V.E.G. President. I just wanted to get back into the discussion, where much has been discussed in Iceland's marketing and use of the national flag. I think it's very important that we find some compromise in this matter. There is a difference between whether we are going to have this freedom that the Icelandic flag is allowed to stay at night or whether it is marked on products that are not Icelandic at all, such as. An Icelander who's been selling Spanish beef, but in the label of the company, you can find the Icelandic flag. If people do not read the package well enough, they might hastily conclude that it is Icelandic beef. At the same time, I think we were quite able to make our flag higher, to use it for other reasons, such as celebrations, town holidays, sports events, etc. Usually we minimize common sense, for people take care of their flag and use it for different purposes. We senators have been given some comments on the use of Icelandic products, i.e. how to define a difference between total production in Iceland and Icelandic designs where foreign materials are exported to Iceland and made for backup and sold under the flag markings of the Icelandic flag. As noted in the case of members of the Parliament here, this is often appropriate for skin and wool. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon spoke earlier about the lack of protection if the flag was to be glued to things, but if we were to watch a new advertisement from Arla's shirt, which advertises the Icelandic article it might give us more weight if it was so that the Icelandic product would have to be on it. In this way we would prevent the misunderstanding that Arla-Sykur was an Icelandic product, produced in Iceland from Icelandic raw substances. We have to hold on to this brand of ours because Iceland is actually a brand. We're good, we're special, we're clean, and even if the good news is a different debate, it's all playing. The use of the flag has a slight impact on the lips, i.e. Products brought in and perhaps washed up from Icelandic water or wrapped only here and sold as Icelandic goods. But Iceland is in exactly the same gear. We're exporting Icelandic lobster soup to Sweden, she's packed there and then sold as, by President's permission, in Sweden to Asia. We agree with the agreements and agreements to protect our special status in farming and other matters. Then we also need the protection of having a sign, and I think the discussion could be one if we had a special signal instead of the people's flag of the Icelanders to mark our products. This is precisely what we need to keep in mind. We'd like to be able to trace our lamb back to the farm, from a field to the stomach, and we'd have to make the same demands on the products produced abroad and move in here and sell it under Icelandic corporate merits. We need to know where they came from and how they were treated abroad. It's not enough just to put songs on the producers and the companies who work here in the country. We need to set exactly the same requirements for the person who uses less expensive workforce, less expensive raw materials, and so on. As for the person who has been told not to misuse the flag and have a certain respect for it, we must not underestimate the thinking of the Icelanders. We are proud of our flag, and this discussion is also a big factor because we want our flag to be a sign of how good good we produce. However, we need to check his use of the product, e.g. on products that are brought to the country, such as wool that is often brought to the land, mixed with other forms of wool, and sold as Icelandic after making goods. This also depends on the competitive foundation for an enterprise. Those who produce a completely pure Icelandic product produced from national materials within the country, compete with people who produce this much less expensive and are certainly not content with having to comply with all regulations, licences and monitoring. There is not the same requirement for those who carry their products to the country after they have even completed it and then throw on some major, like Icewar or so on the product. I make it clear that this must be highly regarded for the work of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u32	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for the discussion, and first of all, I want to thank you for the fact that this bill has come out. I was one of its partners in my day, and I am so happy that they have gained greater weight by becoming a administrative committee. There's a lot of really good stuff on the bill, and I have to say I don't agree. 4th, including That's the north side. " Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who said that men were in a hurry to this matter. I don't think it's true, because I think it took about 12 years or about one fine senator to fight for the Icelandic flag, not to slip, as the senator once said, but to be in a corner of this council hall. I don't share the gentleman's taste of the Icelandic flag being lost in the Senate Hall. I feel like he's here just like he's supposed to be. There are men who want to hide the Icelandic flag, and they don't like to drag it out of Christmas and Easter. That doesn't seem necessary to me, and I think it's easier for us to take in the experience of other nations in marking their products of the national flag. There, for example, Dan and Austria have achieved remarkable results, and there are no shyness in putting their flags on the products characteristic of their lands. As for products that have earned what we call rights, I don't think it's right to have this meaning, I'd like to have a comment on it too. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask spoke of green beans earlier and aluminium cans. Not many years since we had a doo-doo. True, I don't know if the party was from Straumsvík, but here was the dossy factory, and the question is, should we not mark the rabbarasult, the flag, if it is in a foreign glass coating? This may be the question about the content of the discussion rather than the dressing. I think we should take note, too, of what the Icelandic market has said, but they are achieving what is now the most remarkable success in international times, and that Iceland is a good brand. We're supposed to pay attention to that. Why not connect this good brand, i.e. the name of the country, our flag? Why not? I think it's a good idea to do so, and even though it had been a long time ago. Of course, we have goods that have been produced here, some decades. In fact, we have a consumer product, which, fortunately, is the second hundred, the Icelandic malt, good and good, that gives us a good look and a feeling of refreshment and strength, as we have seen from 1913. I don't know anything more Icelandic than that product, except maybe our agricultural products. We are to identify what truly comes from our soil and from our ideas. You can also guess that the Icelandic chocolate, chocolate products, has a very special taste if you compare it with British or Swiss chocolate. Our chocolate is unique, and of course we should take advantage of it; we should mark it. So I mentioned one more product, it was remarkable to hear from the presidents of Algiel's son, Algli, that it is a very growing export of Icelandic beer. In the United States, when I remember correctly, Icelandic beer won sales in Disney World, U.S.A. It was observed in the same interview with the Allegators that the increase in exports of Icelandic alcohol is also increasing. I think I said that in this sermon in the past, if it's good, it's not just fat meat and butter. Icelandic foods are also the Icelandic water and products from the water, such as the ale, etc. We're supposed to take advantage of ourselves without a hiccup. So I'm very glad that this bill is on the show, and I encourage it to pass through the council, so we can match the name of the Icelandic flag.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u33	Mr. President. I would like to say that I encourage those interested in, who are certainly not many, to examine my thoughts on this matter here to read what I said in my speech rather than to listen to the wording of a friend. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. I agree with that, and I said in my speech that I think Iceland and a relationship with Iceland is a very effective method of marketing, and there's a lot to it. I think, especially in food fields, there's a general feeling abroad that we're standing there for fresh, for the quality, for our unmoved nature, and many know that there's an abundance of clean water, etc. Iceland has received a lot of attention and presentation in recent years abroad, which, in a considerable way, is positive, not in all respects, but some now feel that the market is better than nothing. Iceland has indeed, I think, research, never been so high on the map, it has never been as much knowledge or consciousness as it is today in Iceland. Then we live in an age of information and all that. This is especially evident in research within the tourism service that shows that Iceland has never been so prominent in the arts of land that people would like to attend. It is an adventureful change over about ten years in terms of how many refer to Iceland as an interesting place that people would like to attend and even have plans to attend. But this is Iceland. That's not the Icelandic flag. I think there's a great overestimation going on here, that the Icelandic flag automatically means this, that a foreign connection is that as soon as people see the Icelandic flag, they think Iceland, Geysar, beautiful natural, clean fish. It's not like that. If a picture of the Icelandic flag was shown on the other hand and Björk on the other hand and the people in New York or Paris asked if it was what or what it was and the other one would remember ten times more benda to the Björk than the Icelandic flag. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u34	V.E.G. President. An elder is absolutely right about what he is doing. I'm sure there are ten times as many people in New York who know Björk Guðmundsdóttir than the Icelandic flag, simply because of the reason I've said something earlier, we're hiding the Icelandic flag all the time. We don't even cook him on our birthday, like our cousins Dan's do, and they're not known about nationalism. We do not mean our farms with it yet. This makes Sweden, in every store in Sweden, the Swedes mean their meat products and agricultural products of the Swedish flag, and they advertise in all the booklets distributed in Swedish homes that they are selling Swedish meat instead of something else. They are not known national rock. Of course, it is true. A senator says that marketing takes time. Therefore, we need to match the Icelandic flag with what happens here so that in the stream of time it will be so that when one sees the Icelandic flag, it will come to mind the quality and natural excitement of a country, for that is indeed true. A senator says that today Iceland is the country most people want to visit. You can hardly check The Guardian or enter the BBC homepage without Iceland being the location of either the month or one of the best ten countries to visit Christmas, etc. Thanks to everything else that's good on the market. That is why we should add what is rightfully available, and it is obvious that we use the Icelandic flag in a tasteful and upbuilding way to be a symbol of what is good, purity, freshness, and all the best in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u35	Mr. President. I hope that Swedish meat was then Swedish at the Swedes and is in general. [[Up front.]] I've been very interested in making Iceland a strong brand, and I've dealt with it at different times and in different directions. I've participated in discussions in the North countries on whether the North countries could be united into stronger brands, e.g. on distant markets, Asian markets, etc, where each country may have a limited body size, and there is considerable cooperation in these materials. People have been working to promote Norwegian and Norwegian culture together, and they are speaking in an even larger context. For one thing, I think it's important to work on Iceland as a good brand. What I allow myself to draw attention to here and to my opinion, so they do it with what they want, is that people do not overvalue the flag in this context and that there are many other ways and other connections possible, perhaps to include it, as Danir very freely does. They are not necessarily hammering the flag, but they connect it, using it when they market their brilliant design, food production, or so forth. As for Iceland, it's interesting, and the demand for tourism is a good market, thanks to part of it, but I think it's mainly due to the fact that it's just been more successful in the world, that there are others now, thanks to it. The information technology that would flow around and people can look at images, etc., what's really interesting about themselves, Iceland. It's not the marketing or package, it's the real product that's behind it. It's always the way it works. [[The president calls.]] Eventually, it will always be the quality of the one behind the flag, which is the key of the matter, not the person himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u36	V.E.G. President. I think underneath we're what we're at. A senator may agree more or less. The Icelandic flag is to be a symbol of all the best we have, whether it is food, service, design, anything. But we've been way too shy, as I said before, and don't leave it, to show the flag, and we're supposed to stop it, that's scary. We are to be proud of the Icelandic flag, as we are proud of the land in which we live. That's why we're supposed to hook him up with all the best we've got, all the best stuff we do, and make him the most valuable brand, in a tasteful and consistent way, as Iceland is becoming, fortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u37	Mr. President. To answer that. Ásmundur Friðriksson, who spoke of the council earlier, I didn't have a chance to do that then, I've had the permission of a president to come here and discuss it at last on a meeting board. It is a good principle that a professional assessment of the rightfulness of violence is under way, so I asked the chairman of the Senate to check on the incident outside, whether it had been justified in using violence at the council guards. We saw a video recording from the Senate's security cameras at a meeting of the prime committee on Monday, and it clearly shows that the senator, he defends his hands, needs to back a little before he releases the man and he hits the ground. I asked to get this security tape, saying that it was made public so that the senator would be exonerated in this regard. Generalis's office says she can't authorize it. I had good and friendly conversations with members of the Parliament, both before and after the meeting of the prime committee. They understood that I was calling out for this and said that they had these security videos that prove it. However, it was not a professional reaction... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I was nothing... [[The president calls.]] There was another... That's what's... unacceptable in remarks, not in the conference hall, but in comments on a news story in the press. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u38	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise the reservations. This bill has been a long time in preparation for the Ministry of Presidency, and at that time various relevant issues have been consulted, especially with the European Union, Reykjavíkurburg, Minja Agency, and others, taking into account their comments and comments. A bill is largely based on the same type of British law since 1990, but comparable laws have been in force for decades in various neighboring countries and probably in most Western countries. This may be said to be closer to the standard in most countries we compare with, and it has proved to be well with, in most places in which we live. The point of the law is the need to clearly recommend a legal authority to protect communities or neighborhoods. Such legislation provides a basis for the certainty of the cultural and artistic value of individual parts of the community, but this can have other positive effects, especially for the inhabitants of these areas, as environmental protection, regardless of the nature of man - made areas, turns around and around, to protect people on the way. We can even see it. In Britain, the quest for such a definition is quite high, since after a neighborhood has been defined, it has led to a significant reduction in the uncertainty of the progress of people's immediate environment and, at the same time, increases the value of real estate, since of course, people want to have a firm basis for confidence and security in their immediate environment. Of course, the legislation contains various laws that involve the protection of the environment, man - made, natural environment, and the laws on cultural culture are discussed. There are also organizational regulations that recommend the obligation to set up a neighborhood protection strategy if it is considered necessary to protect the characteristics of older communities or other cultural memorys without a peaceful description according to cultural law. This approach, however, is consistent with the approach to protection proposed in the bill, i.e. to provide a basis for the overall protection of cultural and artistic areas. Peace has more than merely protected historical communities and often proved to be a small support in such a definition in times of trial. Thus, the projection is intended to make such protection higher than that of being part of the general community planning. It provides a basis for such protection to become more important. The objective of the bill, however, is not to reduce the value of peace information based on cultural laws. It will continue to indicate that individual buildings and workers can come within such reservations. The main subject of the bill is the obligation of a community to evaluate every four years whether within the limit it has such values as preservation, phenotype, and cultural history for making it a place of protection. They are intended to make a suggestion to the Minister, who will decide to make a specific area based on the Minning Agency's review. Does the bill also recommend that local authorities do not assess the law of based values that the Ministers of Iceland can assign the Minja Institute to evaluate the protection value and whether there is reason to propose a proposal for a minister to make a decision to establish a reservation. The development of such reservations ensures protection and preservation based on historical value and puts together to ensure their preservation. In this way it will be forbidden to reduce the preservation of reservations and patents to improve, tear down or remove domestic property in reservations. At that time, public and stakeholders are assured of such decisions by local society, where the bill represents the obligation of rural governments to advertise the proposed activities and public and stakeholders as the right to promote views and comments. At the same time, rural areas will be permitted to have work within the reservations to allow for the protection of the area. To ensure an even greater degree of phenotype and overall protection areas, the bill recommends access, including Substantial authorities to agree on further protection of a similar model based on the order of a minister's decision, as well as the action of the permit. This will allow agreements on building houses, space structure and space formation, proportions, structure style, color texture and material selection of houses, as well as the network and natural environment within the reservations. Finally, there is reason to believe that the bill represents the responsibilities of the law that will be considered necessary in the nature of these cases, as it can be expected that in many cases, legal action will be tested in a number of cases rather than that of individuals. V.E.G. President. I have now traced the key elements of the bill, as mentioned earlier, that laws on authority to protect communities or neighborhoods are clearly recommended. I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u39	A respectable president. I think this is a funny bill. The country contains organizational laws that provide a very detailed arrangement for making all kinds of decisions about the structure of an arrangement. Among other things, organizational laws contain a term called neighborhood protection, which stipulates the protection of historical communities. This is done according to theocratic procedures in a democratic way and through a presentation that contains specific factors and so forth. This bill suggests that this aspect of organizational legislation will be taken out of the budget without obvious need, because I don't know that anyone has complained about this arrangement, and made a minister to make a decision. The bill has nothing to do with lawsuits because of a minister's decision or any created thing. There's no democratic presence in the population. It's not required, it's just taken from the environment of planning. I share interest in the highest. Prime Minister, of the protection of historical settlements, and of course not want us to destroy my cultural powers, but I want this case to be in a democratic setting. The bill appears to be written by a minister's perspective, interested in the protection of historical communities. The question, though, is: What if a minister has no interest in protection based? This stipulates that a minister should decide on this when the proposal of a rural government is under his control, even by the government, to decide to protect the community. What happens if a minister doesn't want protection, but the local government wants to protect him? [[The president calls.]] So, what happens according to this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u40	A respectable president. I didn't expect this bill to be substantial. A senator so much, but it doesn't seem that much. However, the self - doubt on which the support is based is unnecessary, for this is a minister's work in the same way that is now done in peace of house, he is responsible for stamping suggestions that usually come from rural areas or in the Miny Institutes. On the other hand, the question arises. Senator: What if a minister does not like to stamp or agree to such proposals by local governments? Then I'll remind you why. A senator is only responsible for protecting areas in accordance with this, but it is here giving the rural communities a compatible device so that they know what is meant anywhere in the country when the neighborhood or region receives such definition. This has proved to be true in all countries where this has been introduced and has been particularly sought for by the inhabitants to receive such a definition, such as it is not a case that should make such suspicion necessary. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u41	A respectable president. I'm not going to talk about anything that's special about me being or being suspicious or something like that, I just read this bill and I don't like it. Some community power is being taken. The bill is all about the decision that a minister should decide whether to build - not a house, but a house built, the Quodin, for example - is protected and not to be carried out. This is taken from the democratic environment of the planning laws, and this is taking the right of rural society to determine these objects, and rural society does so according to a process in consultation with the population. A minister does not need to consult with the inhabitants. According to the bill, I hope to the highest. A minister has read properly, a minister can even bypass the local government and ask for a proposal to protect the community. I reiterate the question, what if the inhabitants don't want protection and ministers? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So they're just gonna do...? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that the minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u42	A respectable president. This repeated outburst of anger. The senator seems to be based on a complete misunderstanding. I don't think he studied the bill, at least not read it through when he claims that a minister would bring such a definition to prevent all projects. In particular, this is not about preventing projects, it's about protecting the overall scale, and it already lies on the fact that various organizational laws come on the table of Ministers, not just the Minister who stands here, but the environmental minister. Human authorities have a responsibility to observe that rural governments comply with organizational regulations. Of course, this is true, as is true of other organizational laws. There is no reason to approach this matter in a way that makes you feel suspicious and to portray something completely unusual and new.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u43	A respectable president. This bill is clearly the main source of a declaration of cooperation, or the government's Treaty, which had the tone of the title for a certain konsk machine needle at the top. Prime Minister, choosing what would be most exciting for him to do and even to do. This is it. So I share with him that it is important to be careful about the historical structure and structure of it. I feel, however, that this is a complete time error, as it is in this particular case, in which you are actually choosing what you want most as a prime minister, but perhaps you do not see how the law is exactly now and how it has worked out well to serve the goals mentioned here. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, I myself have served the office of the minister of the organizational affairs as the highest. Prime Minister is not about the comments made on the conduct or contract of the bill from the National Institute of Organization, the Union of Iceland, and the city of Reykjavík, as well as the Minjas Agency of Iceland. This is a very short chapter on how there were several meetings with them, and there a viewpoint was presented that has been sought to take into account this bill's contract. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What were the best comments they made? How did the Ministry of Presidency respond to this comment, how far and what is the main reason for it, since this is indeed the case with society's self - determination rights? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u44	A respectable president. I hope so. A senator doesn't think he has to be opposed to something I would have thought would be very agreeable to her, just because I recommend it here. This is only in harmony with what has been common in the countries around us and given very good results there. I don't agree with the comment that the goals described in the bill were very successful with the existing laws. In recent years, we have seen too many accidents that indicate the opposite. However, in terms of the questions raised about the comments of the players in the processing of the bill, I understand that the concern was mainly focused on the costs of these events and was responded by moving these into other rural planning partners, i.e. the obligation that already rested on them to go through organization every four years, so that the conclusion was not that this should mean a significant increase in cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Ministers to their answers as far as they could go. I'd also like to ask about the factors that are perfectly fit in the current planning laws and in the public charges, because the trend in organizational and environmental legislation over the past few years has been to avoid media control, to increase the authority and influence of the inhabitants themselves. All developments have been involved. This is a matter of Congress, and not the first, from the present government in which it is just being retracted, it is once again mid - power in Iceland, and it is drawing up a pattern very clearly in the subject, which is the tendency to take over. There is something we need to be very careful about. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on charges and access of the public, in accordance with the current organizational laws as well as in accordance with the Árús Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u46	A respectable president. As for the charges, men will continue to have the available resources, but in terms of the arrival or initiative of the public, I believe that this is an important indication in the course of the year. A senator and I have wondered if it would be possible to increase that event from what is suggested in the bill. However, it was viewed as desirable to start by the introduction of the public through the rural communities, so that we can see what the experience will be. At least I agree with what I heard was a point of view. A senator, that as much as the direct introduction of the public would be desirable for the bill to reach its objective, as I could about at the beginning, a respectable president, it has, in particular, been the least common people in every place that has often applied or taken the initiative that their neighborhood, their neighborhood, has received such an definition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u47	A respectable president. I'm glad that there's a matter of planning, and I'm glad that city planning is being done in this hall. On the other hand, I have many viewpoints on this matter. I share interest in the highest. The prime minister of urban planning, and there are a number of special features involved. I welcome efforts to the highest. Prime Ministers, who are now growing up in urban areas, are making civil cultures more populous than ever before. As far as my view is concerned, I'm going to discuss it in my second talk. However, I wondered, as if, like other people who have responded here, it is really necessary to limit these areas of rural society's authority and whether it is rather sobering to think that these laws assume that neighborhood protection laws in current planning will be removed. I'll lead you till 12:00. the bill, but in organizational legislation it is a reliable law that states that a dissociational group should be evaluated for the preservation of a similar model based... I'd like to have the highest point of view. Whether this is necessary, the prime minister in regard to the matter. Then I also wondered that in Section 4. In the bill it is assumed that the local government will continue every four years, after the end of the district election, reevaluate existing reservations. I wondered, " Is this not a perfect circle policy for anyone else to agree that a reservation is meant to be a protection for the future? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u48	A respectable president. I wouldn't want to make too much of it that it was in many ways a special case, for it rests entirely on comparable laws in other countries, laws that in many cases have been in force as I could in the past for decades, and it was a good thing, so here it is that Iceland is being moved in the same place as in this category of events and other countries have been in decades. In many ways, though, we have not given much thought to this language in Iceland. But here's a little bit of an attempt to make things right. With regard to the present neighborhood protection issue, it has not been too often successful, i.e. It hasn't been enough to hold on to it, but the pressure on a project often becomes quite high, I don't talk about once real estate prices have developed in a way that it's doing to make now. This often results in intense pressure on neighborhood protection to disappear in certain places. All too often they have succumbed to such things, and this has resulted in either significant profit for those who have been allowed to go against the neighborhood protection provided and, at the same time, cause considerable damage to those who followed up with the lines of neighborhood protection. This is an increased level of credibility, i.e. They are more sure of the fulfillment of the promises made. The final question, then, of the need to reevaluate all of this every four years. This is simply because it was linked with other community duties to reevaluate organization every four years after the end of the rural election, and I understand that it is reacting to rural indications. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u49	A respectable president. I agree with that with the highest. Prime Minister, that at least in my opinion, has not been properly played from the local authorities to the neighborhood protection. V.E.G. The prime minister points to a similar law in foreign lands. I don't doubt it. However, it would have been informative for Congress, not to mention a later legal explanation, if the report had been referred to and discussed some of the points. Not that, as I say, I don't doubt that it is, I know it abroad from the fact that there are all kinds of laws on neighborhood protection. I take, for example, London's city where private streets or neighborhoods have been protected, but it is not necessarily a government protection, but it is also known that the members of the local council are taking the initiative. That's why I'm asking the highest. Whether it is possible to make some adjustments in the bill that would meet the local democracy or the interests of its inhabitants in certain areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u50	A respectable president. As I mentioned earlier, I believe it would be desirable for people to take the most initiative in these matters themselves. You're right. A senator noted that in Britain it has often been due to the initiative of the inhabitants who have been identified in a definition such as this, such as what is being presented here, that neighborhood or territory has been put into special protection areas, its name, by permission of the president, in English. Many such areas are in London because of the water. A senator mentioned it, and I do not doubt that in many cases the initiative has taken place from the people. Added to this, once such a definition has been granted, the area is naturally desired to be enlarged because its neighbors want to cross the border of the reservation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u51	Mr. President. I want to thank you very much. Prime Minister for his history in this case of the rest of the reservation. The point is of interest because it is designed to strengthen the overall vision when it comes to housekeeping and peacemaking issues. I can agree with the point that it is important that we consider the legal environment of these matters so that an overall vision can be ensured. Only in 2012 did I come to these matters when the cultural law was passed. It seems to me that the bill after passing through that the change in houses over 100 years of age generally fell under the rules of peace, while living at 100 years of age could not be avoided because it had not been particularly peaceful by the Board of Homes. Then, there was a law by all, four laws set up, a zone of housing submitted to the Minja Institute, involved in this bill. The sources in the cultural laws include tools and tools for peace reporting the immediate surroundings of houses or houses, but it seems that the objective of this bill is to look at these issues more widely. Then we come to the manner of planning, which sounds like it. The most concerned members of the council here are. First, I want to say that I agree with the goal that having the necessary tools and equipment is important so that larger than individual houses can be secure. Of course, the objective of neighborhood planning protection has been to view whole - souled and peaceful groups larger than just individual homes or shelters. What I am concerned about dealing with organizational laws is a history of neighborhood protection in planning programs, and it can be said that it is also under consideration in the process of disorganization. 12th degree. Organizational legislation states: If there is a need to protect the characteristics of older cultures or other cultural monuments, natural monuments, natural plants, or vegetation due to historical, natural, or cultural value in the design of a plan of planning, without peace under any other law, to form clusters according to cultural mines - ◯skaskil set in the specific neighborhood protection programme. This, in turn, is reserved in the order of organizational order for disorganization. This may be where we come to what I think is one of the big things in the bill, and I think we need to have a very specific look at it, it's the public's turn to these decisions. In planning laws, surrounding announcements, and everything that falls on them, the public is trying to ensure that they have access to information on these matters and can influence decisions. I'm in no doubt about it as high as I am. According to a minister, the general public is quite interested in using himself for the preservation of houses. And because London has been called London, it's nice to report that I was reading an article about the fact that the London public has just been holding back because real estatemakers and macropolitans are buying out large areas in Soho that are not considered fancy anymore, where it was a great sexual industry in earlier years. They are buying up and going to a great structure that will be built primarily on the grounds of building very expensive apartments for those who have it. The London public would rather be working with the old city picture. So I have no doubt that the public is interested in it. But a career for the public is not guaranteed in the bill, as I understand it, as a result, the principle of neighborhood protection declines. As a result, we are not expected to work according to a defined organizational process. Then we can debate whether we feel that it works well and whether the community's arrival was committed or whether the neighborhood protection provided what we'd wanted to see, I think there's something we can talk about here, but I would have liked to see in the bill clearly defined public access to this process. That's the first thing I'd like to say. I'd also like to discuss the interaction with organizational laws only if neighborhood protection arrangements go away. The regulations are, as I mentioned earlier, that not only are houses, buildings, and buildings and the human environment but they can also be plants, natural plants, and such. If we take as an example the Valley of Saturday, or the Valley of Ellis, to be made up of members of Reykjavík, it is a protection area in a urban area we want to enjoy, not because of the human race, but because of a natural disaster. I'd like to wonder if this doesn't have to look at this, i.e. the natural areas that are specifically mentioned in organizational laws and the interaction with this bill. If this law is really the law about which it is concerned, then we will be avoiding the possibility of peace, such as. The Old Year's Valley? Or will there be some new law code under a minister of the Environment, where he will be at peace with a reservation or will continue to be a neighborhood protection on the roads of his community? I'm not an experienced platoon leader, and I would like an explanation so I can figure out exactly how to play it together. Code four. Of course, the bill raises questions. It shows that if a government does not carry out its duty in accordance with 1 Corinthians 15: 33. mg, which is really what was mentioned here, i.e. that the government should, at the end of the district election, assess whether within the local community's core value is such as maintaining phenotype and cultural history for the reason to propose a proposal for a minister to become a member of the community, the Ministers can assign Iceland's Minja Institute to evaluate values based on localisation and whether there is reason to suggest a proposal to be made to a national protection zone. So here comes Mr. President, this sentence: The Minister can also assign the National Minja Institute of Iceland to suggest that certain settlements, which, in the opinion of a minister, have a national security value, become a national reservation. That's where we really have the process where a country government proposes. All right. But is the suggestion to be carried out under organizational laws and the entire process involved? Then we have another process, which is that the Minja Office really appreciates this or the Minister, or Minister, assigns the Minja Office to evaluate values within individual settlements. However, there is actually a third channel that allows Ministers to hide the Minja Institute to suggest that certain settlements, which, in the opinion of a minister, have a national security value, will be made up of a national reservation. I wondered if it's natural for a minister, whoever he is, to do such a thing. He may have expertise in the subject, but he also does not know how to do so. Then you ask yourself: " Is it normal for a minister with no expertise in the subject to make suggestions for the Minning Institute for such action? I thought about that. That would be of great interest when we consider the matter to see how this is being done in the laws on culture. If I soon looked up the law on cultural mines from 2012, I'm not going to say that there's a complete examination, so the Minister decides a peace description or disqualifying a peace statement to be made by the Minja Institute of Iceland. It does not, in fact, define that a minister could assign an institution to make a suggestion for a specific peace description. So I put a question mark on this channel in general. In this case of the Minja Bureau, which is in its own cadet, I think it is more natural to suggest that the proposals come from a professional institution, in this case, in the case of the Minja Bureau, to be consulted by a Board of Shepherds who are to be appointed by special authorities for their decision at any given time. These three things I'd like to make special subject here, i.e. First of all, the design laws and neighborhood protection of areas we want to be at peace with from nature or vegetation or any of these things if the neighborhood protection thing goes away. Second, I make a comment to the paragraph where the Minister really gets the authority to make a suggestion to make a resolution. And third, I note that the arrival of the public and the population is not clearly defined in the bill. We must make the requirement for matters that concern our immediate environment, our organizational affairs, that there is a clear source of opportunity for the common people. It's in the spirit of the Agos Convention that we have validated that the public has that approach. Of course, we can say that we want the public to have an arrival, and we'll make sure of that, but do we not want it to be clearly defined by the law so that the rules of the games are all clear and transparent, so that the public should have a clear appearance? This may be asked, Because in the laws on culture, it is not really that there is a clear, defined process for the public to influence the course of events, but the emphasis on individual houses or housings has been natural, and the situation has been regarded as of the magnitude of the belief that there is no need for a special presentation in a larger area. Certainly it is the role of a house peace committee when she makes the suggestion, or the Minja Institute actually makes the suggestion, to introduce it to the stakeholders before it is sent by the Minister for payment. So everybody gets protested. But it is always less important, as it has just been pointed out. Here we are discussing bigger matters, larger areas that will be at peace. Then the process must be completely clear. I'm not gonna keep my case much further. I would like to ask, though, about the committee involved. I couldn't better hear, but I'm not quite sure, than to the highest. A minister suggested that the case be addressed to the General and Education Committee. He's going to nod it. Then I would like to finally say that the matter may be more likely to interact with organizational laws rather than cultural laws, and, in reality, it is very clearly stated in the bill's report that it is not intended to interfere with cultural laws than it will have a significant impact on the planning of the law. I wondered if they're not normal. The Environment and Transport Committee, which will take care of the group, will get the case. It is quite remarkable that we have several times in winter, Mr. President or Madam President, I'm sorry, we're not changing the President in the middle of a speech, it's very dangerous - debate over what the committees are going to do. There has been an Environment and Organizational Committee but a distinguished object from the table until now, I don't know if there's a tendency. But I would have thought, from the fact that we're primarily looking at the interaction of this bill with planning laws, that strong grammatical evidence was in order. Environment and Transport Committee. I hope to the highest. A minister who will arrive in a talk that follows may explain some of the questions raised here. But I restate on the fact that I think it's a good goal for the bill itself, to be able to view the overall security based on the collectives, but I think it's very important that we take care of ourselves as much as possible and make these comments at the first hour so that all of this will be examined.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u52	A respectable president. I come in answer primarily to thank you for your excellent comments. Senator. As I put it briefly earlier, I agree with it. A senator talked about quite a bit, i.e. the importance of assessing the public as much as possible as possible to take the initiative in evaluating the local or immediate environment, to see if such protection is possible. This has been a significant discussion in Britain, where, as I think I have mentioned earlier, often taking the initiative from the inhabitants themselves. There has been the possibility when the inhabitants believe that the local government does not work them well enough or that some other interests are put in place, interests such as interest. such as the contractor's ass. A senator mentioned wanting to go on great business in Soho, that the public can take the case to the minister for discussion. That's exactly why they judge like the Soho thing. One senator noted that it is very important to have as the strongest possibility and to protect the whole, to protect the population, because pressure to take on heavy projects can be very important. The more pressure the area becomes, the more attractive and sought after. I can't go over everything. A senator mentioned in this answer, but there is another answer, perhaps followed by a discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u53	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister, the answer. I would like to reiterate the views I presented in my speech on this if there is a general desire for that at both the highest. Minister and minister. The members of the council here have spoken about the coming of the public are loyal, and it is really necessary to make peace with one another about important decisions. It is my conviction that by living longer, organization influences people's quality of life, that the environment is humanized, so that people can prosper. Of course, it is important that the public can have an impact, both bioavailability and impact, so I would say that in whatever form, the work ahead of us would be very desirable. It will be referred to, in any way defined in cooperation with the Ministry how we accurately visualize the public access to this decision. I think it is very important not only that the public can collect signatures and returns, we need to have guidelines that are clear and transparent so that people can turn their case to the local administration or Minjais in such cases as the highest level. Ministers say that local governments experience that they are not listened. I think it's very important that the rules of the game are clear, transparent, so everybody has the same access.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u54	A respectable president. I reiterate what I have now mentioned aloft, that I believe that the much greater the potential for the public, the people themselves, is to take initiative in these matters, the better for the matter. So 'cause of what? One senator was concerned about the effects on neighborhood protection. It is well to note that this is merely a case of removing the part of the neighborhood protection that deals with older communities. This would not reduce the possibility of neighborhood protection or other measures being used to protect the natural environment in urban areas. I'll take my mind off what I'm saying. It is also very important to protect the natural environment and its interaction with the surrounding settlements and to make arrangements that the interaction work best.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u55	Madam President. I understand the ultimate explanation. The prime minister, in effect, maintains the laws of a neighborhood protection in ways other than those that attract protection from older settlements or other cultural monuments. Then I want to reiterate what I said in my speech that it is very important that these laws or legal columns, become this bill of law, cooperate, i.e. The laws of the law are on the side and on this series of reservations. I think it's very important that we don't experience it when the law comes to action then there's some overlap. I reiterate what I said earlier, and it would have seemed most natural to me that this case would go to that point. The Environment and Transport Committee, which handle organizational matters, will ensure that the extent to which we meet the organizational issues and this issue will be met. From the very first reading of this bill, I think, of course, the purpose and purpose of this bill are cultural, if we can say so, but it also has an abundance of impact on organization at least. There may be a conflict, so I feel very important that the context will be taken into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u56	A respectable president. I'd like to begin by celebrating that this is a case designed to preserve cultural history reflected in a building and a humanised environment. Here in this room is often discussed, or at least In recent years, nature's protection, but much less is involved in the human environment. There has been a record of laws on the rights of housing, but this is a solidly substantiated subject to that authority and better, since the bill is a major policy element in this matter. It is a special joy to see this under consideration, for urban areas truly exist places that can be viewed as culturally relevant. For example, I would like to point out that street photos in Reykjavík or Iceland have not really survived quite recently. There are a small number of street photos in the 1930's, but not many successful streets. They're only increasing, but I think I'm afraid that early street photos don't exist. From this point on, I want to point out that there is a tendency to look into the past in this relationship, there is a bit in the nature of the concept of protection and neighborhood protection, people are quick to fall down to the conclusion that it is the past that matters. But that is also true of the future street pictures being created today. I think it is as important that we consider protection at the beginning, since the end was to be examined at the outset. That is why I would like to discuss the very viewpoint I believe that the bill may not be properly met. The park is neighboringly reconciled and can be brought as far as it goes as this bill is concerned, the neighborhood, is not only the interests of the public in a historical or cultural context but also the interests of individuals living in the districts. They can have a measure of interest that the property owner next to them or in the neighborhood changes a house that changes the appearance of the whole neighborhood. So there are two types of viewpoints that need to be kept in mind. It is cultural value that we can say is a matter of interest for the nation, and then it is a person's personal interest because the freedom of man reaches as far as the nose of the next person and the environment of the individual houses affects neighbors. Some of these are just the street photos, whole set. It's a view I think it's normal to keep in mind when people talk about neighborhood protection. This is precisely why it is important for the inhabitants to take the initiative and be able to have real influence or at least When it comes to protecting their neighborhood, some sort of proverbial thing. A respectable president. Although I'm doing this planning thing on urban affairs, I still want to say that I'm no special Spokesman to be passed on anything that involves planning. Although I am an eager interested person, so to speak, on urban planning matters, it is not my goal to set laws about anything, although I do not believe that legislation can cover all aspects of home peace or protection will disappear and even nature if it is gone. I'm a member of politics, and I have a philosophy of belief that the right of possession is at peace, in fact, the foundation of democracy and prosperity of every nation. I am lucky to have been born in a land that has adopted that attitude by law. The property rights include two things, of course, the right to use, but they also have to be kept in mind when it comes to building up. It is a very fine line, and it is often difficult to harmonize the viewpoint of man's right to house peace and right to his possessions. It is to be held and held that the right of possession is the principle on the land and the views that violate the rights of possession must be supported by some argument that is considered to be of far greater importance to humans than to the right of possession. I have believed that marketing solutions in general are actually the best ones to protect both nature and house. I'm sorry that, for example, the politicians who agree with me on the protection of nature and housing have not given more thought to market solutions because it has been demonstrated, we have so many examples, that marketing solutions have actually been the only instrument that has worked in the protection of nature. For example, I take fishing resources from the sea and natural resources from various sources. Individual waterfalls have not been activated because they have been in the private property of people or individuals who have been exposed to nature's protection, even though there is considerable money available for them. I encourage Congress to keep this in mind when discussing the bill. I spent the weekend at a conference on the protection of the sea mines, in fact, missed a talk I understand at the highest. At the beginning of the conference, the prime minister was a well - informed conference. It specifically discussed how well the British and the Scots have been able to protect the sea mines. This can be an enormous task, according to the nature of the matter. Part of the reason Britain has done so well with protection of sea mines and, in fact, a wide range of protections from other mines, is that the exclusive rights in Britain are highly respected in this respect. Nature is the environment that is found on their planet; nature is at its advantage. They have permission to set up private collections, private art collections on culture. In this country it would not be possible to do so because a person sees culture as belonging to the State and the state has to run the museums. In the United Kingdom, this has been different, and in my opinion, they are far more effective in protecting cultures. So we take another example from the city of London, Britain, where people have protected certain neighborhoods and their appearances have disappeared. I take as an example black doors in our homes a few streets in Britain. This is not from above. This is not a directive from above that property owners on various streets in London have decided or where men are bound to care for their houses in a certain way. People have grown up for a hundred years or earlier when the houses were building up or the neighborhoods were building, their real estate markets required their appearance, and they still stand, and they need permission from everyone in the neighborhood if it fails. For example, there are no cases of painting their front doors with color other than black people. Then I come to what I mentioned at the outset. In the 3rd. The bill is a definition of cultural history. It is the history of culture and life in the past that is reflected in the human form of a neighborhood in a specific location, as the bill says. I think there's something working to really think about today and that we're wondering if it's not wise to give someone and the people some initiative in these activities, e.g. in the neighborhoods that are building up. Today, people may think that you are most interested in the central part of the city of Reykjavík. In new neighborhoods, historical values are building. How will they be taken along after 50 years, a neighborhood designed to the wick and architects may have named them in whole neighborhoods and streets? I'd say there's a good reason for the people of these neighborhoods to have a way of protecting them. Then they can say: They can come together, and they may announce houses for the appearance, care, and so on, but I'm not sure that it would last long periods of time in the light of the principle that a real estate owner's rights cannot be limited to a provision; I'm not sure that there would be a posetial law on this subject. This is one of the things I thought I'd give them a sense of why. A committee that will discuss the matter, whether it is possible to consider the future structural heritage that will exist at any given time, throughout the country, although I have mentioned the city of Reykjavík here. A respectable president. I'm not going to go on the bill in any other way than what I mentioned in answer, I don't see reason for it in Article 12. it is assumed that local protection regulations are removed from organizational procedures. Then I'd like to mention 6. g., considering that public and stakeholders should be given the opportunity to present views and comments. I thought it would be better to see that the law was being applied in a much clearer way than this. Other than that, I look forward to hearing about the end of this bill at what time. A global and cultural committee. I wonder, as well, if there's no more to it than a planning and environmental committee, but it comes out on one thing, because the matter always comes up for a discussion at the council. I look forward to hearing about the following and sharing in further discussions about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u57	A respectable president. Hv. The speaker brought some interesting comments and viewpoints into his speech. One thing like that. A senator mentioned the importance of the right of possession and of the provisional rights and the defending the right of property because only in this way people would invest in their possessions, and it would benefit everyone. We've got a case that has exactly one of the main roles of this bill. You see, you are absolutely right. A senator points out that the neighbors can have a considerable impact on one another's property. As a result, there has been a very negative force, such as developments in organizational matters here, especially in Reykjavík, while these neighbors have not been viewed. I'm just going to explain my point. Imagine neighbors living in the same houses, houses that may have been beautiful but have shown up at one time. One on this street has decided to spend considerable time and money making up its property and beauty, making it a success. The neighbor next to it, however, decides to leave the house on purpose, thereby detracting the environmental quality and value of the one who decided to put money in the building up of his house. But not only that, he lets the house dribble to the point that it is considered to be all that can be considered to be the loss of it and the construction of an apartment building instead. By doing so, a person who did not invest in his possessions gains considerable gain from losing his possessions, but those who put money in the protection and maintenance of it are punished.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u58	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll agree with that with the highest. Prime Minister. It is a well - known problem throughout the country, a well - known problem. The question, though, is: Is it possible, then, to force men to rebuild their houses? Can it be done by force? I'm not sure that this bill will meet the problem in particular. Although neighborhood protection may be involved in a few old streets in downtown City, I am not sure that it would move men to renovate their houses. The bill does not say that these houses need to be renovated or maintained. The problem, in effect, is that humans have not originally benefited from protecting the appearance or culture of their own property. Of course, people have seen no advantage in things that are crying because there is little that holds up real estate prices and valuables, and these possessions are often the only property of individuals in the country, the home where people live. Therefore, it is tragic that individuals have not benefited from maintaining their property and appearance according to the events in the neighborhood. That is why I mention here that people must not forget, for it is as important to look to the future and awaken people who are building, both architects, real estate dealers, who get assigned to some area, to know that this for the future, needs to be considered, to define their real estate, or their territory, in order to avoid opening up any kind of store or mind for a consistent future appearance. It's harder to look back and turn around. [[The president calls.]] This will only be done by a general conscious awakening. That may be what this bill has to say about these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u59	A respectable president. It may well be said with a bang. A senator's hard work is to force people to take good care of their possessions, for the main purpose here is to create a positive motive, because I believe that the market, which is what it is. In his speech, a senator spoke about a lot of things, will work if people get the minimal assurance that investing in their property will bring its beauty, that by not wasting away money because a neighbor can have much more than just letting his property drop down and get to build a new one. The fact that men have some minimal reason to look at the market, I think, works better. I'd think what. A senator will agree with me on this, for in many areas we have seen that since governments can reduce uncertainty and provide some relief there, the market works to push things in the right direction. So it's a matter of initiating a positive impulse. Because of what? A senator mentioned a neighborhood and a new neighborhood I just want to say that such neighborhoods can be very important and certainly worth protecting their overall appearance as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u60	A respectable president. I agree with that with the highest. When personal property is preserved, when it is done by private carers, the prime minister that the reality is important. That's why I made an answer here that I didn't feel necessary, as the bill says in Leviticus. g., assuming some sort of rural reassessment of their policy in neighborhood protection. We here in Reykjavík have experienced that the city of Reykjavík, the authorities in Reykjavík, has actually changed its nature by allowing all kinds of activities in the open streets, apartment streets, and that have not been found as many of the people's protests as possible. This is one example of how it is not enough to assume in law or in rules that citizens or other stakeholders can express their opinion, express their opinion of the matter, in some way make sure that they follow it if they are about to respect someone's local democracy. However, there has been a serious mistake here in Reykjavík, and I don't know what it's like to find out about the country. I'd like to finally say that the bill is worth all the talking, and I can't wait to observe the progress of this case here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u61	V.E.G. President. It's kind of fun to be in a council hall discussing three cases from the highest level. Prime Minister, first the national flag of the Icelanders and the national armor mark, then the reservations, and then the peoples. I'm saying this because, especially when I read the bill being discussed, on the reservations, I thought that we were sailing into that the Ministry of Presidency was running pretty much in this country, because there are indications that a prime minister would be a kind of chief town manager of the country and part of the local community would be placed under the Ministry of Directors. In addition, the Ministry is monitoring specific chapters, as in Article 7. This bill. I hope, though, that my prime minister was mistaken or misheared when he said that I should also protect people in this regard. I don't know exactly how he's going to do it. With all the fun aside, I'm going to make a comment and wonder that the case is going to go to bed. General and Education Committee, where I sit. I feel alone that the situation is also being addressed to the environment and transport committees where the local government and organizational matters are, as this issue is most relevant to these factors. There have been no disagreements in so far on the effort and idea to protect communities or neighborhoods, thus creating a basis for the cultural and artistic value of individual areas, to be assured in some way. On the other hand, I am amazed at how this subject is handled, how it is handled in this bill, and how much the decision course, as I said, is in the Supreme Court. Prime Minister, although the memory protection went under it. It is repeatedly stated, that is, I believe, four regulations in the bill that are more and less about self-sponsored rights. Prime Minister to implement regulations. There are also strict regulations that say that once rural society has decided things, it needs to be submitted to a minister. I think it is necessary to examine this bill in view of local and local administration directives and the government. This is a general comment that I think we need to examine. Now, the highest witness. Of course, a foreign - law minister has reason to examine them, but I do not know how they cooperate with other laws in the local territory or whether this is a local prime minister. For example, 4. The bill has the minister of initiative to hide the Minja Institute to provide proposals for a specific building which, in the opinion of the Minister, has a national preservation value. In the same article, it is assumed that a minister will make a decision for protection based on the proposal of a local government or a Minning Institute, i.e. The minister is always in charge of that. For this to be possible, a much clearer law and the presence of the local people and how it is related to that process is needed. Seven. states that the approval of a local community should send a minister to confirm it, and soon it is stated that a minister will determine whether a territory preserve is agreed. There may now be other laws that can be quoted and applied in planning laws and environmental laws and other things, but in a hurry it works quite much as the Ministry's monologue, even though it has come to the Memorial, and joined the company's rights. Eight. is a chapter entitled Necessary Work in a Homeland Protective Area. It says that the decision of the government depends on the approval of a minister. There is something that needs to be taken a very close look at. I know that the government has put its eyes in that sentence and made comments to it, although they will give formal comments on that law. I can only see that much of what is being inserted here is already in organizational laws, in the laws of culture, and exactly this about the neighborhood protection that has been discussed, and how to play together. I need a much better explanation for this bill. This also concerns the whole administration. It was surprising when the highest. Government moved the tribe from the Ministry of Culture and Education to the Ministry of Presidency, i.e. case of the Minjah Institute, the house protection and the like. This is often done if a group of paintings is meant to be of special importance, perhaps it is temporary while the present level is at hand. The prime minister is particularly interested in the category of languages, but I don't think it's a very careful government to try to make it a structured, simple thing and that the same organisations and members care about similar matters. This is reflected in where this matter is going within the council, i.e. to the General and Education Committee. There could be a disagreement, such as before, in which there could be a conflict between the means of organization and the culture's survival. As I said earlier, it is repeated that the rights of the rural society are being taken out of the hands of those with professional knowledge. Of course, a department within the Ministry of Presidency has now been established, and the bill is not expected to be an additional source of activity. Where are the experts working behind the highest standards? Prime Minister when working specifically on this, I don't talk about the initiative or anything like that? Perhaps the Minja Institute is for this, and without consulting with all the others. I have to agree with what has been said here that there must be a much clearer proportion of the areas in the countryside, the arrival of the population, the initiative of the people to produce ideas and how to treat them, etc. The same principle applies to making a special schedule every four years. It is a general law of order, and you ask: Is that not enough? Is it not certain that this will be the subject every four years, uplifting, extending, and thus the memory protection and thus the preservation of special settlements? I challenge the committees and the council to look into it specifically, and I hope the locals are deeply involved. In my opinion, the goal is in itself positive, but it's not a good thing. There are speculations from those people who have already considered this. For example, this bill does not show up every time you give your bills, to evaluate whether this will work on the Constitution rights of anyone, in this case, the local community. There's no such thing as this. We do not discuss who was consulted. True, it turns out that in terms of the overall cost of the bill, they have requested an expense assessment of their rural communities, but they can be read under a certain note because they do not seem to like this law. They feel that it will go to the rights of the community, although it is not put in the bill on the economy of rural society, it is a special thing before the Ministry of Economic Affairs comes into play. I'm not gonna spend a lot of time in this discussion, but I'll be watching it when I can. I have to leave the house in a minute, but I hope we can set things right here. I don't think it's acceptable in the modern administration that if individual ministers are interested in specific matters, they can grab the party. Even if they can do a great deal of good, as we have seen - e.g. in reserves to preserve the overall picture, including in or near, if, I remember correctly, where they're creating 3D drawings and one at the top of the initiative. The prime minister, who is alone very positive - we must put this into the other gear, that there will be a minister who has no interest in the seminary. The setting must be no matter who is directing the media at any given time, so that the initiative is continued at the company, in the administration, in the public, but not dependent on the highest decision. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u62	A respectable president. This matter is about whether we're going to open up to the environment of the night's decision or whether we're going to promote democracy and professional knowledge. I think it is important that the decisions that concern the environment of their rights and daily lives and that most decisions are made in a democratic way by the public and based on professional knowledge. For example, we have a law code that deals with the protection of historical monuments, and there are long paragraphs on how to ensure knowledge and that decisions are based on professional grounds, and there is a whole institution, the Minja Institute of Iceland, which determines when to declare peace, pastries, and so forth. It is a careful code of laws, and it lays down what to do when it comes to ratings and so on. We have a body of laws called planning laws that suggest the setting of all these decisions, how to decide that there's a bike path or decide that this area should be a shopping area, where to build, where to be an airport, and so forth. That law also contains regulations that provide rural governments, through professional and democratic procedures, the right to protect their habitats, and the title of neighborhood protection. Reykjavíkurburg has a large plan for the protection of the community, and much work is being done on housekeeping in Reykjavík and in the specificities of neighborhood protection has been used in a democratic process. So I don't understand the need for the bill. I have to be honest with you. I don't know why this bill is. Why is this authority needed especially by local governments? Is it not so important that one part of the organization of cities and towns is taken out of organizational laws and put in another direction? Consider an example. The bill presented here says that if a minister chooses to protect the environment and yet there is a plan for implementation on this locality, the government would have to seek out the public opinion of it. But what kind of process is that? Is it near exposure and all that is discussed in organizational laws? Is this some other kind of public approach on the bill all of a sudden? There is no reference to organizational laws. It's a void somehow. I'm not satisfied that we change the law and adopt new law columns because certain ministers are interested in something, although they are interested in strengthening and protecting historical records, they do not write a law code about it. I share the aims of protecting historical communities, but we also need to face the fact that there can be a deep and hot case of opinion related protection. This has been close to the fact that these houses are naturally owned by someone, and there can be a wide range of ideas about doing things in the settlements and people own these houses. Then I say that when making potentially difficult decisions to protect some settlements, against a number of existing interests, e.g. Plans to build something new there, we must rely on the tools and tools best involved. It's a democratic process. It is difficult for stakeholders to make disagreements about conclusions that arise in a democratic process and laid down in organizational laws and by the introduction of professionals that there is an institution, an administration that appreciates the real need to protect certain areas of town. Then the stakeholders, who may wish to build there, may accept that conclusion. Here, however, it's for the Minister to decide. He just decides to protect the settlement. What's the status of stakeholders if they don't want to protect, if they want to build there? What are the charges? What basis do they have to accept the minister's decision? What's the arrival of the professionals? What's the arrival of the public? Why should this be the best way to secure, or make, a higher degree of protection, to bring it to the minister's senses? It is not stronger than the democratic and professional decision - making power. Not at all. I asked the highest. The minister of the past what would happen if in the chair a minister sat down who had no interest in protecting his home. What happens then? What, then, is the position of a rural society that wants to protect its population? The neighborhood protection principle has then been taken from organizational laws, which means that communities have no tools in that law code to protect the settlements, do not have the tools they now have. They must in accordance with the bill, without exception ask the minister, make a suggestion for him to protect his settlement. What if the Minister says no, I'm not interested in protecting these settlements, I'm not interested in protecting any settlements, now just build new houses. What if such a minister comes, what is the place of the inhabitants? What's the status of the government? What practical suggestions can she use to prevent gross cultural accidents in her rural states? The tools have been taken from the countryside and brought to the secretary's office. It means that, according to the bill, decisions in this important category will be subject to the minister's mental authority. To me, it's not a question of making a higher case under the highest rank. Prime Minister said he was doing it. It's just not. I think we're taking the group on dangerous paths. You can be interested in things in politics. For example, I am interested in getting more bicycle riding in Reykjavík. What if a man was now a government developer, and for example, an eco-friendly path of transportation and bicycle riding? That is a very noble and important goal. I can tell you something else. A playground for children. That the government puts it in a government contract to care for children's environment, schools and playgrounds, and it becomes part of an ambitious family policy in the country. I'd like to mention these two examples, one on the other of eco-friendly transport, the other of family policy. Surely these would be indistinguishable goals. Who doesn't want this? But why should we not, since the precedent is set here, set special laws on the children's playground and schools with regulations that all decisions about the playground and schools should be taken by the minister, and we would bring that party specifically into the department I may be in so that I can control everything about it, is not, because this is in my special interest field. We tell fellow rurals that they should not think more about where the playgrounds are or how the schools are because they are making a decision to do this. A very important matter, so we're going to make it higher by choosing a minister. Is it? Would we do that? Would we not be able to remove the very purpose of making decisions from all the organizational laws that require democratic approach and access to the public and so forth? Wouldn't we be just saying this important thing, building a game area for children, completely in the middle, where this structure would totally depend on one person's intention? I think people must better understand what it means to be a democracies and the ease of a professional person. This is the best way to resolve things so that there will be no division thereafter. This is often a huge debate over organizational matters, very hot, because interest and opinions are very big in many places. Someone buys an old house, like. In the middle city, with ideas of doing something about it, building a glass bowl or something, and thinking that the bowl is completely consistent with the spirit of the house. Organizational authorities may comment on this. Then there can be a way of dealing with this conflict in a process. There are a number of charges. It's a close-up. You can try to convince your neighbors. What justice is there to have bought houses somewhere, then elections, and after elections the minister decides that this settlement should be protected? That's what he decides. All of your plans for rebuilding in a specific way at this house are thus in a solution. What are the hotline? Where does the owner of the house stand on this decision? It's not a law of order. What's the court? Is he going to ask the neighbors and get their help? There's no definition in the bill. V.E.G. The prime minister claims that this is the case in the countries we want to compare with. I'd like to hear that story. Is that what happens in many lands, so prime minister decides on such a one - sided basis? He can, in effect, do this on its own; he can ask it at the Minja Institute for a proposal to appease a part of the town, to find no place for the common people; in itself, no satisfaction of professionals. He can do this. Can a minister do this in many places? There's news to me. I have experienced political developments so that much more is being moved over to the public than again to the ministers because of what I've spoken about here before, because of the power there, the source of power. When faced with a decision, it is difficult to deal with it, and the best way to resolve differences is to consult with the democratic authority. I'd like to add the professional too. It usually goes together. What country is it like in the bill? Why is this not considered in the report? I didn't see it. The bill says that we had a consultation with our communities. I've only checked that out, and my sources say it's agreed, e.g. To Reykjavíkurburg, that was claimed to me, was nothing, but what do I know? There's a word against a word here. Based on what I hear from my rural communities, they are understandable against the bill, since the authority that is very normal is in their hands and bound to organizational laws is being taken away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u63	A respectable president. I share with what. In the United States, for example, a member of the Council of England's law that it is a good idea to have a place in housekeeping and preservation of historical communities, but also to think that there is not a general conclusion to simplify and make it all more efficient and streamlined to break up legislation and make laws about their interests, but I think that if the committee that makes the matter look at it with them, it would be a different way of creating the exact opposite procedure. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. What I've wondered about is what is really what these legislations provide for current sources. For example, suppose you have a valid organization, a valid shared organization to form a field, as the news is. For example, in the capital area, it is the principle that local division is in place, and it has been a tool to determine whether an organization of almost value of any kind of property or that the owner of the box may assume that it can build up according to the relevant authority, and if the government operates in any way in which it may be passed, it may result in the improvement of the authority. That's what's been disputed. It's been getting closer in part as a change in organizational laws now last year, I think. But this is not in any way the approach of the existing bill. I'm asking why. A senator whether he can predict exactly how this aspect can be prepared, whether existing organizational laws will cover what is happening here with increased government authority to assume possible rights? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u64	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. Communicating with other legal groups in this case, I think it's gonna be really weird. I can imagine. The protection of urban or urban areas must be organizational, that is, fundamental to organizational matters, for example, in the direction of the city's city in the centre of the Ring Road, where the policy is to protect and protect the city. It then comes to all other decisions within the city, where bicycle footpaths will be, what firebirds will look like, and so on. Taking this fundamental part, the protection, from this must create an amazing number of complications. Asked for a legal status, what is the city's legal standing, such as in the center of the city, if it has not been the cause of protection? What, then, should she say to those who want to act? Her power to protect the settlement is not available, there is a minister who may take it and he may not be interested in it, and I don't talk about it if he's ever supposed to be estimating it every four years, after every election, it's a naturally amazing roundabout in this. What is the right of the city to prevent disaster from occurring? Then there's the other. The bill does not stipulate the rights of individuals, the owners of the homes, on this decision every four years. [[The president calls.]] Should they constantly remain in expectation of their intentions, depending on who is the minister? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u65	A respectable president. There are many speculations that come to mind when we review the bill on 1st. What I'm worried about is this is making a pattern. It's this bill here that's about taking over power from the government and moving it to the minister. It can be good when we have a minister who burns the case. All right. I think we all agree that this Minister is an appointed minister. This is the highest minister. The Sigmundur over Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who should almost write into the bill because it's about him. At the same time, there's a bill for a song that's been in the Constitution, which is a public protection law. It's about bringing great power to a minister under certain circumstances. It's also from the highest. Prime Minister Davíð, Gunnlaugsson. Third bill is a bill for the Council of Control, which is about what? It's about putting power on the highest power. Prime Ministers of the Sigmundur of Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla. I think it always matters when we're working at the council that we don't look at every case isolated, because here are certain tendencies that are reflected in one case after another, which I am deeply concerned about. In Comb 4. The bill, as shown in the case of what? A senator, is not enough to have the minister become virtually monopoly on the matter. Rather, he may have a case of this kind, a matter of protection, a course at the table of Ministers if he is not interested in the case. This issue could directly counteract personal goals if man's office is made in any other way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u66	A respectable president. I asked the highest. One prime minister, before what would happen, if a minister was not interested in local security and I am disappointed that he had not received a clear or clear answer to that thought. It tells me that men have become somewhat blinded by their own interest and authority, they don't see the world out of it. Men are not eternal in office. Law must be written away from who sits in office. You're right next door. A senator says that there is a trend in the matter. The matter is being presented according to an issue where decisions are to be made to a minister and to tie them to his interests and interests. It's not working. If so, it would be best to establish a law about Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson and what to decide. It's too coloured by an amateur field. Minister. We have to protest. And I'd like to mention one more that describes a similar tendency, and it's the way men associate with a frame plan, a strategy for activation, and protection. It has to do with the natural thing. Here's a bill on how to visualize the protection of settlements, part of the city. Do we remember to accept that the setting around nature's protection, the protection of nature bulbs, was the same as in this bill? If we were to try changing out nature's habitat? Would this be an adequate frame? Would it be okay if it were so, that a minister could decide whether Gold Falls was protected or not and would be reviewed every four years? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u67	Madam President. I share with other members of the council who have expressed a keen interest in housing, memory protection, and organizational matters over their heads, and who would like to discuss only the issues outlined here. I also share with many other members of the council who have spoken before the concern of how the bill enters relatively new and highly improved organizational laws approved in this hall on September 9, 2010, i.e. No. 123/2010. In many ways, this law has caused significant breakthroughs in organizational matters and the handling of organizational matters among rural society, and it is very good news about this, as stated in the Supreme Meeting. The prime minister when he recommended the bill, that over the decades there have been bad things to do in international planning. However, while many things have been broken in the past, this does not necessarily mean that they do so today, hence, not necessarily say that everything is in cold charcoal. I'm worried that when you read the bill, you'll feel like you've never been able to deal with these issues before. I find it very interesting to see a bill for law, which involves much planning and planning, where it really does not mention organizational laws, except just in the future, showing that some of their articles change and 5 mg. Thirty-seven. Organization to be removed, i.e. Part of the environmental protection directives that infiltrated the 2010 Organizational Act and pretended to be a great improvement, which came to the wishes of the rural society. As more members of Congress have mentioned, there is considerable concern that there is being a transfer of power from the administrative level, which are rural governments and ministers directly. Sometimes you get the feeling, and I agree with what. In the past, members of the council who spoke it up just before see more examples of this on the topic and the suggestions that have taken place recently. There seems to be a tendency to draw authority to ministers, i.e. increase central control. Whether it is a special form of authority that causes or distrust in those who exercise authority over other administrative matters, I don't know and I don't intend to guess which is the case, but both are extremely incorrigibly and worrying. Four. Section 4. The bill will appear, with the permission of the President: The Minister can also assign the National Minja Institute of Iceland to suggest that certain settlements, which, in the opinion of a minister, have a national security value, become a national reservation. In fact, the evidence has been added that, on the one hand, local governments can offer proposals to protect territory and that the Mineral Institutes can offer such a suggestion, setting out specifically one principle that a minister can, according to his own assessment, suggest that certain areas will be preserved and can do so without consideration or, in fact, without consultation, and without agreement, whether it is a local administration or a Minning agency. I have to agree with the former senators'words that we must not forget that here at the Council, we put a law away from who is serving as ministers or who performs them at any time. Although such power can do well in the hands of a minister of special interest and knowledge in a case, it is, of course, a dangerous power in the hands of a minister who does not have an interest or knowledge of a language class. How permanent power is actually committed to a minister in the bill can be very damaging when it comes to protecting territory and settlement, if the minister is opposed to such protection. I would like to quote organizational laws from 2010 because I really like them and I know my previous life at the local level that they have caused quite a turning point in how organizational arrangements have been made. In chapter I of the law it says their objective, by permission of the President: ▪ The aim of these tracks is: a. that development and land use of the whole country will be in accordance with the strategy for which the economic, social, and cultural needs of the people of the country, their health and safety are being guided, b. to promote the practical and practical use of land and land, to ensure protection of landscapes, nature and cultural value, and to prevent environmental damage and overuse, with sustainable development guided by, c. to ensure legal security in the handling of organizational matters so that the right of individuals and lawyers will not be placed in the table, although the benefits of the whole body are guided, For example, to ensure that planning programs are addressed to the general public so that they are given the opportunity to influence the government's decision to make such plans, .. to ensure professional planning of man-making in the construction and shape and access of planning plans for everyone. Later, says II. of the law, of the 3rd. ... withauthority of the President's permission: In accordance with these laws, the secretary of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York is in charge of organizational matters. Mr. Secretary to help you is a Organization, sir. Section 4. The secretary who conducts the environment of defense and security is the head of planning procedures in defense and security areas as defined in the protection laws [...]. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: The European Commission operates on the preparation of regional, main and shared planning programmes. They are about permission and granting implementation and monitoring of the implementation of the planning and the implementation of the Marketing Authorisation. With the bill, parts of this program are being cut off by this authority, by the duties of the unit's administration, by dislocation, and by transfer to Minister. More importantly, a minister himself, anyone making that office at any given time, has the ability to make decisions about this. I am so worried because the organizational issues are the right and duty of the rural society and self-sponsored authority and the independence of rural governments are governmental. This country's not just part of a town. Civil government is a administrative level in the Iceland Board of Government. Farmers are not part of a town that is especially dependent on stakeholders or something more unusual at their work than to form elected representatives at the high General Assembly. Company officials represent the public. Some of them have more votes than any senator sitting here. I think it's a dull tendency to be seen in this bill and other elements we've seen lately that made the shoes some other level of government, the country's level of government not exactly trusted for its work. I'm sorry because I think I'm not going anywhere. I'd like to mention a little bit about that in Article 12. In the bill, there are changes in other laws and are specifically adapted to fit the purpose of this legislation. For one thing, 5 mg is expected. Thirty-seven. An organization will fall away where neighborhood protection is discussed. That law was thought to be, as I mentioned, a great relief, and a strong entry into the relatively new release of the world's main organization of Brooklyn's Republic, in 2010 -2030 approved by the mayor of November 26, 2013. The first source is new information to deal with the neighborhood structure and the structure of neighborhood organizations, and they are linked to them. disappearing protection from downtown Reykjavík, inside the Ring Road. That's what's expected for the 37th grade. will drop down a law that says so, by permission of the President: ▪ When delegating, assessment of the maintenance of an existing phenotypic and individual buildings should be performed through the construction of a building. When working on such neighborhood planning, it is permitted to deviate from the requirements for future generation planning in new settlements and to focus rather on general rules of overagement and protection of the community as well as the general framework. The rules for dissociative management apply to neighborhood arrangements as appropriate. As far as I can see, in the current law, there is a real authority to handle the problem. The prime minister stated that it was one of the main challenges we would have to present the bill we are discussing here. I'm impressed that this is a new bill, where we can say that the opposition is somewhat similar to a sentence of the dominant law, while it is suggested that this sentence be removed. However, 6 mg is not suggested. Section 12. It says, with permission of the president: If there is a need to protect the characteristics of older civilizations or other cultural memorys, natural monuments, natural disasters or vegetation due to historical, natural or cultural value in the preparation of a plan of planning, without peace under any other law, the relevant strategy for neighborhood protection should be set in place. This paragraph of organizational law stands. I'm not only concerned that this is a double matter but it can cause misunderstandings and just work against one another. I agree with what others have. Councilmen have mentioned before me that I also worry about reform rights and how to handle reforms and lawsuits, the introduction of the public, and the introduction of owners in this context. I'm not going to add much to that. Before I do what I want to say, I'd like to say. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who mentioned in her speech and reply earlier today that it was remarkable that a bill that had such a rich and dramatic effect on the planning and self - determination of a community should be replaced by a global and educational committee. I would like to make a formal proposal for a change there and that the bill will be referred to an environment and transport committee involved in rural and organizational matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u68	A respectable president. We're going to discuss a bill on a national reservation, and I'd like to thank you for an interesting discussion I've been watching here today. I feel that much in the bill can improve the future with the rest of the reservations. I must admit, though, that as many people have spoken to me today, when I first read the bill, I wondered if we were really changing something from what I knew as a local government, and we have called neighborhood protection. The first reaction was: Are we going to the rights of our local society? But as I look at the bill more closely, I think that the kind of work in which it is being introduced must be able to strengthen both the local community and the community. However, there are a lot of things I believe that an interesting must be considered on the committee. I've been looking forward to getting the bill under consideration on the General and Education Committee, but we'll see what brings it up first, there was a formal proposal about something else. Where it is. I have been told of the permission of Ministers in the existing bill, I have wondered, " What is the opinion of the senator in the main difference between the minister's permission in the existing bill, about the protection areas of the country, and the authority of the Minister for peace of land, under nature protection laws, or the secretary's authority to pacify culture, under the laws of culture? ' I can't see any better than there are ministers' sources in a similar way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. Now I have to admit that I am neither a expert on nature laws nor the cultural laws to which the senator testifies, so I do not trust to take my stand on the permission of a minister of that law. But if they are as expected here, i.e. that a minister can assign an institution to make a proposal in the Minister's opinion without any suggestion, advice or definition of consultation with professionals or others, I just don't think it's a good example, and I make a great comment about it in this bill. I have to agree with what. A senator, an ex-communicator and also an amateur in memory protection and in these matters in general, believes that I can do better in these matters. Even though my talk specifically quoted in organizational procedures and the type of work that exists there, it does not mean that it is final, complete, and cannot be replaced. But I'm worried about that, even though I believe that good intentions are behind this bill's contract, that there's just so much trouble here that I'm worried about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Óttar of Proppér answer. I have to say the same thing as he does that I'm not an expert on these laws, but I'm no better than that in cultural law, a minister can similarly hide the same institution, Minja protection, to make suggestions. I expect to receive interesting comments from rural society and the European Union, and to be no better than the Commission's work in the bill, have led to the interaction between management plans and policy-making programmes in which to ensure that work in the reservations or strategy is not possible without its interaction. I believe that rural society will follow through on that work song as it becomes clear and specific. But I'd like to come in to what has been discussed here earlier today, i.e. In what ways the public might take the initiative and come to decisions through the process in the development of habitats, whether or not. A senator has ideas about that, the process for public survival.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u71	A respectable president. Yes, thank you again for the answer. As I said in my previous reply, I believe that although wording, speaking of the right and the authority of a minister, may be similar in other laws, in general, I do not consider having things good because they are not good somewhere else. I believe that it is very clear in today's planning laws - and again a great improvement in the 2010 organizational legislation - on the one hand, to explain the process, how organization is done, how to deal with the general public, how the public's approach is assured, both by the information and by the public's availability of direct access to work and then by the government, the Bureau or Ministry, and by approval of finality, and by the lawsuits, on planning. I think it's very clear in planning, and I'm worried that taking out a certain part and putting it here into a special law, where it's not as secure as it is, or convened, as some senators remembered, that this event and these lawsuits are at hand -- I just say, "I think it's a comeback, and it's possible that there's a lot of trouble." I agree with what. Senator, I'm worried about that, and I'm expecting for continued discussion to explain.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u72	A respectable president. We will discuss a bill for a national reservation, a prime minister's bill designed to contribute to the protection and preservation of settlements of historical value. The discussion has led to an explanation of the situation and, as if there were no counterargument, to explain to you the basis for the prime minister's self - determination of rights and organizational authority in this respect, to be taken out of the hands of a rural partner, or to what evidence is there to make a definitive change in the arrangement that has proved to be effective. Unfortunately, this is a matter that is quite successful in the pattern that has been growing up on other members of Congress since the highest level. Prime Ministers and, in fact, other advisers who are concerned with increasing the power of ministers, increasing Ministers in the community, and increasing government. Of course, it is shocking to see such trends in young politicians of a new government and is really a real challenge to the development that has been essentially in national legislation and in the countries around us, in terms of the spread of power and the increased efforts of the public to make decisions, especially in the immediate environment. We will discuss two aspects, one on the other, and one on the other, one on the other. So that's what they say without any hesitation, I share the highest opinion. Prime Ministers that it is important to have a place of protection and preservation built up and to make no comment at that primary objective. However, I believe that the procedure presented here does not benefit and that it is, in fact, simply that it is possible to argue that this is a problem with the principles of the administrative rights, which are being put out of the hands of those who have professional knowledge in rural society and through a very detailed rule of counsel with the general public, because the terms that appear in the bill, by permission of a president, are very strong. This is discussed in 4 mg. Section 4. The bill to: The Minister can also assign the National Minja Institute of Iceland to suggest that certain settlements, which, in the opinion of a minister, have a national security value, become a national reservation. A respectable president. This is my opinion, no doubt, in violation of the European Court's principles, because how can it be that there is a general procedure and legal order that there is an adequate legal basis for something to be maintained by a minister's opinion? Period. Intensity this is totally out of harmony with the main objective of existing organizational law. I see no better than the fact that the rest of the organizational laws are involved, that it is not really enough to take care of them as presented here, to suggest that the regulations of the organizational laws fall down that have to do with cultural mines and the guidelines for the neighborhood protection fall down and that are enough to make it a matter of planning. The strategy Act - which is a legal bill recommended for 2010 and then became a law by the secretary of all classes at the General Assembly. Why was that? This was because it required a very thorough and broad consultation with the local government to find out the results of the organizational laws that were then determined. It is not as if these organizational laws were one of the traditional norms of the majority law, which were opposed in their time; rather, it is the legislation of the law that was brought here in a tripolitic hall and in careful consultation with the rural regime. It is the intention of the main organization at any given time to be the stage of policy development. The main design is the site of rural policy in cooperation with the population. It's actually a theme which is the theme of all the planning legislation in Iceland, i.e. that the elected representatives, local government representatives, are intended to achieve such policies, both as a national decision-making and as well as a forward look for transport systems, for laxity, etc. in consultation with the people of the community. So I think it's very thought - provoking whether what is presented here in Article 4. and before you know it, i.e. that certain organizations that, in the opinion of a minister, have a measure of preservation, are in conflict with what is now the main development of existing organizational laws, and it would be necessary to revise the organizational objective because this is a reference to certain factors that are not viewed to the views and ideas of the inhabitants. Others of the stakeholders are not looked to for boundaries of policy, which in the 2013 organizational order are told to cooperate effectively with the population and other stakeholders from the beginning of the organizational process. Not only the advertisement period as mentioned at times, but information on the planning process and the organizational data should be available during the entire upcoming period. This is a key because it involves not only unique articles of the organizational laws as discussed here but also matters only if I may become poetic, soul in the organizational legislation that is involved in this wide reconciliation. This has been a review of references to nature protection laws involving some such warrants for Ministers, Memorial Laws, etc. It is all true and true that such laws can be found in legislation, however, both their implementation of laws, whether natural protection laws or minor laws, and changes in legislation over the past 10, 20, 30 years have all been involved in increasing public access and reducing central control. This is the development of national legislation and legislation in the countries around us in all of these languages. It is not necessarily simple for a minister who burns for a lawsuit to realize or submit to the fundamental tendency of legislation, but it is necessary to do so, because if we take one of such a small part out of it and say, "There is something that one particular minister burns at some particular time, and thus the case is done high above his head, it is a danger for them to be thrown to a democratic ground for calm and to pay the matter for it in its due time, that it will actually be a disaster of the highest degree. A minister does not anticipate the matter while he is in charge and will expect to have some temporary future in office. It is our democratic obligation that legislation be such that it is a country and a nation for the benefit of a long future, but it is not about creating us as individuals with practical and useful conditions to care for our interests for some defined or undefined time. A principle on the main organization says that edification is part of what the main organization is to discuss. It is very difficult to see that rural development and vision can be discussed in the main organization, and this aspect is taken out of parentheses. It is very difficult to see that it is possible, or that the rural communities have some way of preparing for any idea of a prime minister at any time going out and south or north and down according to incidents and not necessarily in accordance with local vision at any given time. The order of organization also states that the area of protection should be set up according to organizational procedures. I wondered, a respectable president, if it's the highest. Ministers, Ministers of Environment and Resources, have come to decide that the specific aspects of organizational order will be eliminated by the establishment of these laws if all of them are eliminated, as it clearly shows that it makes clear the current policy of the main structure and laws of order for peace and protection, including neighborhood protection where the area should be excluded and the peaceful and peaceful civilizations that are protected and will be identified as relevant, and as well as to establish a future policy based on a search. This is part of what comes to mind. I also, a respectable president, would like to make a formal suggestion here, and I think it is right to be done, and kindly I believe the President must agree with a messenger to direct work on the bill to why. Environment and Transport Committee. Because, as shown in comments on the Law bill on page 26. 4, then it is not intended to interfere with cultural legislation. The legislation on culture is uncontaminated. What's being touched on this bill is the planning laws. A respectable president. I think it is simple that although there is truly some kind of market situation here, it is the principle of order that must primarily be considered in the light of the bill presented here. In fact, I believe that it is worthwhile and possible to do so in a good crosspolitic agreement, for I do not hear that humans in general are in a material way opposed to well - founded cultural and historical settlements, that it is more likely to try to make the subject of the bill practical in current organizational laws. I don't think there's anything against it that's going to be done, and I want to encourage the management part to consider that approach, because I believe that at the foundation the goals here are for good. What may be the greatest challenge, except for this interaction with the Organizational Act, is to ensure that this clear approach to the public is ensured if the content of the bill does not simply adapt more fully to the current organizational laws, for it is, of course, where the public is very clear in existing organizational laws. Then you don't have to do that handwork again, because these squares fall in there, and the public has clear access to it. In other words, this is by the interaction with the laws of order and the clear access of the common people. And then I've got indications that here may be a very serious gap in terms of both charges and possible reform rights, as well as the situation that actually exists as shared and building privileges, etc. has faced such legislation, of course, a question that has not been answered in a detailed way during this discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir for interesting coverage. I deeply share her interest in getting closer than we've been through, whether it's about memory protection, protection, or protection. I know why. A senator well knows the laws of nature, both the older ones and those on which the execution was delayed, and therefore I wondered, " Who in the opinion of the Senator is the key difference between the minister's authority on the existing reservations and the secretary's authority for peace in the field of nature protection and, if that is, the law of cultural law. Is the authority really different in this bill? Well, maybe. A senator hastily realized the difference between the interaction between nature protection laws and organizational laws on the part of this bill and the interaction?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u74	A respectable president. What's really under here is another bill designed to lead to legislators, which is about to dispose of a country by some means. We've seen and treated in various committees of the Senate bill called the daily bill, nature passes bill, we're talking about nature protection laws, we're talking about a frame plan, we're talking about electrical lines, etc. It's about to be rushed or affected by planning laws. Yesterday, national planning was measured. It is very thought - provoking to bring in laws that are still involved in this picture. I think it's a great deal of work to look to the existing legislation and try to build in the existing legal columns. I'm talking about how to form the built - in bill, which has been mentioned and should be comfortable at home, too, in the building of a national system of protection and may well be approached in this way. It's not at the expense of the subject. Because of what? A senator asked no minor questions on the interaction of nature protection laws, planning laws, and all that is the main currents and policies in all of these legislation to reduce media control, first strengthen the communities, and secondly, the general public. That is what the main steps have been working toward. Because we're talking about the green code in nature protection, I know that divulge code very well. They are very strong, but they are not used because of people's understanding, that is, the understanding of the government, and they have been for years, that success in peace can be achieved only by partners, landowners, and environmental authorities. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is the thought that we must also introduce into lyrics.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u75	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. I think the main thing is to watch the pros and cons of the laws we already have and how we have managed to activate the public and the local government there. For example, I believe that the arrival of the public and the local government, if that is the case, is not clear enough at various levels in nature protection. I think we have to think seriously about the same thing when we're talking about memory protection and a reservation. What I'm trying to figure out is how we're doing it best with the strategy. These are certainly two ways, on the one hand, to take specific assignments in specific legal categories that need to be properly played with the strategy, as is being done here, and the questions naturally need to be answered in the committee to which the matter is being discussed. What I would like to ask the senator is how she envisions that the public can take the initiative. What Ways Do the People Have? Is it part of a country? Would it be for the Minjan Institute, if it were the initiative to set up a reservation or put an agreement on a reservation? And, on the other hand, what levels would the public need to arrive at if the initiative was made by a minister or by a local government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u76	A respectable president. It is the main note of the Arse Treaty to increase public access to decision-making and information at all levels, i.e. not in the spirit that may have remained the longest, that the public would not be involved until it was so late that a decision was made - we all know that it is too late to make a decision once all permission and the public have been accepted - but to open the process much, much earlier, that the public has the possibility of seeing the decision being born, entering it in early stages. The core of the Hésar Treaty is that this will result in a much lower number of counts in later stages because that is when the public simply came to the case. Therefore, it is my position, and I believe that the main thing is that the general public has the most diverse possibility of making proposals for protection, whether to be a member of the country, to the Minjah Institute, or even to a minister after an incident. But the main point is that the public is very well informed about their potential. That's what I think the lack of more often than not on our side when we're strengthening the public's position in something, not just in these matters or in nature protection or whatever, is not that the public is aware of the changes in the law we're making and even strengthening the survival of the same public, which may just shrunk their shoulders and have not realized the change that is taking place. This is my second answer to questions. A senator, but I'd like to draw attention to it, and maybe it's part of a second talk, in Article 12. is to the 5th party just to drop 5 mg. Thirty-seven. the word "organization " has become a unique term that came into the law there and serves primarily the capital area, taken out, and there is nowhere else to be found in organizational laws. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's got to be hand-to-hand making it happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u77	A respectable president. I'm going to say a few words on the subject discussed here. First, it is, of course, a direct result of the tragic change made in the formation of the government, which is now changing the arrangement of the Council of Government, in that the prime minister's special interests were brought from other means of life and brought under his authority. Secular culture was defined, and here is even made up of the concept of the social civilization minister, who is then expected to be a special minister, different from the minister of non-ethnic culture, which is located in the Ministry of Education and Culture. This changes the role of prime minister in the administration order, no longer manager of the government, but directly responsible and directly involved in decisions in specific areas that are even competitive for financing matters in the fields of other ministers, with similar or similar issues. This, of course, should be equal in handling all cases because it is primarily intended for the administration of the State and harmony, according to the principle that we have created for over 100 years. This bill is also very special in that it is not enough to begin with. Instead, the laws that belong to the highest legal requirements are the legal issues that are special to the government. Prime Minister of the global intervention of public rights, of employment freedom, of individual and company property and of rural planning. This is done on an average without any material guidelines, for when you read the bill, you will first be confronted with the exorbitant and delicate definitions found in the bill and limited restrictions on the use of unregulated Ministerdom. In a way, when you look at the situation from above, you can say that with the bill it stands to hide the highest. The prime minister's authority to determine his own peace in individual parts of the community in some way according to his tastes, as there are rather little material guidelines on this matter. The only definition that holds in terms of the implementation of reservations in section 6 is section 3. depending on the laws of these measures, the reservation of protection is defined by a protection value that is protected by a minister's decision. So the minister will create the definition once the area is protected. If he chooses to protect the High Search Environment or just the High or Grens easily or anything else, he has decided that it is a protection area that meets the terms of the law. There is very little to be found in the bill regarding inhibition of the unreflinchable authority of a minister in this regard. That's kind of a reason to go over it specifically. For one thing, it says that rural society is desirable to appease buildings and neighborhoods for reasons of peace. That's right. But 5 mg. 7. it shows that a minister still evaluates whether an approved rural society is in line with the protection values of an area and has one - sided authority to deny such consent. So even if the case went through a rural government, received reviews from the local community, it's a minister who has caused it. Then comes what is even more surprising, which is the decision for the settlements. First of all, rural management is expected to reevaluate the reservation, in a different way, that it is not to be assigned to the Minja Institute to assess value based. Then it's 4 mg. This amazing warrant that a minister can also assign Iceland's Minja Institute to suggest that certain settlements, which, in the opinion of a secretary, have a national security value, become a national reservation. There are no material criteria for this, but this community does not have to meet any physical conditions in any other article; it just needs to have a secretary's opinion of national preservation. As defined in the bill, the maintenance value of the assessment of many values that may impact on preservation is based, such as artistic values, cultural values, environmental values, and origin. It's perfectly free food, it doesn't say anything about the importance of individual factors. A minister may assign a Minija Agency to suggest that certain settlements that he considers to be a maintenance value will be put into place. And then he takes it according to the fifth mg. Section 4. a decision to protect, based on the proposal of the local government or the Minjan Institute. Then you read the report. It says a word - out on the 4th. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: 4 mg. it provides permission for Ministers to take the initiative to preserve historical communities that, in the opinion of a minister, have national value and hide Iceland's Minja Institute to propose a proposal for its preservation. Since the initiative in such cases comes from a minister and the National Institute of Minjahs of Iceland has been commissioned to make a suggestion that the reservation should be marked, the Minjaus Office does not have to agree with the Minister's proposal -- ◯It is important to consult the local council for that proposal. Then comes the main phrase on the supreme governance of the Minister: Since there is a decision to destabilize a reservation in the hands of a minister, he is permitted to make a decision for such protection, even though Iceland's Minja Institute does not recommend such protection or take sides with it. In other words, the highest. A minister who has a special interest in home peace may decide to appease a house or an entire neighborhood. Even if Iceland's Minja Institute is opposed, even if the government is opposed to it, the Minister can still decide. According to the law, if the minister finds a beautiful neighborhood, take as an example a whole neighborhood, I named the High Search Environment earlier, you can take the Whale Search or something else, and be interested in peaceing it, he can just do it. There's nothing that a Mind Institute can do about it. According to the Law bill, she is required to make the suggestion, although she is merely one who disagrees with her, there is no reason for peace. She must make the suggestion to the minister, and then he can make a decision about the peace. The minister evaluates the proposals of the local government or the Minning Institute but is not limited to them, and he can recommend further protection in particulars that he does not consider them to be in accordance with the law's objective. And as I already have, the goals of the law are extremely vague. For example, in terms of the importance of consultation with rural society, I quote the report on the fact that there have been consultations with this bill, some meetings were held where a viewpoint was developed that has been sought to take into consideration ◯, but it is quite clear that the bill is not supported by the European Union of Iceland. Thus, it is very strange to go very far to deliver a minister on extremely weak professional grounds of a vast intervention in the affairs of rural affairs, on the rights and on the rights of the people. I think that the legislation of this kind, such a bill, in itself, can go through both sides of the board must make us think a little bit about which direction we are in professional practices in public administration. Do you really think it's okay for a minister to give free authority, completely without any objective support, for the intervention of civil rights? I would naturally ask: Was the Independence Party sleeping when it was taken care of by the Independence Party? What just happened there? Can any member of the Independence Party come up here and declare support for such a grand intervention in individual freedom and employment freedom without any material justification? I must describe by proponents of liberality, freedom of movement, and individual freedom within the Independence Party, for it is quite clear that none of them have been at the council meeting when this bill was adopted. There is no shortage of material limitations in this tremendous control program. I think it will be necessary to go back to Hrifla, if not beyond that, to find a parallel to the concept presented here for the superpowers of the state and unorthodox ministers against the common people of the country. Of course, to the next town, there is a history that the Independence Party has gone so far in the form of captivity that the Agency has taken him into it that he has completely forgotten to protect this fundamental rights. One thing I'd like to mention at the end of which I forgot, that nowhere in this bill of unregulated ministerhood is mentioned of a number of lawsuits. Therefore, the minister himself has no material restrictions on whether he will be at peace with any area or rural government that has to endure such abuse of the minister has no legal resources, there is no ruling committee, there is no professional career. So, at the highest. The prime minister gives himself undisputed authority to make single - handed decisions about peace within a town without any restrictions. While the Minja Society is completely against it, he still gets a suggestion on a table to himself that he can handle according to this, and rural government, citizens, citizens, has no resources to protect himself from the abuse of power. There is no legal way to find and no restrictions on the unreflecting authority of the minister. This is the way in which the government feels appropriate to offer us here in the 21st century. There must be a story to the next town.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u78	Mr. President. I'm just gonna take part in this discussion about the bill to set up a reservation on the settlements. I have to agree with those of my friends who have talked about a lot of things that have happened. In itself, the ideologies of what is underneath, protection in urban areas, are good, but the methodology is used that we do not like, many of them. Here's something I'd thought I'd do well. When you think about it, of course, it's based on the government contract, that's clear, that's where you can see, but as a former country official, I'm very worried about this intervention in local planning. I'm a member of a General and Education Committee, and the case has been referred to on the basis of the highest level. Prime Minister, or requested to do so. But I believe, in view of the fact that the planning body is being changed first and most not the cultural element, which, of course, belongs to a General and Education Committee, that the matter is more relevant to the committee, as many other factors do. I feel that the democratic process of rural government that comes with the provision of land, such as in organizational laws, is taken down considerably here, so I cannot support this situation as it happens. I know this from my own experience, from a country government job, that houses are controversial, or areas are controversial, street images, and so are similar. I agree that it is important to protect street photos and to keep them in my home country, both of which I have come to the structure and maintenance of such real estate, as well as to prevent real estate from simply equalizing the earth. So I care about protecting the settlement. These issues are often controversial, and we have seen that as you listen more and read the bill more doubts. I feel that public interest should be much more than we're used to, and especially when it comes to planning and implementing in the neighborhoods, or anywhere in the urban areas, and in places close to us, where it's some kind of old place, or we think it's a big thing, we're supposed to have something to say about it. We need and have done so by providing historical, regional, organizational, and organizational boundaries with which we have increased the social rights and rights of the local government to protect local characteristics. For example, in my district, I find much historical evidence in many parts of the world. I give name to Sufjörður and Sigludur and other places where there is a collection of old houses and dense old settlements that are important to preserve. The rural communities are to have the first and foremost right, but they should not, as it has been attributed, transfer this single hand to the Ministry. Unfortunately, it seems to be happening more and more frequently, and I have called attention to it in the Senate symposium what I think it is all over and around. It says here that the motive is, as I entered, in the government policy declaration, the reason for this bill. The point is that this appears to be because the minister is interested in it. We've got this under the budget, so you don't really understand the point. V.E.G. A minister did not agree with what took place early in the discussion today that the laws that had been in force on this, whether the memory protection or the organizational law, had survived, not as he would like to see it, and no doubt more of us. Of course, there is always a way to strengthen the laws that exist instead of reducing them and reducing them to their assignments, as to be done. I don't believe in any of these places that more things are meant to go through the same way, i.e. that authority is taken in this way by the rural communities. I agree that the arrival of rural governments, the public, of any kind of law, in any way, by all stages, should be strengthened, and there will be even fewer opinions, as this is often, not always, but matters of great interest. There are always some who have the homes that address each place, and they can go in either direction depending on where the minister wants to go. The picture may be tight, and it can be the key to sharpening it or what it is now. This too has been discussed and followed by taking this out of the democratic agency of the local community, one of the things to explain much better than it has to be done. I trust the committee will go over it, that such things will be put down so that no one will doubt which way to go. Evaluation of effects has been reported and at the highest rate. In the beginning, the minister spoke of the arrival of the European Union's partner that it is being done after each election to reduce the cost of the rural society. But no other way in which other comments were made by the local community has been made, since the European Union is specifically stated. How interesting it would have been to know what the comments were and should have been to draw them out, because if a minister does not agree with any approach, it is quite safe to draw them out in a report. Because he mentioned the impact of a foreign country, I believe that if we want to go that way, the committee that gets the case in the arms needs to get the comparative information on it. I think this team member's role is so strong. As I say, I am raised in a very historical environment, where I have a lot of old houses, some of which have walked in the re - creations, where old times have been raised with the help of the maintenance and approach of the Minenium after a great pioneers. As indicated in Article 4. (b) What will be considered in the next article? (b) What will be considered in the next article? ... withauthority of the President's permission: The purpose of these laws is to contribute to the protection of cultural memory and to ensure that European civilizations will be returned to future generations. Our culture is a sign of the nation's history, such as ancient, cultural, geographic, church artifacts and monuments, houses and other monuments, ships and boats, transportation instruments, arts and crops, as well as photos and other sources of the nation's cultural history. These laws also include cultural sites. These laws are to ensure the preservation of cultures in their own environment, facilitate access and introduction to the nation's culture and pay for their research. I think this will cover what's being done here. That's why I say that, in fact, it's just that the decision-making is being made, the decision-making thing. This is primarily about making the decision. This is shown about the builder in Article 4. to him there are houses and other monuments and individual items of those with cultural, scientific or artistic value, individual houses or parts of them, and houses and facilities, as well as apartments or cultural or occupations in urban or rural areas, housing and street photos, etc. These are not very old laws, they took effect on January 1, 2013. Over that is the highest. A prime minister makes his home slow. I don't think it's necessary to do things that way. I think it's the best. Ministers need to answer what I mentioned earlier, as in Article 9. that are to be replaced by organizational laws and adopt in these special laws. What's the top count? Since he mentioned in his talk and objected that he did not agree that the laws that are in effect work, did a minister not work? What is it he doesn't think it worked? Does he not trust to restore the laws that are in force? Or could this be because institutions such as the Minja Institutes, which came together, have not had enough money? Here, as most of us wills, was criticized for the wealthiest. Prime Minister for Protecting Cultures, on his own. In view of what happened, it is not unusual that when this is drawn into the Ministry in this way, people believe that they can develop political sensitivity to things rather than making community or public in the country, or in the relevant areas, it can be done in a certain way. I hope the minister has the answers on his hands, what he doesn't think he's working, and whether he doesn't think he can fix the laws under there, or if this is due to the absence of the funds, or if he doesn't believe that he or she has failed in his work to follow some course as the highest. Ministers comfort, or protect densely populated areas? That's one of the things I think we need to draw out, why this is done. The bill does not answer that question. If it goes to the General and Education Committee, because I see here one of the vice presidents of the Committee, I think it's one of the things we need to answer, and because the vice president has been sitting and listening to the discussion today and participating in it, there's a lot of really good questions that we need to ask. I just hope that the situation will be addressed to the environment and transport committee. It's not because I don't want to talk about it, as I say, I have personally participated in this kind of work, protecting houses and street photos, but it's not about the law that's under planning laws but not about the memory protection itself. I think we should have in mind a democratic process, professional evaluation, but not that the Minister alone makes decisions on such big issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u79	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a synopsis of national security policy for Iceland. On September 16, 2011, the General Assembly agreed to agree to the resolution of the current minister of foreign affairs, the Össur of Adranar Skarphéðinsson, to set up a Senate committee with representatives of all classes who were then at the General Assembly to make recommendations to foreign ministers on the tournament of national security policy for Iceland. The committee started work early in 2012 under the leadership of the day. paritaprevir The Bjarnadóttir of Valgerður and her proposal was made on February 20, 2014, along with the books each of the individual councils. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir and then foreign minister and other representatives on the committee for their contribution. The committee was signed during the last term and I would like to thank all who had access to her work, to members of the council and specialists who presented the committee for good cooperation. Safety concerns are currently being treated in Europe. A new chapter began in Europe's political history with an illegal incorporation into Russia in the Crimea a year ago. At the same time, the rise of the terrorist organization identified as Islamic states made European authorities aware that we need to pay much more attention to the safety of the continent. The proposal presented here takes into account these changes. But as important as it is, policy takes into account that it will soon be nine years since the defense team left Iceland and at the time of building up new knowledge and experience in the United States experts and the institutions of security and protection. So it's time to sharpen your lines and set the road to the future. Although more than a year has passed since the Council of Congress proposed - and has been changed in Europe's security at the time of the past - the proposals, however, are a solid basis for molding national security policies. The overall vision there is carefully planned for Iceland's needs. Governments are supremely responsible for the security of the cities. And now we stand at the turning point, that for the first time in the republican history, the Allied Council clears a national security policy. The course must be governed by a state of agreement, and it needs to be handled objectively and objectively. Before I go to the direction given to my proposal and to the guidelines it provides, I'd like to discuss only the threats and risks that are the basis of the proposal. The data we have considered are a benefit-risk report from 2009, a Senate report, an assessment of the State Marshal's office of the State for the threat of terrorism and the diagnosis of the Atlantic Community and its member countries. In the autumn of 2007, the minister of the cross-cutting task force was assigned to put up a risk assessment for Iceland and was submitted to the minister's report in March 2009. The assessment report considers global, social, and military risk factors. The security concept is defined in a collective way and the national security it provides. The risk assessment includes particularly 15 nonpriced risk factors. First of all, it is about potentially life threatening risks, i.e. Economic pressures, epidemics, natural disasters, wars, the use of weapons of mass destruction, and terrorism. Second, the sea is directed toward organized crime and man - made halls that undermine community security, individual security, and justice. Thirdly, risk factors for the safety of infrastructure, air and agriculture are discussed, i.e. Network security, energy security, civil safety, shipping and pollution, food and water safety, road safety and communications security. The results of the work group include 23 general guidelines for safety policies, which are called after the shape of clear national security policy based on the extended definition of safety. Although the risk assessment report is in many respects to a child of its time, it is our opinion that most of its factors still have a fine view. All the risk factors involved are once valid, but we have taken a special view of terrorism and the threat of war. A report by the Parliamentary Commission of February 2014 reports that Iceland enjoys stability and security, as well as the value of the marine environment around the country. The report does not present a direct or linear priority for risk factors and threats. It, however, explains the major dangers involved and uses a flexible approach based on three categories. In my recommendation here, there are threats and risk factors organized into the three categories made in the Senate report. One category contains the most likely hazards to be put in the light of practical management and financial resources. They are an environmental hazard or an accident as a result of growing trajectory in northern areas, Internet threats, and vandalism on the interior parts of society, and natural disasters. Group two presents threats that are more fundamental but still need full attention. They are organized crime, financial and economic security, food and food security, health security, epidemics and terrorism. A third category presents dangers that are unlikely to be involved here, but remember, on the other hand, that national sovereignty and independence in such a way would require action against them. There is a threat of war in that category. Last February the U.S. Marshal's office was updated by terrorism and other massive attacks. In this estimate, the risk level is set into four categories; low, moderate, and highest. The estimate shows that uncertainty about the threat of terrorism in Iceland and in other parts of the North countries is increasing. A high risk in Iceland is estimated to be moderate, an increase of one category from the previous assessment. Therefore, it is concluded that the possibility of terrorism cannot be excluded because of a state within the country or in the world. In accordance with this assessment, there is the threat of terrorism in another high-risk national security policy, which is an increase from the lowest category according to the Senate report. As far as the threat of war is concerned, we feel that it is limited to Iceland. This is based on analyses of the Atlantic and its member countries. Therefore, the threat of warfare is the lowest risk factor in national security. However, the development of events in our neighboring countries confirms the need to be vigilant in evaluating the threat of war, and we will remember in the months to come, and we will be particularly concerned about the need to increase the risk category of military threats. I would like to draw attention to the fact that events in the last weeks and months show that management needs to take into account threats, and rapid progress can change such assessments with little or no advance. This is part of the common branch minister of the northern national defences that appeared a few days ago. The policy presented here is built up in the same way as Iceland's Arctic policy adopted by the General of the Council in March 2011. Here are ten pointed points highlighted in a line of resolution that will be a guide to Iceland's security and protection in the years to come. According to the introduction to the proposal, national security is based on the commitments of the United Nations founding Convention and guided by the nation's baseline values: democracy and respect for justice and international law, human kindness and protection of human rights, equal to all and sustainable development, disarmament and peaceful solution to issues. It says that the core reason for policy management is Iceland's position as a small island nation that has neither authority nor will to control its military, secure and active cohesion with other international powers. The policy involves global, social, and military risk factors and lies in active foreign policy, public security, and social security with other countries. Iceland's national security will continue to rest on the strong support that has guaranteed the safety and defense of Iceland nearly all of its republics, its involvement in the Atlantic Community and its defence agreements against the United States. The safety interests of Iceland in the north are under way, both international cooperation and domestic management. As for the membership of the Atlantic Community, it will continue to be a key factor in Iceland's defences and the main site of Western cooperation involved in civil terms to promote its own safety and other alliances. As for the defence agreement, he will continue to ensure Iceland's defenses and continue to work on the development of cooperation on its basis, taking into account military threats, as well as other risk factors for mutual protection and security. Furthermore, policy emphasis is on developing and further developing the cooperation of the Northern countries and other regional interests and participation in international cooperation in that area. Regarding active foreign policy, it says that the general security of Iceland, with active international cooperation on the basis of international law, and with a peaceful solution to issues, disarmament, respect for human rights and legal rights, equal to sex, and direct conflict against inequities, hunger, and poverty. Regarding defense equipment, it says that there is a need to ensure that in the country there are defenses, equipment, ability and expertise to meet the challenges Iceland faces and to meet our international commitments. With reference to the Council of Congress not only for defence policy, but also for public safety and active foreign policy, it is clear that the government's policy in public defence and security, shaped by the Public Safety and Security Council, is part of the national security policy for Iceland. This also takes into account the broad definition of the safety profile based on the 2009 risk assessment report. The general security and security policy is in custody of the Minister of Homeland and is developing a new strategy on that stage in the final stage. Network safety issues are then made separately, which says that increasing the security of the network should be done through continued development of Iceland's performance and international cooperation. It has long been declared government policy that there is no nuclear weapon in Iceland, and it was adopted in the General Assembly in 1985. For further enunciation of this policy, the proposal suggests that Iceland and Iceland are at peace with nuclear weapons, with the aim of promoting disarmament and peace from the part of Iceland. It includes Icelandic and land cover, taking into account international commitments, such as the United Nations Sea Treaty, and commitments within institutions and contracts to which Iceland is involved. In view of the implementation of national security policies and government policy on many government agencies and agencies, it is necessary to establish effective consultation and coordination between public bodies. Therefore, it is recommended that the Council of National Security be set up as presided over by prime minister. There will be a special legislation on the establishment of the National Security Council that will further address its composition, role and organization as well as its decision to ensure the integration of national security and current Public Safety and Security Councils. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has consulted with the State Department on the legal contract of the legislature. The role of the National Security Council must be regularly assessed for security and protection status and monitoring for national security. I believe one of the early tasks of the Council should be to put on a new risk and fear - inspiring evaluation. It is then assumed in the proposal that the Council will deliver a less pronounced review of the policy than every five years. A principle that review can come from the Council itself, but its review can also be made by the Council. A respectable president. I would like to end my case by highlighting that Iceland's foreign policy and national security are based on Western cooperation and strong Atlantic ties, the involvement of the Atlantic Community, and the defence agreement with the United States. The growing defense work in northern countries is a cause for rejoicing and strengthens that foundation. Since the departure of the defense team, the Icelandic government has faced a new and important responsibility. We now contribute even more to the joint defense of the Atlantic Union through the air defense system, hostilities support by Community airspace and other forces coming here and by civil contributions for the actions of the Community. We emphasize that the alliance is fully alert and is ready to respond to any developments in the entire territory. In our case, this is particularly true in the North Atlantic, where Iceland is a major factor in the implementation of Community protection programmes. In terms of air protection, experience with this system has been successful and the implementation of security personnel has been successful. Since the beginning of watch in 2008, there have been nine controversies at twenty shifts, and at this time the U.S. Air Force is in the eighth time in Iceland. It should then be held that the defense agreement between Iceland and the United States is in full effect. On its basis is in the value of a U.S. Defense Programme which assumes that Iceland's defenses are ensured by mobile and force. This strategy is regularly reviewed in the context of the changed situation in the context of a partner, the responsibility for its implementation in the hands of the European Commission of the United States of Stutgart. As indicated in my suggestion, it is urgent that Iceland is in place of necessary protective equipment, can and expertise to meet the challenges we face. This tool is an integral part of a need to activate the protective plan. We need to do better so that we can maintain and strengthen the equipment that has been invested over the years. It is also important that Iceland's National Relations Service lives in business conditions that allow her to handle her police and surveillance duties, which also strengthens our cooperation with the United States. It was an important and satisfying step taken last summer when a contract was signed between the Ministry of State, the Ministry of State, the National Guard and the State Police Department's Office on Defense-related Projects where these institutions are entrusted with the implementation of certain aspects of the defense work by the Ministry of State. A respectable president. It is important that governments in Iceland meet the responsibility that the highest government obligation is to secure the security of their citizens. The proposal I recommend here is developed a policy that trusts the long - term national security of Iceland based on the international cooperation that ensures national defenses. As such, I suggest that the proposal be followed by this discussion referred to why. Foreign Affairs Committee
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u80	A respectable president. This is shown in comments with the suggestion that the present person is at the highest level. Minister of state and supreme. Secretary of State signed a contract in July 2014 in which the government police and Iceland's National Guard were assigned to conduct projects on the basis of a defense law. I wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of State whether he believes it might be dangerous in some way to mix a civil institution like the police and a military institution like the National Guard. I think it's military. The fact that the government police official's office, which is part of the community's inner defenses, is a little uncomfortable to me because if there is a conflict that puts up with defenses, you may begin to attack the state police, just as they first attack the military and military targets. In short, I am concerned that if there is a conflict, the police will become a military target. I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister has thought about it, or he may have some concerns about me in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u81	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the question. I'm not worried about this because as I know, it's perfectly clear that if there's an attack in Iceland our good and popular police have little to do. I can't imagine the police being defined by those who might want to attack Iceland as some kind of threat. We don't live with that strong police force, unfortunately, I'm going to let me tell you. The police and the National Guard are mainly civil institutions. But these are our tools, and these people are dealing with our foreign companions, the police are on the e.g. Information exchanges for Schengen and other such, the National Guard defends our territory and cooperates with e.g. The Norwegian or Norwegian Coast Guard and the U.S. Coast Guard, even part of their armies. In Iceland, with no military force, these civil institutions have taken over certain national defense projects, such as operation at Keflavík. Other responsibilities, such as those of the police, relate to e.g. A border guard and that kind of stuff at Iceland. All of this matters. I don't think it's like they're creating some kind of threat for these people, not at all. However, we must have in our own system someone who is dealing with the institutions that we are involved with, and these members do. We signed these agreements in order to have a clear identification of their role, and as a result, there is a clear distinction between the State Ministry and the Ministry of State so that we are not mixed up with different things. So I agree with what. A senator that if there was some misunderstanding or danger of some confusion, that would not be good. But that's not the way it is today. We have explained the role of each individual. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u82	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I see we need more time to discuss this completely, but I have to say, as it is, I still have these concerns. Now I speak Icelandic, and when I read this, it seems to me that there is a civil institution assigned to tasks normally part of the military authorities in other countries with an army. If I can understand it this way, I'm very concerned that someone who doesn't speak Icelandic - and I allow myself to claim that there are soldiers and terrorists in a world that don't have my intelligence, I'm going to let myself get the arrogance - it's also wrong. And I'm also concerned that if military projects are going to civil institutions in general, then with some kind of military attitude. There may be more discussion and more at home in discussions about police, good and good, as if I can't expect to be the highest. Secretary of State will answer questions about legal rights as such. But it underscores a little bit of the problem I'm afraid of at least, that if any military project belonging to the police, it will lead to a conflict, that the police are viewed as a military target or at least some particular duty or project by the police have military value. I'm still worried about it, but I expect we'll need more time than we'll get to talk about it altogether. But I think it's important that we keep in mind that this separation must be as clear as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u83	A respectable president. I think it's unnecessary concern. A senator who agrees with what he said, it is necessary to discuss this. I strongly suggest that this be done on the Foreign Affairs Committee when the case arrives. But, of course, it's mostly because we have no army in Iceland, which pleases us, and we don't want an army. Therefore, if we want to secure the security of our citizens, we need to assign certain organizations to play a role in this. But, of course, I agree with the senator that this must be considered and suggested that this be done on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u84	President. It is a pleasure to see this subject presented here. I wanted to place special emphasis on nuclear security and peace descriptions, but I also drew attention to the fact that I am giving a little warning about putting into this document what is defined as a threat of terrorism. In view of the wording for nuclear peace, I would like to direct a question to the highest degree. Secretary of State because I've been very happy with what's in Team 9. To Iceland and the Icelandic land weekend is a peace-bought for nuclear weapons, taking into account international commitments, I'd like to ask what that means exactly, if ever. A minister of foreign affairs can explain this to us. I think it's a significant weakness in this direction. Then, according to the following article, the aim of promoting disarmament and peace of Iceland on the part of This will be further discussed in the document below: It has long been declared the policy of the Icelandic government that there is no nuclear weapon in Iceland. This conclusion was adopted at the General Assembly in 1985. As a result of this proposal, the Allied Council concluded that Iceland and Iceland are at peace with nuclear weapons in the eyes of promoting disarmament and peace by the part of Iceland. It includes Icelandic and land cover, taking into account international commitments, such as the United Nations Sea Treaty, and commitments within the institutions and contracts to which Iceland is involved. I feel that it is very important to get more clearly what this means. We discussed this quite a bit on the committee, I was on the committee for the movement during the last term, but I don't think this landing is clear enough. I rejoice that this is what the government here stands for: The government will speak for this view on a global scale and in two - sided relations with other countries. Governments will further promote disarmament and peace. What I would like to see and maybe get more information on, and that will show up in the work of the Foreign Affairs Committee is a further explanation of how we are going to contribute to all the good goals here in this direction. Step 5 says: ▪ To ensure the global security of Iceland's integrated international cooperation and peaceful solution to issues, disarmament, respect for human rights and rights, sexual equality, and the struggle against inequities, hunger, and poverty guided. These are big, noble goals that I miss a bit of seeing in this direction a better outline of how we're going to do this. As mentioned at the outset, I'm a special amateur for Iceland's Internet security. We've got an institution, the World Health Organization on Information and Expression Freedom, to put together the situation on Iceland's Internet Security. This was actually a quick review of conditions and suggestions for the National Security Committee. The report can be obtained on the Agency's website, but the report made Smári Mccarthy and Herbert Snorrason. The report offers some suggestions for the handling and proper response of the governments. The situation of the country's affairs, such as the security of its institutions, monitoring and listening to communications, general monitoring of communications, military development of the Internet, what is the service denial and other factors. This is very detailed and well summarised, although it is done quickly. That's where even the two of them come from. until, by permission of the President: ▪ The right response of the government would include the safety of all the parts of the network within its borders (independent purpose or management of their networks), as well as all the parts of the network that deal with them. As a result, Iceland's network of information and networks is the whole network but the same with other countries. To meet this challenge, it would be reasonable to finance various projects in order to improve the overall security of the system. You can use e.g.Unable to connect to POP Reducing free software. It would not be appropriate for governments to finance a review of special property software, which should depend on the commitment of the software developer. This is very important and has been identified after this has been compiled, this report, that many enterprises since e.g. The United States has authorized a so - called back door to its base for U.S. authorities. So it's very important that it be, and I hope so, I don't know if it's going to be. Minister has read the report and the tips contained in it, but this is an online security report for Iceland. I suggest that in the implementation of this national security policy, the details and the information that have been available in the wake of the informer that Snowden has worn on the table and in some way are the suggestions in this IMMI program of itss; for it was really not until Snowden brought his information to--Well, I Slugg, President,--providens some sens. But I think it's very important that the Minister--it's such a short time you've got to discuss this, it's such a big deal--I suggest the Minister consult the report. When I finish my talk, he can have my copy. I'd like to now that I've already read my booking on these security issues and the world we live in today, but my booking reads like this: The ability to protect government and government immunity as well as the privacy of citizens of the state is based on the cornerstones of democracy. Modern technology has enabled the authorities in other countries to collect the digital data of all Icelanders in an invasion of the republic's constitution. It is clear, therefore, that the Icelandic government needs to develop policies in cooperation with international institutions and organizations that are specialized in ensuring digital privacy across borders to ensure national security in Iceland. It seems so fun to me that I am building a conclusion for the International Parliaments Union that will come for the payment of the autumn Council of the International Parliament, and this proposal is based on exactly what I mentioned in my book and in it will be suggestions that both measures that governments can take to ensure this security of their citizens and governments as well as in international partnerships. I hope we will develop it in our worldwide work, which concludes on - well, as it is agreed that it will be established here at the council, which is not present today. We have no reason to conclude with other nations in various international activities, and all too little of this comes into an international policy, something I think we need to deal with. There are a lot of good things in this course, and it was interesting to go a little deep into these matters at the time when we were going over it under a strong control of our hearts. paritaprevir A Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir daughter who could be a potential threat. But I would have liked to see in point five that it would also be the Internet security because it is a field in which we have already seen ourselves as experts and to make use of the special situation that we already have in that area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u85	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Actually, I'm gonna be a little bit off tonight, but the more I'm ready for the Ministry to come to the State Department meeting and review the case there. I agree with what. A senator that we need to put the focus on these new threats like Internet security and other, and I gladly admit that I know much less about it than I do. A senator and her companions, but this is clearly the threat we have to face. In the 5th past, it is true, it is very broad, and in itself it is policy-making. In fact, we are not pointing out any individual means or solutions or in this regard. We know that if the good policy we put forth here would be worthy, it would cost a lot of billions of lives if we were to implement all of this, we will have to expect to set priorities. But we're working hard on these things today, e.g. Through the UN institutions, through development cooperation, and through the 5th through the 5th post. A senator mentioned it. Since we're talking about nuclear energy, it's perfectly clear - I think we all agree on it -- that we don't want Iceland to have nuclear weapons stored, that they're gonna be located here, and I'm sure it's also going to apply to the sea around the country. We cannot, for example, ban warships to sail for Icelandic waters if they have a peaceful purpose, if they are sailing between places, even though there are nuclear weapons. For example, this is because of the marine covenant. The statement, I don't minimize what we do by saying that in Iceland there will not be a nuclear weapon, that we are opposed, and that Congress resolution since 1985 is an enormously important political, important message for Iceland in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u86	President. Thank you so much for the answers. I have used myself considerably in the field of nuclear disarmament in international work, I am a member of the PAND, and a considerable amount of work has been done for the International Parliament Union in connection with it. During the last two conventions there, there has been extensive coverage of nuclear weapons and nuclear disarmament. I agree that it is very important to have a clear, clear policy and clear policy, and the way the New Zealand people handled their affairs, they have also been very active in PaNT. I wondered, " Why are they able to do what they do, but not regarding a clear policy as to what may be traveling around them? ' What I'm worried about is where we are in the world. If there was an accident caused by nuclear weapons in our area, I wondered, " How could I respond to such a catastrophe? ' I was looking at a very remarkable documentary, entitled The Man Who Saved the World, which deals with the decision of one Russian army officer not to react to what looked like to be an attack but was a computer error for many years ago. It takes so little to get away with the possibility of an extremely big accident. Therefore, I am deeply concerned that, on the basis of international agreements, we may still be allowed to have weapons of this kind pass through our territory. Is there anything we can do to change that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u87	A respectable president. I don't trust myself to answer it here and now whether there's anything we can do to change this. But we can think only more about it if we are merely looking at an accident in our territory, for example, an oil accident, or a nuclear accident. As the ocean currents are around Iceland, this would likely have serious consequences for us and even for our neighbors as well. That's why I think that one of the most important things we do is to talk about it and fight for disarmament, that humans stop using nuclear weapons. Whether it is a dream or not - conditions in the world today are such that, sadly, more people who want it seem to have it than to reduce it. We're still fighting for it, reminding ourselves of the story that Iceland has regarding the steps we took here at the summit in the old days and how we've always spoken for it. We are to emphasize peace. We are to emphasize that humans solve debates with speech, will not resort to the terrible weapons of nuclear weapons, or in general with weapons. But we have to do all of this from the sources we have and go as far as we can. I cannot answer the question of how far we can go to stop and ban, but at least we must always respect international and international treaties. It is our strongest weapon in our business dealings to help others point out that we are on international treaties and international rights and laws. Since we are a nation without war and are no bigger than this, with much natural resources and great interests, we must emphasize that they are covenants and laws of the United Nations and that we share in the fort and to be respected. That's our strongest message. Politically speaking, we should be absolutely clear that Iceland does not have nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u88	A respectable president. During the early years of the republic and some time afterward, there was a deep - seated dispute over foreign affairs, particularly in defenses and politics for decades. There were natural changes in Western relations with countries in East and Central Europe in the fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989, but it took more than 20 years for the basis to develop in this country to propose a proposal to order a committee to make proposal for national security policy for Iceland that all members of Congress should be involved. Such a suggestion, however, made. The minister of the State, Össur Skarphéðinsson, was approved in September 2011, as I recall. It was a very enjoyable and valuable lesson for me that I was given the responsibility of directing this committee's work, and I think it is safe to say that I was a member of the Committee. It was clear that we all wanted to make a deal, but we couldn't, more honored President, finish our work by elections 2013 and we couldn't put the dot over the i-pet then. That is why I want to express my special joy at the highest. The minister of the State of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson made it clear that members of the committee agree to complete the project, and they gave the committee the job to the highest level. The Minister of February 2014. And I would like to repeat that it was not by no means by default that it would be formally completed and returned, although all work was done more and less before the election, so I would like to reiterate my joy by going to the highest level. Minister of this matter. The proposal presented by the minister now builds more and more on the work of this council committee. In our work we defined national security as it had been in the risk assessment report taken several years earlier for the State Department of State and had been returned to a 2007 commission by the Directorship of Ingimundarson Ingundsson. It included global, social, and military risk factors. Therefore, the overall security profile and national security were defined according to that, and the issues classified under foreign and internal issues will become more intertwined and the traditional terms between civil and military safety will become increasingly unclear. It was introduced earlier today and one of the challenges we must face is just how we can integrate our organizations in this regard and how our civil institutions can work with military institutions which, as I will come to a later in my case, are inevitable. Of course, the main points on the work of the Committee that worked as a national security policy differed, but we emphasized the importance of achieving a greater solidarity in all of these matters. And while someone I may allow myself to call out hard-liners on each wing, the policy is not clear enough and not hard enough, and I think that it is important that we have a common basis for working on it, and I think that conflict and big talk in these materials are both unnecessary and useless. I'd like to mention some of the things that are going on, and my thoughts are about them in this context when we were working on this. First, I'd like to mention the cooperation in the north, but as we all know, there's been a huge change in every locality there. Although such trends may not be as fast as many expect, sailing has increased. But there are great challenges, and we have cooperated with other countries, e.g. for monitoring and saving. I think it's going to be two years since there was a lot of practice we shared in off the eastern coast of Greenland. This practice revealed that if we had an accident there that we were going to be involved in saving, we are the members of an army. If the British send someone to rescue us, and if Norse send any, they'll send a warship. Therefore, it is necessary for our civil institutions to know and work with armies that do anything different from civil institutions. It is of importance in that, I believe I am, that our civil institutions retain their characteristics and are not transformed into a small army. But we also need to realize that it is necessary to cooperate with such sources. Regarding the position in the North, I often thought about it when we were working on it that it had been and that there's a lot of expectations about opportunities for changes in the North, economic opportunities. But I think maybe there's just one thing about security that people don't have too much expectations in those things because we've done a little flat, Icelandic people, to have economic expectations that have not been tolerated before. I think we should stay on earth with the expectation of opportunities that the changes in the North can give us. A respectable president. In these proposals, in the traditional defenses and safety issues, the intake of NATO and its defense agreements to the United States continues to support and further develop international cooperation on security and defences and other regional interests and involvements in that area. I think it's very important to stress this cooperation because, while the deal with the United States is, of course, one of the pillars of our policy, I think it's important that we expand and increase our cooperation with other neighbors. For example, international cooperation has increased, and we have open agreements or good cooperation with both the British and the French. I want one too, just like the other. A senator before me, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, describes a particularly pleasant memory of our being at peace with nuclear weapons. In fact, she wondered what it meant to take into account the international commitments. I think keeping this in is a cautionary matter. I think it's very important that there's one of our ten points in our policy and that we want to be at peace with nuclear weapons. And I also think it's important that there's a different policy, and I think we should stress that wherever we can try to speak for disarmament. Though we are a small country, this does not mean that we are not listening, that what we say may not be heard. So wherever we can speak, there is disarmament and peace. Now I'm running out of time, but I especially wanted to mention the National Security Council, which the Foreign Secretary of State claims to have a bill to establish. I think it's very important, but that's exactly one of the challenges of this new national security policy how Icelandic institutions, which may be seen under different departments work together. It is of utmost importance that there will be a system that will be successful if some specific measures are to be taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. That's exactly what I want to hear. A senator wanted to talk about, i.e. A national security agency, the role of such an institution, the assignment it would be, and what it would be like. A senator imagined that such an institution would last for a long time, I mean, for the next decade.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u90	A respectable president. The committee I was on may not have put down the direct tasks of such an institution. We wondered, " Could this be convenient?'But also, that the different agencies of the public system meet together and meet regularly. When we were in this discussion, the eruption of Eyjafjörður had not and since then, since we were discussing it some year ago, we have become much more aware of coming and reacting if there is a threat from some volcano here. But whatever the threat, there has to be some system about who's coming together and what to do. Therefore, it is of great importance that such a contract that the Minister spoke of earlier, which has been made between the Ministry of State and the State Department of State and the Police and National Affairs, exists and that these people will be met regularly, so if anything happens, everyone will know where to go and what to do. This is a real challenge, it's a real challenge for the Icelandic government because it's also one of the things we've been able to do in the work we were in, it's in how much towers the Icelandic administration is; it's under the State Department, it's under the State Department, it's under the Department of State, it's under the Department of Agriculture, as if big walls were between. Reaching a system is a real challenge so that it can work together. [[The president calls.]] But I heard from the highest. Ministers are not telling us what the plan is to submit in the National Security Council bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u91	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I can see now that there is a national security Council I've been meaning to say, not a national security agency, but a driving force. A senator responded in harmony with the National Security Council, so it's fine. I wondered how such an institution could function in the most transparent manner. Now, it is important that we discuss and decide something about all these matters, but I think it is important in all this discussion that we are not blind to the fact that there are certain dangers of defense agencies themselves in all countries. They need authority, they need to collect information, they have to do all sorts of things we would never hide institutions from, unless the threat is very serious or the importance of enormous interests is at stake. I always think it's important that we take care of ourselves and figure out exactly what we're going to do in security. From the seriousness of my situation, I don't withdraw the world's affairs today, they're very serious, but I wonder whether such a national security Council or anything else, but how the National Security Council works, or something like that, I think they're upset about. A senator's argument is very clear - may be that it is clear what is right and especially to reduce public suspicion of such advice and institutions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u92	A respectable president. I have viewed such advice as a safety valve so that people would already have realized that if there were any threat to what we were going to do, there would be a plan, and it should be known to everyone. I don't suppose such a security Council would work openly, but I mean, we may also be careful not to be too afraid of winning things. I just agree with what. A member of the body of elders on the matter of defense or national security or of such matters may involve dangers, but we must also look at them, as it may be good for us to have them if anything happens. And we just have to be on our toes and make such a string of rules that there won't be any lip. That's exactly what I'm saying we're going to be an armyless nation. That's a basic point. But we can't ignore it if, for example, there are sea accidents here outside or with the Greenlandians, then there are armies coming from the surrounding nations that we would work with. And our institutions must be able to work with them too. But they must not become armies at all, but this is a challenge. What a challenge it is to be a small, warless nation! But we will stay that way, and then we will not be able to say: We will not have national security advice or we will not have some work to do. The projects have to be carried out. And our challenge is to do so so that these civil organizations will remain civil and will not become an army. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u93	A respectable president. One basic obligation to each State is to ensure national and national security. It's called national security. What does that mean? It refers to security from threats to citizens, governments and infrastructure of society, and it may be a major cause of mass damage, whether by human or external threats or by natural disasters. V.E.G. In 2012 the local minister of foreign ministers of Össur Skarphéðinsson appointed ten senators to work out proposals for national security for Iceland on the basis of the General Assembly resolution and to appoint ministers before him. paritaprevir Made Bjarnadóttir's daughter head of the Committee. The committee completed a material discussion in March 2013, but committees could not be completed formally before elections at the end of April. New U.S.A. The minister of foreign affairs then accepted the case by Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, who is now making progress in this important body of Congress here today. A respectable president. In my speech, I will quote comments with the highest proposal. Secretary of State to conspire about national security policy for Iceland. In view of the development in the European environment of safety in the past 12 months, there has been an urgent need to reevaluate the need to reevaluate the use of this strategy. Its report is based on analyses of the Atlantic and its member countries and is considered a limited risk of northern military threat. However, the development of events in neighboring Iceland confirms the need to be vigilant in assessing military threats and to ensure effective mechanisms and protection to protect national security. In view of the circumstances at regular risk assessment, particular attention should be given to the need to increase the risk categories due to the threat of war. During his recent visit to the country, the director - general of NATO, Jens, Stoltenberg, told him at a meeting. The Allied Department of State of State of the Atlantic has all the tools, but it was no way to say whether the situation in Russia had been created against its neighbors by the illegal indentation of Crimea and military operations in Ukraine would be spread. NATO is in a stand-by-rate position and has added very much of its equipment, e.g. In the Baltic States. A respectable president. Terrorism is a threat that needs full attention here and elsewhere, especially in the light of recent acts of terrorism in our neighboring countries. An updated estimate by the State Marshal's office since February shows that there is increasing uncertainty about the threat of terrorism in Iceland and in other countries. A high risk in Iceland is estimated to be moderate, an increase of one category from the previous assessment. According to this, terrorism cannot be ruled out. It is of utmost importance that my judgment on the national security of Iceland and on their well - being. The need for constant vigilance is in this regard. I believe that the work that has been done is very important and it will continue, will be agreed by the Parliament's decision, and I strongly urge it to do so. It requires a clear, positive perspective and an overview of safety interests, and it is available in many places. These include the importance of our country in the context of the north, but the importance of that region has increased dramatically in recent years. This trend can be expected to continue. North lands are a vastly broad area in ecology, economic, political, and security. The rise in shipping out of the impacts of climatic changes in the North, both trade ships and cruises related to oil and gas processing and the implementation of other minerals calls for the attention of the Icelandic government to the new safety challenges. Iceland's domain is very important in this part of the world, and it is important that governments ensure the leadership of our Icelanders, even though we are a small nation, of influence on future development in the region. In Iceland it has been considered that an international rescue and response centre will be established using the construction and equipment available here, e.g. At Keflavík Airport. That's a very important thing. The largest environmental threat in Iceland is related to an increase in economic impacts, i.e. Aquifers. If large quantities of oil in the North Sea could mark our environment for a long time, since oil decays very slowly and it could be very difficult to clean up because of bad circumstances and darkness, etc. and animal life would be seriously damaged. Therefore, it is urgent that the Icelandic government be alert so that oil and gas transport as well as transport of other hazardous substances do not compromise marine life and national interests. The same applies to the traffic of shopping ships and cruises in the area where ship management may not know the location well enough, but Iceland has a wide range of experience and expertise in this language, which is important for communication at a international level. A respectable president. It must be ensured that the Atlantic Community and its Member States have the necessary knowledge of the situation in Iceland and the marine environment around the country. Air space control of the Community and joint exercise, including in search of and rescue, help to ensure the vigilance and ability of their ability to react in the territory. They will be helped to focus on the scene of the Atlantic Community in cooperation with the United States and other neighboring countries of Iceland, as noted in comments to the Senate arrangement for this. National security and defense cooperation have increased substantially over the past few years, and it's fine. The North countries highlight the strong common values associated with them. The cornerstones of national foreign policy are respecting international law on human rights, equality and sustainable development. The countries, if desired, will come to each other's aid if any of them are threatened by natural threats or threats of man, Internet threats, or terrorism. In February 2014, the Foreign Ministers decided to strengthen normatic cooperation further by developing, maintaining, and using their ability to react in an even more efficient way, including ... witha common exercise. A respectable president. For national security and national security it is important to protect the privacy of Icelandic citizens where possible. The integration of Internet security policies as well as its implementation requires extensive and close cooperation with international institutions and organizations that specialize in providing digital privacy across borders. It is then urgent to ensure cooperation with other countries, and in this context the northern nations have greatly extended their cooperation. Finally, a few words on the proposed National Security Council. In view of the implementation of national security and government policies in terms of a large number of government agencies and institutions, it is necessary to establish effective consultation and coordination. To this end, the Council of Congress suggests that the Council of National Security will be set up as presided over by the prime minister. That's a good suggestion. The role of the National Security Council of Iceland has to evaluate the state and outlook of security and to monitor national security. What is stated here is a definite support to the controversy of this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u94	Mr. President. We will discuss a proposal for a resolution on national security policy for Iceland. I came by a moment to prepare this job when I became a member of the Senate Committee, which prepared for the ultimate proposal. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has now submitted, so I'm slightly obliged. First, I'd like to say, I'd like others to. The members of the council here agree that it is very important that we increase the security and national security concept that was not least planned for this work together, i.e. trying to achieve a complete analysis of what are the major threats to the safety of the Icelanders. It is interesting to consider the proposals of the Committee that tried to sort out the worst threats to the security of the Icelanders, but the committee attacked trying to sort out different factors. The first category at the Committee established the dangers the committee felt should be put in the light of practical management and financial resources. It can be found in a report by the Commission on Environment or Accidents due to increased northern activities, Internet threats and damage to society's infrastructure and natural disasters. Group two of the committee's report contained threats, which the committee set below but still needs full attention. There you can find organized crime, financial and economic security, food and food security, health security and epidemics. A third category contains dangers in a report by the Committee that is unlikely to be involved here, but remember that national sovereignty and independence are in such a way that measures needed to be taken against them. There you can find military threat and terrorism. Proposition of the highest order. Thus, a minister of terrorism has been brought up to support two groups, referring to a unstable international situation. What I would have wanted to see differently is that then, in the proposal itself, there are ten numbered teams in which national security policy is said to include the following emphasis. That's as good as I can see that the traditional security and protection team involved in warfare and terrorism is nearly half of the ten targets, i.e. to continue Iceland's involvement in the Atlantic Community will remain a key factor in the protection of Iceland and the main centre of Western cooperation, that Iceland's defense agreement ensures that Iceland's defenses, continue to work on the development of cooperation on the basis of the contract, which will be taken into account by military threats, to promote and further develop the Norwegian cooperation on security and defences and other neighboring activities. Then there is defense, equipment, ability, and expertise. I wondered about creating a natural problem, which we all must be very aware of at the times in which we live, the times of climate change in which we look forward to an increased extreme in the weather, for example, that it is actually being done by the government's policy of public defence and security, is part of the national security policy for Iceland. It's still part of our first category, and it's also made up of the highest degree of proposals. Minister and I would have thought we should have looked into this. That's what nations are doing, that's what cities are doing, they're setting a policy to deal with the dangers of increasing weather and climate change. I don't feel like I see the threat here in the first category. I don't feel that I can see it reflected in these ten priorities, for example. True, Internet security is discussed, and I find it positive, for it is clear that there is a growing threat. However, I feel that I do not see the most reflected evidence to make what is needed to cope with a worldwide health problem. We saw, for example, that when the Ebola epidemic raged as hard as it was in Africa, many people questioned that we were in a position to deal with it if such a case was brought to Iceland. So I think we need to be much more aware of these factors, it should be the basic thought that marks this course. Of course, I'd like to use this opportunity to celebrate particularly the ninth point of this ten, which is Iceland and Iceland's land cover is at peace for nuclear weapons taking into account international commitments in an effort to promote disarmament and peace of Iceland. I also take a silent note to say that I would like to see it placed in the law. We have an approved resolution, we have a declaration of the overwhelmingly part of our country's rural society that they want to be without nuclear weapons and that by establishing it in a law, we would be taking decisive steps that would be taken into the world's disarmament. Just like the highest. Minister has now provided a bill to legalize a cluster bomb contract, I hope I can see a bill that we're reporting a non-terrestrial region. That would be a big step forward. It is only a short time to discuss such a big matter, but we will have an opportunity to discuss it at ease. A foreign press committee, but let's ask ourselves, " What are these threats?'And because the committee came to this conclusion, which I think needs to be made better in this proposal. Here, too, it is to establish national security, and if we read the ten highlights and say who should sit there, we might primarily be experts in what we can call traditional defenses. There's going to be a bill on this, but I'd appreciate it if we were to put down the National Security Council that reflects the wide vision, that's exactly what we should have Internet security experts, climate experts, natural disasters experts, that's the people who should order our national security Council in view of the threats we've put down here and try to identify. We should have a surgeon there to cope with health risks. So I think it's very important that we wonder about it, because this is one of the key issues in policy, that this advice will be established, what we're going to do with it. It's supposed to be some kind of traditional defense agency, such as a dog. Gunnarsson Or is this supposed to be a national security Council that takes into account the viewpoints expressed in a report that this policy should be based on reasons other than the traditional military and defences we have seen so far in our discussion? So I would have liked to see the suggestion further, further into the points that everyone agrees on, both the highest. Ministers and committees, to be number one. I don't feel like I see it at these ten points. Finally, I would like to remind you of the study of the representative of the left movement ◯ green supply, the one standing here and the other. A former U.S. Senator Þór Sigurðsson proposed. It says, by permission of the president: The left-over policies of Iceland in national security, a policy that takes into account the changing international situation. The current suggestions are basically based on this changed situation. Instead of being limited to government, military, military, or national threats, as in the Cold War, security issues have been expanded with the intention of extending over a new threat to the United States, i.e. Global or transnational, social and human risk factors, such as organized crime, terrorism, economic crisis, illegal population transport, mansal, food security, natural disasters, epidemics, environmental threats, and telecommunications, Internet and energy security. The left movement ◯ green offer agrees with this approach, and it is especially delighted that the Commission has a proposal for Iceland to be at peace with nuclear weapons and to seek ways to achieve such international peace descriptions. However, the left movement ◯ green supply suggests that the emphasis on involvement in the Atlantic Community and participation amongst its members is in force. In air space control, coherence with the wide approach to national security policy in other ways. It is clear policy that Iceland is a military country, and is out of military alliances, but rather expands its involvement in UN institutions, as well as in institutions or organizations such as the European Council and the European Commission and the European Community. Therefore, WG members of the Committee do not support the proposals of the Commission and/or lead from Iceland's involvement to the Atlantic Community, but support the other aspects. I want to use these last 30 seconds to say that if we are going to pursue world peace, it is also important that we contribute and speak for peaceful ways and solutions wherever we can and whenever possible. It is not a peaceful world in which hundreds of refugees are drowning in the Mediterranean Sea, and we are expected to contribute to this refugee stream by promoting peaceful solutions at home, in countries where these refugees come from, by contributing to our lifesaving activities, as we have been doing, and by continuing to do so. The world's greatest threat to world peace, during the same time, is growing inexorable parts of the world between and within the world, just as we look at Africa, the Middle East. We are to look for ways to do good, and small things can do much to say. [[The president calls.]] By doing so, we are adding the scales to the safer world for everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u95	A respectable president. Just to correct one thing that has been shown in the conversation with more people than what is. paritaprevir Katrin, Katrín's Jakobsdóttir: A national security agency is not being reinvestled, so it is clear. National Security Council is primarily a guide to all the members who need to come to the defenses of the country and enter them at the same time, those who work on our own defenses, our public defences, and all of it. I'm just gonna explain right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u96	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A minister for underlining this, and I wanted to say first, by reading these ten points, you might think that the National Security Council should focus primarily on what we can call a traditional military and protective case. I agree, however, with the highest. Minister said here now, i.e. That national security advice has to be about this precisely, then it has to be about these first-class threats. Information needs to be very effective in the information and communication process. I hear what's at the highest. Minister says, he underscores his understanding of this. We will likely receive a national security bill within the next few months or months. Then I want to reiterate that it is very important that its composition is reflected in the categories behind these proposals and the importance of these groups, so that the combination reflects the order of importance that has first been placed on a committee and a minister actually agrees with its proposal, so we are looking there at experts in areas of nature and climate change and much more than many others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u97	A respectable president. On page 18. 16 This proposal reviews the ideas behind the National Security Council. I'm going to say that even though the emphasis on these ten points is quite a factor. A senator here calls off defenses, military defenses, or anything like that, but mine doesn't know anything unusual. Of course, having such a thing in order is a big part of our national security and protection. We also don't forget that we have public security, and we have it somewhere else, and then we're linked to this strategy or the policy we have here, as the text shows. National Security Council would be the kind of advice that would coordinate and coordinate the internal security, the outer security, etc. Of course, we will discuss how this counsel will be arranged, but it is decided here that it will be under the leading prime minister at any given time, which, of course, plays a key role when it comes to the administration of the country and all of that. Who's sitting there, what's gonna be a lot of people, etc. is just a discussion we need to go through. Somewhere in the process, somewhere behind, or whatever you can see this, these experts will be agggravating. A senator is talking about. And it will not be just experts who are interested in warfare or anything like that, not at all. Indeed, it is vital that we choose the experts who know about nature, who know about Internet security, and all of that. This is certainly not to be understood by the fact that national security advice should be dealing solely with the threat of warfare or something like that. It's still working on the other job we're doing in this room, the P.R. and the Security Council and all of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u98	Mr. President. It's hard to discuss such a huge matter. But most of all, I want to use my short time here to say that it can be difficult to integrate knowledge and perspective on economic security, nature's problem, conventional defense mechanisms, which I call, and then we come to food and food security, health security. I think we're going to be talking about it here at the Generals, and I guess we're going to find out also within the Ministry, how this kind of advice would work, we're going to figure it out. How different such knowledge should be! Perhaps, as I say, most would not have imagined in 2008 that economic issues could be national security, for example. But I certainly think that everyone who lived that crash realized that the security of the country was really threatened. Here I think of waiting for a complicated solution: How should different viewpoints be summed up so that all of these things get the attention they need?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u99	V.E.G. President. We're here to address a proposal for a resolution on national security policy for Iceland. As indicated by the conclusion of comments, the aim is for national security to be defined in the most widely distributed way and to take into account global, social, and military risk factors and to include active foreign policy, public security, and protective cooperation with other countries. I must tell you at the beginning of my speech that I am a little split in my position on the proposal as the highest. The minister of foreign affairs puts forward here because I strongly agree with some points but strongly disagree with others. However, I greatly appreciate the work of a transnational committee who served during the last term and produced a report at the end of this report. I deeply appreciate the fact that men sat down and tried to come together for the details that we could join together on. Like a snooze. paritaprevir Bjarnadóttir said earlier, there may be fanatics on both ends of political spectrometers who can't deal with everything, and I probably have to accept that I belong to that group. National Security Policy includes ten teams or focus, mainly those that include military-related factors that I'm setting up with a question mark of being part of Iceland's national security policy. In fact, I think that in some cases they may simply be more likely to threaten our national security than to ensure that. In this regard, I would like to mention to form a member of Iceland at the Atlantic Community. Then I'd like to mention the fourth point where, in the first part of the sentence, we're talking about developing and developing a further North American cooperation on security and prevention, but I'm a little bit worried that we're moving in more cooperation in the military field with other countries of the North countries. I agree, however, with the latter part of the sentence, which speaks of another neighboring organization that is bowing to regional interests and sharing in the worldwide work in that area. So there are points I'm putting on question marks, but then there are other points that I consider immensely important to our national security of Iceland and that we need to put on a very large amount of focus. There I can mention the security interests of Iceland in the North, which is this point No. 1, as well as that Iceland is at peace with nuclear weapons. Now it's natural, so nuclear weapons do not respect borders, so I think it's as great as I do that the emphasis on peace light is in here. I think it's very important to discuss this point with the "No" team. 5, which is to ensure the wide security of Iceland's active international cooperation on the basis of international law and with a peaceful solution to issues, disarmament and respect for human rights and rights, equality of the sexes and the struggles against inequities, hunger, and poverty guided. This is because for the nuclear threat to threaten our security in the large context, we need to deal with it on a global scale as well. To say again, I'm very happy that the 9th of Iceland's land weekend is peacefully declared to be in here, but I think it's in many ways a major political statement while the large security context may be more involved. 5. Comments on the proposal include the classifications of threats and risk factors that are put in place and, in my opinion, very helpful and shed much light on national security factors. It constitutes one of the dangers that should be put first in the context of practical management and resources, including environmental rivers, Internet threats, and natural disasters. Group two are threats requiring full attention that include organized crime, financial and economic security, food and food security, health security, epidemics and terrorism. In fact, terrorism has been developed in a class since what appeared in the comments made by the Committee at Work and did the highest level. The minister of foreign affairs, in fact, was an authority in his historical history. The third category is so dangerous that it is unlikely to hit Iceland, but it is a threat to national sovereignty and independence. V.E.G. President. It was quite surprising to me when I read through comments on the Senate resolution that despite the fact that military threat is cast into a group of No. Three are extremely, or quite large, of the words on the threat of warfare. I'm sad that it gets so much weight in the text and also a lot of weight in the ten focus groups set out in the Senate arrangement and the subject of the proposal is really about, and that the discontinuation of a class alone, and indeed two, is not getting more and deeper publicity in the comments. In fact, I feel that there's a lot of powder going on about military issues, which are not classified as the greatest danger in Iceland. I'd like to say, though, that on my own, I agree with the highest degree. Prime Minister that we always need to examine the military threat that the world is facing at one time. Iceland is an armyless country, and we are to speak for peace and disarmament, as they say in the Senate resolution. That's why I'm hoping that we certainly do it inwardly, i.e. in the military community we have in NATO, where many of the world's largest arms - selling nations and as an alliance that has the right to use nuclear weapons in the first place. [[The president calls.]] I think we should emphasize that point in our case just so that in the large context of our global security. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u100	V.E.G. President. Of course, this discussion does not have to be surprising. Councilmen of the left movement - green supply have made comments to our involvement in the Atlantic Union and to our defensive activity with other Western countries. That is what has long existed and is known. On the other hand, regarding the speech of some. Then there is one particular thing that I wanted to mention, and this is about the ideas and efforts to improve the cooperation of the Norwegian nations in this field. Of course, it is a policy that has some history, but it has become even more valid today because governments in these countries have agreed that circumstances that have changed in recent losses call for an increased amount of equipment on their part and increased cooperation. This increased cooperation has been made in both political statements, but we can also say in more cooperation with exercise, exchange of information, and the like. I think it's a positive development. I think it's a good thing for us Icelanders to make contact with the northern countries in this area, I think we can do a lot of good with that. The area is normal, but it is also normal in historical light, because we, along with the Norwegian and Dana, have been involved in the Atlantic alliance and have cooperated in it for a long time and with the rest of the North countries that have followed a declared neutral policy, i.e. Swamp and Finn have also increased as their cooperation with NATO has been greatly increased in view of the circumstances that have existed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u101	V.E.G. President. Yes, it is true that these policy measures in the defense of the North countries have had some convergence and we have indeed received news of it, just in the last days, that it is getting more, I don't know with value, but at least more important, since I would say that there was simply a change in the way these military or protective work is being worked. But I disagree. A senator in that this is a good development or a positive thing, for I believe that it would be far more beneficial for world peace if the Northern countries put emphasis on cooperation in which they would speak more in behalf of peace and disarmament. In view of what is happening today, I rather feel that I am speaking toward a certain treadion, which we will share with other countries of the Western world. I don't feel that this is going in the right direction. I believe that the northern countries could do more by promoting themselves in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u102	Mr. President. I think we can agree that what calls for these reactions is not the ideal situation, it's not an option. However, there has been a common assessment of these countries that there is a greater reason for cooperation because in the vicinity of us and these countries, some more than we, has been more wary of looking than has been for a long time. What has been happening in this regard is how we react to situations we have certainly not requested. The situation, of course, is that for a long time there was great effort on the part of NATO and Western countries to promote communication with Russia, and Russia had the position of cohesion in many areas. [[The president calls.]] But now, because of circumstances, there has been another reality, and this is a reaction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u103	V.E.G. President. I'm sorry, so there's more to war, there's just a lot of wars in the world, not just around us, but away too. This is precisely in the light of which I believe that the voice of peace that speaks for disarmament, which looks for a different and new means of coping with warfare, wherever in the world they are, will be more important than ever. Therefore, we need to respond, not by going into the past with increased armor, but by speaking of embezzling it, and that is what we should do as an armyless nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u104	A respectable president. I noticed in a talk a lot. A senator said that she spoke about NATO and seemed to have her doubts about things that are not surprising. But in view of the events that take place now, I wondered. A senator thinks Iceland is better off outside NATO. Then I feel a little important in this context that we look at the situation as it is now, not just the historical context, though it is of course very important, but the fact that Russia is -- it's all so overwhelming that there's a lot to say to too much here in pontu, but Russia is showing claws as shown by its whole behavior. That was at the time with Abkasia and South Ossetia in Georgia, and certainly Georgia and what happened there for hours. Then there are events in the Crimea and now Ukraine. And now it's so late that the Baltic States and Poland, which are NATO countries, are extremely afraid of war, normal. What I wonder when I look at maps and examine the NATO countries and the countries near Russia that are not in NATO is: Which countries have the most to fear? I think that if the non-NATO countries are less afraid of Russia than the Baltic States and Poland, it's because they have enough cooperation with NATO and/or a large enough army themselves so that they can give some kind of counterargument to what has to be called the Russia's treason. I wondered, " What do I think? ' A senator in this context.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u105	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I think we're better off outside NATO, and I'm not worried that if we tell us from NATO that the Russians will be here and take over the country. I see much more threats involved in being members of a military alliance that has long been aggressive and has reserved the right to the use of nuclear weapons in the first place. I think our security as a small nation at the end of the world is by far the best of our efforts to be a nation without a military alliance and that it is by far the most likely that we can succeed in our own independence and contribute to the peace and disarmament of the world, for I think that is truly what the world needs now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u106	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. True, it is. According to one U.S. senator, when it comes to a whole military organization, there is always the need for measures that must be considered for an attack. It's the world we live in. We're very lucky in Iceland that we don't have to give it a lot of attention, that's a lot of joy. But I still have my doubts about the diagnosis of what? A senator, yet I would like to state that I can only express my own opinions, my party hasn't settled this or discuss this with me knowingly, so I'm just speaking here for myself. I wondered: " What if the Baltic States or Poland weren't in NATO? Counting 'em. A senator that these kingdoms would be safer outside NATO if we gave our place? I ask because I am also curious about the senator's position on the phenomenon of NATO, not just Iceland's position in NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u107	V.E.G. President. I am a peacemaker in my heart, and I think that the way to a better world is through disarmament and by speaking for peace. From the way I believe that there should be no state in NATO because I believe that an organization like NATO should simply not exist. It may be that someone thinks it's a Nazi, it's just gonna be so, but I think this is the way to make the world a better place. As for Poland and the Baltic States, I think it would be better outside NATO, and, yes, I think it would further ensure their safety, because I believe that precisely the fact that NATO has been moving itself closer to Russia is a certain challenge that leads to the treading which will then lead to an increased risk of war or some kind of combat. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u108	A respectable president. What I really wanted to do in this place - and I'll start with thank you. A senator for a fine talk - points out that in section 7 of this 10 says, by permission of the president: To be a part of the National Security and Security Policy Strategy for Iceland. If we so look at class two, the threats that I think we need full attention, then that is, as it were, two parties are almost under the public defence and security Council in themselves, food and food safety, etc. The current formative policy, including the U.S. This factor, will fit into national security policy on point 7. That explains why these things do not go as much into as they do. With regard to military threat, defenses, etc. It is simply because this policy is not in itself dealt with about epidemics and the like, but is this prevention elsewhere. Then we'll put it into further employment with national security policy, and, of course, these parties will come to the National Security Council. I just wanted to explain, there's a reason why less is made out of it there than many other reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u109	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of State for coming and explaining, and more clearly, in terms of section 7. It is fine that this will be discussed elsewhere and clearly. And in fact, just saying that even if it had been done in my opinion, there might have been more to it than is done here. Of course, you always find some things you want more or less from. I would have, as I said in my speech earlier, wanted to see in the text that follows here -- well, what we new senators use to understand and get into things, yes, the lyrics that follow - more reflect on these gangs and less on the less important things, the military issues. But again, I want to thank the highest. Secretary of State for coming and at least explain why this point is not exactly covered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u110	A respectable president. We will discuss a proposal for a resolution on national security policy for Iceland. You've learned from your limited experience that ten minutes before a speech like this usually turns out to be extremely small, so I'm going to try to stick to two things that are basically two points of three category one, i.e. Risks to be put in the light of the management and financial resources. The first point is an environmental threat or an accident as a result of an increase in northern activities, a second of Internet threats and damage to the interiors of society, but the point I mentioned is the 8th point of the proposal. First, there is a brief period of environmental problems or accidents due to increased environmental activity in the North. Now, all of us know that many people imagine that oiling can begin in the north, and each one of us seems to be doing so. I'd like to mention in particular that when it comes to the safety of Iceland, it is probably of little greater value to the society in which we live than to the fish in the seas and the environment around the country. That is why I view it as completely and completely impossible to risk some kind of accident, an oil accident, in the north, as a threat to life. I don't think it would take that much. It's one of the reasons I don't approve of working oil in the north, but it's my personal position and again I'd like to make a decision that I just speak for myself as a certain senator, I can't speak for the rest of my council. What I may speak a little more to others in my category is the 8th model for Internet threats and computer - related crimes. That may be the threat we Icelanders really have the best ability to handle in some way or assume, i.e. when it comes to threats from humans. Of course, in Iceland we are used to fighting nature, having had to do it more than a thousand years and longer, but when it comes to fighting against attacks from other people, we simply are not used as a nation. Of course, we do not have that strategy, which is good, or it is good that we do not think we need it. However, when it comes to the Internet and the Internet, I think that the fact that we don't have that military way of thinking that normally is good, i.e. lack of it. He's gonna get us into a little bobbet because on the Internet, we're under constant attack. For example, I think a small program for myself to help with my contracting, it's software I wrote myself. I put it on web, made appropriate safety measures, etc. But for fun, I keep an eye on it when someone's attacking it. I realize, though, that I can never watch everyone, but I grab one incident and it's stopped, it's all day long, there's a nonstop network attack on more or less all the systems all day. Hackers divide millions, they never sleep, they attack us all the time. And that is why it is so important that we keep in mind when it comes to dealing with the threat of globalized and computer - related crime that, first of all, we can never stop the attacks in ourselves. We must assume that we are always under attack. Also, I have to take into account another point that appears in a report on the 8th team, which is to increase the impactability of administration and institutions. This is of utmost importance because what we can also expect is that from time to time, excited persons will enter the systems here, even a very important system. I'd especially like to draw attention to one thing that Iceland and I like to do, and that's to collect personal information, perhaps just the nature of the case because we're a small people. I mean, knowingly, it's one Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson in the entire known universe, simply because I'm an Icelander and no other Icelander named that name. Thus, Iceland and I are always very vulnerable to some kind of characteristic. We have the social security number, and I'm afraid I'll say more than the name when we have government agencies, banks, even lawyers. I always tell my foreign friends to scare them, especially if they're from Germany or Holland, that when you call the bank or the lawyer, you don't say your name, but to this number, ten figures that identify a man as an Icelander. I sometimes call it a Šcitzen number, in English, or a member of some kind, to make fun of all of this. Of course, the benefits of all of these are not diminished. On the contrary, it is exactly the benefit of the social security number and the benefits of the treatment information we have in Iceland but which makes this also dangerous information, i.e. if we don't treat them well. We're very eager to gather information here and there. Now, I'd like to say that the law is getting better over time. There is a rich emphasis on personal protection, which is good, and more emphasis on keeping a little secret that's okay, but it emphasizes that we, as the report in Article 8 of the proposal, are going to increase the traumatic tolerance of administration and institutions. We must assume that from time to time our defenses are broken, especially because we are a tiny nation and simply do not have the ability to protect ourselves from highly advanced hacker ears, hostile peoples, and much less big nations. So I think that more and more we need to rely on international cooperation. Already, the CERT team has been set up within the state police commissioner's office, says here, and it's good and blessed, probably a very capable man, but they'll always be very few. I find it very difficult to believe that it will ever be possible for the state to compete with the private market when it comes to security experts, they are extremely few in Iceland, and in direct relation to the more expensive ones, I would think. They have a great tendency to work elsewhere for companies abroad simply because the demand is greater. God knows how many companies there are that count more people than all of the Icelanders. So this is something that I think we have to do more and more in cooperation with other nations than stand here to realize that we have natural enemies online that we have never had before. In principle, there are some in a world that we do not know who are or what they want or why. As I say, there are constant attacks, always, on more or less network. At least we'll have to take care of that. We need some kind of military thought when it comes to this, but I'd like to stress that this kind of military thinking can never happen, nor can it become, what to say, in an attack style of any kind here in Iceland. He'll always be on the defensive because we always have to keep our walls in order. We'll never send out some soldiers to get some bad calls online when it comes to national security, I think, I don't see it. We need to keep our defenses in order, and we need to focus on that. But that is quite consistent with, I think, the position the Icelanders generally want Iceland to be in, i.e. Not to contribute to ever being in the military effort itself but rather to contribute to the prevention, prevention of war, and prevention of any kind of attack. I appreciate that when it comes to information technology, we can come to the same philosophy with the only warning that we must realize that we are constantly under attack and will be in the future. I'm sorry, I don't have time for more, as I said here at the beginning, and I'll leave it by then for further discussion on this matter. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u111	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a fine speech for Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson. I say for myself, I always listen when it's time to listen. A senator talks about matters related to computers and information technology because, in comparison with me, he has the highest authority in that field. It is of great interest that he mentions what we should know but may not be aware that Internet attacks of various kinds are stable, persistent, and come from sources that have different purposes. In some cases and in a number of cases, it is someone who is trying to gain financial benefit from it. In other cases it may be pure vandalism, and there may be many other viewpoints or a number of other motivations involved. I think it's very good to approach the situation, so to think of it as a permanent threat or an ongoing situation, we can say, which needs to be protected by the means available to us. Maybe I wanted to go inside. A senator only sees how he sees that we can take the next steps or how we can continue to develop the efforts that are on the part of our Icelandic government in cooperation with others to protect us as far as possible - although it may be late to prevent some from getting through the defenses at some point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u112	A respectable president. That's a very good question. You see, it depends on which party we intend to defend. If we are going to protect ourselves against what we can call random attacks or anything, we will be able to discern ahead of time what is being done, they may be done for financial reasons that are for financial purposes, at times vandalism. In Iceland it has now been damaged because people think it is. Is standing for Israel, so often we are simply the wrong target. But what I think is something important that we keep in mind as politicians is that part of the threat comes from hostile nations. Now, I hope this is not much news or shocking news here at the order of the Council, but today the case is that the intelligence institutions of the Western world, including Britain and the United States, who are our close friends, are deeply involved in spy activities. It's important in my opinion to prevent -- what to say, we can call it an attack, no matter what word you use exactly about it, but it's that political what's okay, what we'd be willing to accept from their behavior. When it comes to threats that are just somewhere on the Internet, let's say some hackers in Russia or China, we have to rely on the safety of experts. From a political point of view, it is far more complex than spending enough money on it and cooperating with enough people to solve that problem. The political problem, however, when it comes to the espionage of the country's citizens, our main dealings with the hostile superpowers, such as the United States and Britain, who have great abilities and will and history of using information tactics. So I think we need to work harder to be clear about what's okay and what's not caused by it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u113	V.E.G. President. I can agree that it is important that there is a common understanding of cooperation and friendship countries as to what is lawful and what is not. Of course, there have been cases where there has been a difference of opinion. Of course, the revelations about the function of the NSA in the United States were a blow to many of the U.S. cooperation states, for example. This is one thing, and I think conversation and cooperation are an important factor. But when it comes to other attacks, you can try to sort them in different ways. It may be a criminal organization who wants to gain some financial benefit in this regard. There may be terrorists who want to harm, want to paralyze the interiors of society, or some important infrastructure, whether it is an energy system, financial system, or anything like that. This may also be the case with organized action on the part of governments. There have been recent cases of unfounded suspicions on the part of the individual states that such attacks have occurred from countries that could have viewed them as serving their political interests in some way as a solution or such. It brings to mind what it would be like to see real warfare happening today. Wouldn't the first line of attack be just an Internet attack?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u114	A respectable president. Yes, there would be, at least, an attack like that with the first one; there is so much, I think. I would have wanted to continue with the other aspect of this fear of the world. The fear of the world, as I'm going to allow myself to call it, is at least twofold; actually complex, but at least twofold. It is when it comes to hostile Western countries, such as the United States and Britain, and when it comes to such great powers as China and Russia, which are not necessarily enemy nations, but certainly not as close as the United States, Britain, or the so - called Western world. The difference between these two types of big countries is that the United States produces the majority of the software tools we use. We, for example, use Apple Computers at the Assembly Hall and a lot of people use Windows, etc. If these countries give the advantage they have to spy out, it is much easier to build up some kind of positive relationship with them in order to withstand the threats from the others that do not have the advantage of creating the tools and software we use daily at work, play, and work, and everything else. This is why I think it is important for me to emphasize to our friends that it is not okay for them to act like that because we need to be on the same team. If that happens, if it happens that other less hostile superpowers are going to try to destroy us, we need to be in the same team and hostile nations that make these devices. But it is also important that our relationship is completely resolved that we are going to be on the same team.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u115	V.E.G. President. The Conspiracy proposal for discussion is, in my opinion, a cause for joy, and I want to thank the highest degree. Secretary of State for bringing her into this council. I think it affords us a welcome opportunity, both at the Senate Hall and at the State Department, to consider carefully the important factors discussed. As discussed in the discussion, there are a number of factors that need to be addressed in this context. I think it would be good for us to take the discussion on that basis so that we do not view our reaction to threats of various kinds in too narrowly restricted boxes but can only look at it from a wide perspective. The basis for this resolution is the job of the Parliamentary Committee, which was formed during the last term. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir led to a large number of important features in the text of the Senate arrangement after that work. In some respects it indicates that in some areas it has been involved with some kind of compromise, but I still think it highlights a key element that is involved in our response and defense to external threats. There are a few things I especially want to stay in that relationship. I strongly emphasize that during the Parliament's resolution proposal, the fundamental factors that have been cornerstoneal, we can say, the defense policy of the Icelanders in the past few decades, on the other hand, a defense team with the United States and, on the other hand, a role in the Atlantic Alliance, that policy is well-registered in a very clear way. It is obligatory that Iceland and the Icelandic government believe that the security of the country in this international political context is best paid by continuing and promoting cooperation, on the other hand, in the field of the Atlantic Community, and by two-sided communications with the United States, which certainly changed with the 2006 defense team, but are a very important team in our foreign and protective policy. I think it's a real pleasure to know how large a meeting was achieved in the work of the Parliamentary Committee, which becomes part of the Parliament's resolution proposal. We know that there are members of Parliaments and classes that have different positions on that subject, but it is clear what is the main policy of the majority of them is if we take the Council Committee and then expect the position that exists in the council, that there is not enough to disappear from the fundamental factors on which our defence policy has based, our involvement in the Atlantic Alliance, and the defence of the United States. It is not difficult to do so, however, for me to promote this cooperation, and I believe that the events that have occurred in our part of the world during our last losses are proof of it or an appeal that by doing so we can best secure our position. Because earlier in this discussion, men have discussed military threat and how it is classified, and in this regard, I wanted to mention that while we could not view the threat of war as imminent, and fortunately the possibility that there is little military threat in Iceland, it is both our duty and the nature of the ability to have feedback and equipment that can cope with such situations. This is important because we too must be ready for the unexpected. When it comes to developing such a course, it is only natural for us to determine threats at different levels, depending on the danger being considered at any given time, but we also need to be prepared to react to the unexpected, even the unlikely one. Because world events are often unexpected and sometimes rapid, I think, despite the fact that I'm not going to make a disagreement about how the threat of war is judged in this proposal, that it is extremely important to be equipped, and to be involved in working with those situations. Actually, it is one of our primary obligation when it comes to such matters. Another thing that has happened in the world that has to be taken into account when discussing these issues is an increased risk of terrorism and is taken into account in the proposed proposal that, in the judgment of the state police department, terrorism has increased. We have simply seen that the threat of terrorism in recent times is getting closer. Of course, it has been around for a long time, and we can say that terrorism that is particularly not a new word in the Western world. However, events in both neighboring countries and in other collaborators suggest that this type of danger has gone on increasing, requiring our response. There is another aspect of this synonym that I think we need to discuss in the treatment of the council, evaluate the basis of the changed risk assessment, and discuss how we measure that position when it comes to that information. The situation is, of course, that in many matters the Parliamentary proposal suggests that less disagreements may exist. I have considered two factors that may be clear that members of the Parliament may have different views. Therefore, if we take a range that can be rather listed under the usual public defences, protection against natural disasters or environmental threats or such, there may be less disagreements in these areas, and therefore may be less need for discussion about these factors. However, it is important that they be mentioned in this, and they included in it because in our daily realities, we have to be prepared to respond and need to be equipped in the process. I had a word with what. Gunnarsson Just before in the context of Internet security and Internet threats, it is a field that is well understood by the Senate report and by the Senate resolution and the importance of saying: "Let's discuss these matters and increase our awareness and awareness of the circumstances in which we live. I have a feeling that unless there was a relatively narrow group that had taken care of them, it might not be on public witness or at least in the minds of people. I think it's important that we increase our attention in that area because it's, like, going on. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson mentioned earlier, a persistent condition that may vary in severity according to the circumstances, but still a persistent condition for which adequate equipment is needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u116	Mr. President. As more people express satisfaction in the fact that this proposal has come forward, and I believe that all of this has been developing in rather a happy direction, the job of foreign affairs, and the shape of foreign policy. For some time, it is more peaceful to discuss these matters and more touching points than in previous chapters. It is truly enjoyable, and I believe that in all the main points, the commission work produced this product through the highest proposal. The minister of foreign affairs has been successful, and thanks are due to those who came in. Basically, I'm fine with the emphasis here. I think they're a big improvement, and I mean especially that the security concept is well-founded and on this is a strong veil of civil and peaceful approach to security. The old Cold War thought that security issues were just a matter of military service, military equipment, and little attention that, fortunately, other factors have greatly cleared aside. So I can agree with this as with my siblings in previous talks as our chairman explained as well as with reference to the publication of the VG's representative of the Committee that follows. It is striking for this development how the category presented here is presented in the context of danger regardless of its relevance. One category contains environmental threats or accidents as a result of increasing climatic activity in the North, Internet, and natural disasters. Group two is organized crime, etc. and then there are three groups, risks that are unlikely to hit Iceland, but remember to weigh the national sovereignty and independence. There, the threat of warfare is included. I deeply agree with this, but I believe that our recent experiences as a nation would prove to us that there are other threats that are more likely and that are closer to us, e.g. The economy. We were very simply hair-sized from going under not too many years ago, and we can hardly call it anything but a significant threat at least Economic independence and, of course, the economic well - being and safety of the people. A mother of nature has also been refreshingly reminded of her temper, but in recent years we have experienced quite a few major events of natural events, such as volcanic eruptions, earthquakes, and disasters. In particular, I must celebrate the 9th Amendment of the proposal that Iceland and Iceland are at peace with nuclear weapons, taking into account international commitments in an effort to promote disarmament and peace of Iceland. Only this has value in addition to what has happened before. Of course, there is quite a long history of how Iceland's nuclear arms situation has developed since the period of policy, through the Cold War and the U.S. Army, that there should not be any nuclear weapons left on land. Then there were sometimes debates as to whether it was really safe to say that it had been respected. It must have been 1984 or 1985 when the person here asked the highest question. the late foreign minister Geir Hallgrímsson to see if this policy would also turn around, if a ship were to be set sail. The foreign minister said it was, in fact, must lead by itself, since we didn't want here to have weapons on the land, neither would we want them into our ports. However, at that time, it was a big story, so American newspapers suggested that Iceland might have been changing policy, and this set a line in the account of the United States and NATO. Since then, this has been said to be more successful in various ways. This has been repeatedly declared, and the Allied Council discussed it, and the rural communities are virtually inclusive, I don't know if there are two or three left, for their part they have a special peace-enforced territory, and that of course has value and value. And finally it's here, but it hasn't been legalized. Then there came a twofold, which was basically why I asked for the word. The first was my dear New Zealand. I'll think about it. Birgitta Jónsdóttir asked them if they might be there. To set a good example for legalizing such peace, of course, the answer is yes. It so happens that I'm okay at home with it. During the 1870's, I had a few people living in that country, twice for the first year and again for a few months, and I watched closely as New Zealand took the bold step of announcing its land and its jurisdiction toward nuclear weapons. That's why there's been some bangs, because there's been a riot in the cooperation of the Pacific, especially New Zealand, but in some way New Zealand and Australia, with Americans on this matter. But New Zealand's newcomers went on to legalize in the detailed laws of New Zealand's nuclear freedom. I took the law and translated it into Icelandic, and they laid the basis for the first bill I gave to Iceland's nuclear declaration, based on law code of New Zealand. It is precisely made up of a type, as since the bill has since then, and here it is said to the 9th, that the nuclear apocalyptic declaration is made to New Zealand's obligations on international, peaceful traffic. In one case they are different from us, they have a narrow swim between the Northern Islands and the Southern Islands, so they have an obligation to drive in real time, but we're about to have to, because no one can argue that, for example, they need to pass through the country. sailing through the 12 miles of Iceland's territory to get to the Channel of Greenland or the east of the country. We have a higher position to extend that threshold at least ... tothe12milesand the airspace upstream. The second reason why I'm here is that, as this proposal came up, I thought of the good bill that I've only been dusting over the past few days and I intend to make it up, probably for the 11th time it would be delivered in less than 30 years. The last two of them were carried by a whale. paritaprevir Þór, the Árni of Sigurðsson, and others in my absence from the council as minister and all the time, have had extensive support. Senators from all organized councils to name at this time unless the Independence Party has delivered the case and including the former presidents and members of the Foreign Party and many Paints, so in the club there is a shining deck of men who have served the highest office and including former foreign ministers, I don't think the present but not much. With the proposal here, which is a administrative proposal and as a result supported by both administrations, I have to say that I am not anything that should be in the way of which we now validate that policy for further support and, of course, it's only natural to do. I'll be looking for a transfer to the bill from all groups of Congress, hoping that the Independence Party could be included. I don't think there's any reason any more for one or any more to keep it on notice. It's a declared policy, which has uncircumcised support, I hope, in Iceland, and we don't have to worry about any sensitivity to one or any other, and it would just take its turn if any of this happened. On the basis of our sovereignty, there is absolutely no doubt that this can be done, and it does not simulate any commitment to the Atlantic Community or to others as long as we do it so that we respect international laws on sailing and peaceful traffic and responsibilities toward the international Oceanic Convention and such. Of course, it is easy to do so, and it involves primarily the obligation to allow a peaceful, uninstalled passage. We can make comments if they're going to settle down in the weekend, though on international shipping routes, etc., but as New Zealand did this in its own time, and I don't know that the court has changed as far as it goes, it's the duty to allow yourself to be allowed for a legitimate purpose, without unnecessaryly sufficiency. Of course, the same thing is about the airspace above the country, and we could push it at least beyond 12 miles and the line above. This is what I want to be presented for the discussion of the legalization of this policy, and I think the only thing that remains is to reassemble it by taking it into force. [[The president calls.]] Of course, when the time comes, you could visit the constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-21-93.u117	A respectable president. First, I want to say something about a talk. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon says when he talks about dropping something into the constitution, I think we know that it can take some time. Other than that, I want to thank you for the fine discussion that has taken place. There have been various viewpoints that I hope to get a good and detailed discussion on the Foreign Affairs Committee. Many tips have also been made about unique groups that might be different in or something like that, so I think the discussion has been very objective and good, and thank you. I think that the reason for her good is that the preparation for this council arrangement has been very good and long. That was a good job for the Chairman of the Committee, which is about this, why. paritaprevir It's Bjarnadóttir's Valgerður. We went to visit her and did quite well, and then the Ministry officials have done very well in applying the suggestions for this form that we have here. I look forward to the discussion that will follow on the Foreign Affairs Committee and elsewhere.
