ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u1	There have been six letters from the chairman of the House of Congress, the Mission, the Left Motion of Green Pronunciation, Pirata, and the Vice - General of the Independence Party, of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, 7th. Smoke. n., Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, 1st. Witchest. "Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, 11th. Smoke. n., Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, 3th. Smoke. n., Birgitta Jónsdóttir, 12th, p.m. We're out of here. , and Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir, 3th. We're out of here. "Be absent at the next time in public affairs and cannot be a member of Congress while you're at it. Today, therefore, at the World Council of II, a deputy of the Church's Future List in Smoke. n., Fanný Gunnarsdóttir, 1st Lipper of the Agency's List in Norway. " Sigurður Páll Jónsson, Special Agent 1 of the Continental Arts of Smoke. n., Anna Guðjónsdóttir Gudjonsdótttir, a custodian of the left movement's list of green offers in Smoke. n., Björn Valur Gíslason, 1st Lipper on Pirata's list in Southvest. "The son of Björn, the Leví of Gunnarsson, and the first deputy of the Independence Party of Sudves. Óli Kárason Kálmson. They have all been invited to serve at the General Assembly before, and they are welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u2	votes are not expected today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Department of Social Affairs and Hospital Affairs and Economic and Economic Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u4	A respectable president. The leading members of the UN have made the most serious remarks. Secretary of finance has declared that it is not an option to reduce insurance costs for the coming year. The reduction in insurance costs is the basis for the SALEK meeting done in the fall and the highest. Secretary of finance ended a great deal of praise. It is also on the behalf of the executives of the industry that it will not be reviewing the collective agreements in February the second, that unchanged members of the Allied Union and the members of the UN will therefore likely be forced to reimburse the claim. This is strange, since we have heard from the highest level many times. Secretary of finance discussing the importance of reducing insurance. This is an extremely unjust tax base. Of course, it is secretive, thus reducing the number of jobs and the competitiveness of the workplace. It is the main source of knowledge because it is the human resources of most of the business's business budget, and it relatively outweighs small companies. There is an enormous scope for reducing insurance costs, since unemployment has fallen very much together and room at least to reduce it by 2%. It is now 7.5% of pay. So I must ask the highest. Secretary of the budget, each seat. Why does he not want to keep up with repeated promises to cut down the insurance fee, and how will he otherwise deal with the employment sector and the labour market, making it possible for the general labour market to be able to shoulder the raise in the pipeline in view of a dresser's status this year? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u5	Mr. President. A national budget presented here in the spring months was announced that during the next four years, insurance would decrease more than what has already been established, but the last stage of that reduction would be due to take place at the annual convention when the insurance bill declines by 0.14%. It is happening at this time of the year, in line with what had been determined before. In the last spring, the collective agreements were made that on the part of employers in particular and the trade unions were requested that we be more prioritised in the interest of a decrease in income tax. So, after consultation with the labour market, we changed the course and disappeared from the previous announced reduction of an entire percentage of the insurance fees over the next four years and stressed the income tax. It was when we showed the cards what this meant and were ready to make a statement about this promise that could be arranged at the end of our last spring. There was no disagreement. There was no mention of any man who said that we should have turned down the insurance bill more when the bargaining session ended. But that has happened in the meantime, including by strike and performance standards, the development of pay is considerably higher than that expected at that time. It's a difficult problem for the sector of industry and for the people preparing it now, in the ASI collective contract, how to reflect on the significant increases that have taken place during the year to the general market so that there will be room for it in the economy. So it doesn't change that this end of the situation last spring, and I'm denying that there was some premise for the SALEK Convention that the insurance bill should be dropped at the end of the year, because it doesn't say in the SALEK agreement. However, there was talk of counter measures. [[The president calls.]] And we will continue to be ready to discuss the reductions in the insurance fee beyond what we have already done. I think it has to happen over time. This is not the basis for its tens of millions reduction at this time of the year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u6	A respectable president. I suppose that's the basis for a tens of millions of them falling at the end of the year. It is simply a matter of choice of tax returns. That's a choice of the highest. Secretary of finance putting pay taxes on knowledge companies and small companies. If he doesn't see room for the heads of state to cut down the insurance money, why doesn't he rather raise income taxes on all companies? Why does he only deposit insurance on an knowledge company, which pays 80% of the cost of operating costs, but in aluminium companies, the cost is 8%? This is nothing but an indiscriminate taxation. There's an increase in employment standards. The government has reduced resource costs to the seaside. It does not fit in paying expenses for the arrival of tourists and thus does not charge the tourism service for a fair share in the construction of tourist facilities, but it intends to have the knowledge companies carry burdens above other companies in the country. There's no need to do this. It's a political choice on the part of the minister of finance, and if he offered other suggestions, such as a general increase in income taxes, either on individuals or on a company, he would be more likely to be involved and he would reduce an insurance fee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u7	Mr. President. Unlike that government as hell. A senator sat in his time, and we've reduced the insurance bill. That government raised the insurance bill. [[Up front.]] We've dropped the insurance fee in this terms period.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u8	How much have you put down?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u9	About 0.34% of us have dropped our insurance fees from year to year, and we have announced that we will continue to do so. What no one wants to discuss in this discussion is the obvious thing, which is that we are now making more raises than we bear. That's why our communities are heading for a sliding business. That is why there is no room for more investments, as we would have liked or added to some institutions. [[Up front.]] That is why the job life is asking: How should we live up to that great increase? And now, of course, the game begins: Who is responsible for all of this? He's such a classic Icelandic game, finding the guy responsible for the confusion. [[Up front.]] But the answer is that the system is broken, the answer is that the system is broken, and the SALEK network is working on finding a new methodology to get out of this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] The insurance bill will continue to turn down, okay? Senator. It will not rise as in the time of the last government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u10	A respectable president. According to the Constitution of the government, 184 cases were to be submitted. The situation has now reached 45 prime points and 11 Parliamentary decrees, 56 languages. Of these 45 primary sites, 8 of the EEA's primary products are and 11 of the Parliament's resolutions are 7 EEA protocols, so there is not much of what the government has proposed and what remains of this is particularly a remanded case. I'm not necessarily complaining that governments are not going to be represented, that is not all the cases that the government is necessarily offering, and maybe only good if we have an opportunity to discuss a good Senate case. Yet, this brings attention. Now I understand that ministers are some kind of project managers who have to make sure their case is handled in the plot. I'm not minimizing it, I'm sure it's a challenge to put together the bills, but I must ask if ministers in this government are growing, and if the Supreme Ministers are growing. The prime minister who is to govern the government is a good worker enough. I'd like an explanation. I think they're striking numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u11	A respectable president. That shouldn't be a cutting number if you had to. A senator has watched comparable numbers in the past few years, if not decades. In any case, it may be assumed that not every case listed in the list of cases would be considered for a New Year's Eve. Hv. A senator should rejoice over this. It should not be an independent goal that humans are always making the most changes in law. A goal should be to make good changes. The government has won things, so it makes good changes in the law, not as if we had experienced during the last terms where the tax law was changed and probably more than 200 changes were made in the tax laws and in the vast majority of cases to increase. [[Up front.]] Here we have resolved to work well, to do fewer than better changes. But, of course, we want to keep the council as enlightened as possible, so we will make a list of all the issues we see in our mind of possible appearance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u12	A respectable president. So, what's the point of this Senate book? Is this the government's list of subjects that would be nice to contribute if we possibly had time to do so? [[Up front.]] Well, then I'd better not. And then, what are the Ministers for if it is not their job to counter the political issues of the government? So, what do we have a minister for? I think the Ministry and the people there can totally direct the daily operation. Also, I ask myself, " Am I the best Ministers? ' I'm a little impressed with taking people out of the society that may have a degree in project management and perhaps human relations and what it takes. But I don't think these results are very effective. I think I'm right about it. It's a bad historical story. But maybe the political course of this government is no greater than this, it doesn't have to go on or men don't trust themselves to set up any issues or I don't know what's going on. I don't think it's normal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u13	A respectable president. That's what worries me. A senator is as much as I could at the moment, but no one who has observed the Senate recently has missed that it is not as those in the government opposition had no case to talk about. I think it would be enough for them to have just one thing, but they'd still talk to me tonight about that one thing. It has to be said that, of course, it is part of the problem that this government conflict is not at least, and rather than government positions over the past decades... [[Up front.]] A respectable president. Now I'm clearly meeting at a delicate point. This time's political opposition takes over almost any language, making it talk, and from the first week on. As far as I remember from the first week, there was a matter in my mind, whether it was large or small, to support a filament. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u14	A respectable president. At the beginning of the last terms, a team was formed to revise fish - control laws and provide suggestions for changing the quality of the relationship. It was a large group, appointed representatives of all members of the council at that time, representatives of unions, sailors, and workers of the land, builders, professionals, and rural groups to be numbered. One of the main results of this task force was that there should be a charge for the resource use, a charge which would be related to the recovery of the article on resource use. This is not the first time that humans can reach such a conclusion, at least two large groups of earlier decades, 10, 12 years in advance, came to a similar conclusion. It was then in 2012 for the fishing year 2012/2013, which was set up in the Council on Fishing, with the aim for the fishing costs taking into account the flow of the seabed. The fishing year was 12.8 billion. They have then progressively declined since they were first applied, i.e. Fishing in 2012/2013 A total of 9 billion times, i.e. which have been reduced in the current season. This is not because the fishing road is not working well, it is doing quite well in the fishing industry, in fact, never going better, but because these are political decisions. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister today, when it comes to fishing costs, except for about 7.5 billion dollars, which are a tenth of the interest in the article, whether it seems natural and fair to him to take advantage of the sea resources, that one tenth goes to the State, the owner of the resource, while 90% remain with the article itself. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u15	Mr. President. This was a typical talk for the left man's thinking on the business world, i.e. taking care of some particular financial size from one particular industry. [[Up front.]] I know it's hard for the left man to listen to this -- make a certain amount of money, I said. [[Take it up, pay it.]] [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator suggested that 12 billion is just a fine price, and if that number dropped anything -- Yes, it was a suggestion... [[Up front.]] [[...I never said that...]] [[The president calls.]] I thought I had the word now and I didn't have to have a place to talk to men in the hall while I was answering.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u16	V.E.G. There's been a financial minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u17	The fact is, this government will take tens of billions of dollars in hunting costs, far beyond what the left government did during its terms, far beyond that. Of course, that is not enough. The road will also provide tens of billions of dollars and payable taxes. Of course, that is not enough. The seabed is the only branch in Iceland, and the only seabed in the world to provide taxes of that kind and to the extent it is done in Iceland. Of course, that is not enough either. People here have been competing to find ways to think that the article that will eventually lead only to less investing, less interest will be reduced, and the tax stock that humans think is just a given size will disappear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u18	Who are...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u19	That's how it's gonna be. In this government, the result is to adjust the charges so that they are more reasonable. We are gaining billions of dollars beyond what the left government took, but the application is more reasonable. That is a good conclusion for the seabed and for the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u20	For some.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u21	A respectable president. The question was very simple and natural. I'm waiting for the highest. Minister to listen again. Does he feel that it is a normal change in the fishing industry that 1 out of 10 runs to the State, but nine will be left with the article? I'll give him an answer: a) Yes, b) no, to ease his answer. [[Up front.]] The other is wrong at the highest. Minister, to say that I said that 12.8 billion of my first year fishing was some normal number. That was the first number. [[Up front.]] Hunting would be higher today if we had followed them there's no need to hit the bell for my sake, Mr. President, I can handle them by myself. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Hunting today would be much higher if the right government had not stirred the law and cut down the charges. What can be done with 9 billion? That's a more than 1% reduction in insurance bills, for example - that's more than a 1% reduction in the insurance bill as high as possible. The secretary of finance here complains that there is no room for delinquency. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are things you can do for 9 billion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u22	Mr. President. I'm not gonna answer that question because the claim is wrong. This is not so that nine out of ten dollars will be placed in their pockets. It's just wrong. It's just a bullshit question that doesn't deserve an answer. However, it is also wrong that this has been at 12.7 billion fishing costs in 2012. What was collected in 2012 is 9.7 billion. That's only 3 billion. There is nothing more than a misinformation that the collected year after the year is 3 billion less because the following year, 9.2 billion were collected. Whatever it is. A senator has the bottle to do this is to take into account all kinds of discounts that are in the system and result in much less hunting costs. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] That's it. It's only fine that those who speak for this cause are going to raise the rate of 10 billion. [[Up front.]] It's just... [[Take it to the top, and lower the insurance bill...]] [[The president calls.]] This is...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u23	The President's asking for a sound in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u25	The President's asking for a sound in the Senate Hall. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has become, and the President is trying to find himself here in this council meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u26	This is so that those who thought that the left government was not going to raise the cost of hunting in 20 billion no longer need to doubt because it is now announced that hunting costs would be raised by 10 billion if these men were to be hired, and those who raised the insurance rate all the time during the last term, but it has not been said that they would have dropped it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u27	President. A little lighter. Industrial organizations count the number of apartments in production twice a year. The figure is that two men get into a car and drive through a city and build and handle a number of apartments. This gives some statistics as to how many apartments are fliers and has not yet become flammable. These data are used for various functions. It has now been shown that there is a growing need for apartment construction since the past few years. Right now, we are getting into the process that we have been building as many apartments as we need. However, according to trade figures, some 10,000 apartments are needed in the next three years. In the past, there have been situations in which the camp has had to be built quickly, the Aegean project at the Cove, the Breed Place, and so forth. But it's interesting where this data came from, i.e. Structural decisions are made based on specific needs and data. The data are two in a car to handle an apartment in a building, and it is obvious that such data are not very accurate. How many rooms are there in a building? What is meant to be? What is the purpose of the apartment, is it an older citizen's apartment, student, social, or general apartment? My question is, why can't I as a public citizen look up building information, how many apartments, and when are they ready? Where are the necessary information that is used as the basis for decisions on structure and various economic models on which our economy is built?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. This is one of the points discussed in a recent New York City apartment Mass that pointed out that the number of apartments in the building has not been kept sufficiently tight enough. There are information available on the Haust lab site, which is only different in its methodology than the industrial organization in its own language. At this meeting it was considered, among other things, that this could become one of the projects of an act, to keep it in place, for all the data involved in residence buildings have one or another to enter there, or could be called in from the rural areas that are holding on to organizational matters. At the top. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The Environment and Resource Minister is now opening up a new building area where we will provide both expertise and funding to support how we can expand our apartments, build practical and faster and more careful, while we have considered how to secure better information about the entire housing market. There is something that a service group on my way to the future planning of housing suggested, and so did a working group in whom I was led by difficulty. Ingibjörg Sigríður Ingadóttir in the last term. This set up the number of data available in the system and facing the housing market. There may be more data than you realize, but they are widely distributed in the system. One of our concerns is to get a better perspective on this and perhaps to introduce a little more market thoughts into the building sector than has been before, so that not all of us decide at one time to build large apartments and then for the next four years we're just going to build small apartments, but think of what families are so diverse and varied.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u29	President. Thank you very much. Minister for good answer. Today, it is a very large river walk to enter the housing market into this so - called 25-◯34 year - old group. Today, there are some 6,700 parents who live in a home or 14% of all of them at that age - an increase of some in recent years. According to this, an additional 600 to700 should fit into that group each year. It'll be very interesting to see. There are a number of different groups, including elderly, students, etc. which will be needed in the next few years. I'd like to reiterate that there is a regulations in operation that includes the responsibility of other communities and other peoples to report to the building class and to how many apartments are in progress. [[The president calls.]] It seems that this has failed and that it is the highest. A minister is suggesting that there may be a change in that, if I understand correctly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u30	A respectable president. I thank you again for your forward request. We'll review it now, and that's part of the cooperation of the three Ministers I mentioned, how best to behave. There have been an active environmental and resource-based group that has studied the building policy and is apparently a wide range of suggestions on how to make sure that a more economic facility can be built than has been done so far. Then I realize that there are even some suggestions that are about to change, so they need to bring a bill here for the council to meet those ideas. We can see that the latest projections of an investment in an apartment building are expected to increase considerably next year and the next year from what the situation has been. We also see that the number of early buyers has become comparable to what he was during the months before a crash, and contracts have become more than they were in that number. [[The president calls.]] But there is also a problem, such as why. One senator said, "We need to increase the number of apartments, and we need to make sure that they are as varied as possible because of the different circumstances in which people live. "
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u31	A respectable president. Another sentence against the oil companies and their efforts at a gas market has come up, and I ask the minister of competition if he agrees that in the gas market, conditions have been unacceptable for years with excessive costs for car owners in the country. The Contestance Commission argues that this is an excess of the material that can be studied by 20 K. On every gas plate sold in the country. There may be over 4 billion people involved in an unusual strain on homes in the country that is worth tens of thousands of dollars for each country's home. I'm asking the secretary of finance if he agrees with this assessment. It is noted that the financial advantage of the partners is accompanied by the use of fuel. It is said that when the crown weakens, the society's profits are usually increased, as the prices are far less common to consumers than the rise in prices. It is going so far as to talk about that in these years, 2005◯2012, there has been a silent market coordination between the unions, which has created them a shelter for this unnatural price. I'd like to ask the secretary of finance to what action the government intends to take to stop this intolerable fuel market monologue, how to increase the competition or whether the Minister thinks it is possible, now that we've tried free prices on this market since 1990 with little success due to the abnormal competitive inhibitory actions of these partners and a conspiracy against consumers in the sections, to resort to public prices in a gas market to stop this yoke on car owners.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u32	A respectable president. Now I haven't read all the reports of the Contestant Board, but I've studied its basic conclusion. Among the things it shows are that shopping has resulted in the growth of single effort in that field, i.e. that in recent years, people have taken all fuel, like the same supplier, but if I get it, the odds are reduced that men are actually competing. Now, no one has ever doubted that there are so many in Iceland that there are few in this area, but that doesn't mean there can't be any fierce competition between the few people. Hv. A senator mentions an intolerable monopoly, but I notice that among the partners who compete at this market, there are considerable differences in both the nature of the operation, with some being just about half of the rolling fuel dealers while others are in such activity alone. Some have had an excellent business change, while others have been mostly small or absent. When I studied these main findings, I would say that there was no sort of suggestion at the Contestance Commission to solve the problem described there. Nor did I notice that men had found out that the deed had been a competitive offense, leaving us with questions of the kind that are being raised here. I believe public prices are a terrible solution to the problems facing us, i.e. How we can increase competition in this market. What it seems to me is an enormous amount of overinvestment, and it would be most desirable to encourage money law to free them of overinvestment and create greater profits that should be used by consumers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u33	A respectable president. Now I don't quite understand what the ultimate thing is. Secretary of finance is telling us. Is he telling us that at the regional competition, in Iceland's gas market, there's a fierce competition? Is it the minister's opinion that there's a bitter competition in the gas market, or does he agree that there's a silent coordination or reason to believe that quiet coordination is going on? The minister believes that fuel prices may be about 20 k. too high a litre for lack of competition, or does he think it is a fierce competition? If he has no resources, why does he reject official prices? Why can small countries, liberals and markets, such as Luxembourg and Belgium, use public prices to prevent such yokes on consumers but not relevant? How long should we expect billions of homes to be taken from our homes each year into excessive yokes of gasoline without having anything to do with this council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-07-48.u34	Mr. President. I would like to approach them in this matter as well as others like to listen to reason and counterargument. On behalf of the people on this mountain, there have been counterarguments. I haven't made it perfectly clear whether this has been some condition that has shown some kind of offense to consumers or to some level of prowess. I'm asking myself, is there any way that the exorbitant care can be taken if there's no cash involved? You have to ask yourself that. However, I mentioned overinvestment, and that's certainly so there are too many gas stations, especially in the capital area. Spreading oil around the country is also very expensive, and I think the Contestance Commission did the right thing by allowing the Buddies to work with it to some extent. If there should be some public prices, we'd have to do a joint shopping trip to the country, look like it to me, or how do men with a different cost of shopping have to sit up with one common public price? [[The president calls.]] There are many questions that do not go unnoticed when this is sled out. We need to continue to monitor this market, I'm glad the report has been published, and let's take this discussion more objective and objectively than we do in a two-minute question period. [[The president calls.]]
