ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u1	Borist has written a letter from a 10th senator named Smoke. n., Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, that he can't attend a meeting at his next session. So today, at General 1st, a deputy of Pirata's district name, Halldóra Mogensen. Halldóra Mogensen has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Health, Ministers of Social Affairs, and Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u3	A respectable president. Last week, the news reached its height. A sea chief announced that there would not be a contribution of the bill for the fishing management of this council due to the controversy of the board on the subject. Not only that, but the minister also said that there is no chance that the bill would appear above the head of this council. It is of great interest to note that both members of the administration have had their declared policy in the government to work on the basis of so - called reconciliation committees since their last term that they should not reach land with their work. The work and conclusion of the committee were based on a premeditated form of national possession of resources in constitutions and treaties on that basis. Thus, it seems that elements within the governmental parties hold in their private possession rights of the hunting rights so that no work can be done on the basis of the reconciliation committee. That's why I want to ask the highest. Whether he is concerned about this situation or not. Is it not completely unacceptable that nothing will happen during this time in the fishing business? Is it so that the Independence Party has no authority in the case of the government and can prevent work on this basis? And is it not the monopoly that, as expected in the co-work board proposals, is responsible for making further work changes in the fishing system?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u4	A respectable president. Hv. A senator does not have to fear that nothing will happen during the election season, as he put it. Though it is no doubt burned by the experience of the last term, fearing that things can go as they were, that fear is unfounded, and good work has been done under the top. a sea chief who will be useful even if the matter is not completed at this appointed assembly. However, when it became clear that the matter would not be completed during this council, the minister specifically mentioned and repeated that he would apply himself to it, and the administrative groups together that the Constitution would guarantee that national resources would be guaranteed. In other words, I answer a basic question. The senator's yes. It is important to sort out the status of seafood and for many years have been by ensuring the national resource constitution. It's going to be the most important thing in the world. A sea chief minister and a pleasure to hear what was happening. A senator agrees on the importance of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u5	A respectable president. I welcome this statement to the highest degree. The prime minister also wants to encourage him. Of course, this is not a case of supreme importance. In this regard, a powerful seafaring minister, rather than a single one, needs to be directed by the government and the forward movement class. There is a review of the Constitution. The proposals for a new resource possession need to be seen during the next few weeks if they can be placed in a bill in the fall and adopted in time so that national votes can be submitted along with next spring elections. I'd like to encourage the highest, too. The prime minister to be bold in thinking and not subject to little in these agreements. It requires a national national property principle that ensures the nation's true control over the resource. It's worth remembering. The prime minister does not need to rely on the Independence Party in this regard, since the forward category and the administration stand are united with 2/3 votes at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u6	A respectable president. I thank you for the exhortations and objections to the government, as well as thanks for what I understood as a declaration at any time. The senator to support the important task of ensuring in a clear and conclusive way the Constitution of the nation's ownership of this resource.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u7	A respectable president. It comes only incontrovertible tone from government leaders these days because of the better conversation that lies ahead of us. V.E.G. The prime minister has made it very clear that he wants to improve the terms of low and intermediate groups. In fact, he has stated that it is important to consider the status of the lowest paid groups in the past. Recently, the highest was reached. A letter written by the chairman of the Ephings, where he was asked about his position in the yet future dress interview. I'm not going to make that letter specific to the subject, but I'd like to ask the highest. Prosecutor in the answer he published under the heading "How to Deal With Success. " It states the highest. The prime minister that he spoke of an increasing increase in the level of crowns and then goes on to break the increase in money and the fear of losing one's share in the work, i.e. Improved economic conditions, should not be reduced to the exchanges for everyone. He goes out by saying that humans must know how to cope with success as well as adversity. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, for he has, of course, repeatedly spoken about our considering the lowest salary. If we look at the demands of the unions where the lowest paid groups are, I would mention, for example, the Work Programme requiring that the lowest tax is not less than 300 of you. K., it is not unreasonable or high standards if we take as an example the government's standards of consumption. And if we look at the fact that 10% of the people are under low income limits and also watch the fact that there is enough money in the community, it's about how they're represented. I also mention what the president of VR has said, it's time to consider how we split the cake. There are also low - paying groups inside. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Does he support the raise of crowns, especially for the lowest paid groups? He insists that the lowest tax is not less than 300 of you. K.? Is it the work of the poor 10 percent to cope with success? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Or is it not more the task of the others who have more to do with their hands? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u8	A respectable president. I think me and what. A senator will almost agree on the importance of setting priorities in such a way that they will be especially able to meet people with less income and intermediate income and that they are done well, even best, with emphasis on the rise of crowns. There is some evidence that, despite some increases in centennial numbers, such elevations have led to a percentage increase in pay, however, in many cases and in frequent periods. A new report has just been published on the workforce of contracts. It shows that pay distribution is more balanced in 2014 than it was in 2006. More important, they give thanks for the promotion of crowning. So: Yes, a respectable president, as I have repeatedly declared, I believe that centenarian increases are a reasonable approach to the collective agreements. As to the question of the lowest rate, we would probably agree on that, me and the other. Senator, to 300 of you. K. does not pay too much, but it also takes to consider that a person can achieve the minimum wage with normal employment but that pay is not developed to the point where a person is expected to have a very low wage but a large proportion of the wages, even half the pay in the end, will be provided with additional pay. I think it would be desirable that the basic wage would be sufficient for people to live up to their necessities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u9	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the answers, this is a very important message for me during the final talks that lie ahead of us. The fact is, even though the pay distribution is more equal today than it was in 2006, which is a cause for rejoicing, we still have a vast number of people under the low limit of poor people. There must be something we can combine to do, by our actions at this place, at the General Assembly, to force us to reduce our numbers in that group, if we don't have to look at poverty in an Icelandic community where there is a lot of money. It's about how we distributed it, so thank you very much. Prime Minister for the Answers. I think that we agree on the basic factors that to raise the lowest wage in particular, it is good to consider the increases in the dollar number. I agree with the highest. Prime Minister that we are expected to see normal day work, not the fact that people are adding to themselves with constant extra work. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: How does he picture himself at the highest? By means of a government, we can make conversation ahead of a going - ahead?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u10	A respectable president. I have repeatedly declared that the government is very open to proposals, indications and solution from the labour market, i.e. We are open to ideas about what we can do. Clearly, it is the way the state operates in exchange, taxation, and so forth. While there we have truly been willing to connect with the labour market partners, housing issues have also been mentioned separately. It is not likely that the facilities will get mixed up in the talks in hand. What preparatory work has taken place there, as it were, on the part of governments. A senator knows, and hopefully she can help with the contracts and, at the same time, improve the position of both the tenants and those who want to invest in housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u11	A respectable president. I'd like to have a place to talk to. The prime minister of a project that may be in full swing, which is about to be decommissioned. You have become a little bit distracted by some plan of delinquency, some plans to be made public, and some plans to wonder what you would like to believe that such plans have not been seen by the day. I'm sure they're picking up like I hear one before. A senator here says to himself, but I would like to wonder if there could be a difference between the members of the board in this matter as part of the process. I feel like the highest. The prime minister often speaks as if a delinquency is focused on getting into Icelandic society, public funds, being able to pay for hundreds of billions of dollars, not merely removing seas and setting up voluntary capital transports, but being there some funds that Iceland can use for all kinds of projects. I believe that this approach, if I have understood Prime Minister correctly, is a major goal. I think it can be difficult, e.g. If we tax an air tax, an exfil, to justify such taxation in the courts if it is about creating a large profit in Iceland. Also, I can imagine that such a approach is subject to a number of economic problems, that if there are grow in this process, a few hundred billion, it would have the same effect of injecting money into the economy and simply printing money like that. [[The president calls.]] The highest. The prime minister told me clearly whether he views the process of decommissioning as a matter of creating a large fund?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u12	A respectable president. I'm starting to get a bit of a tan at hearing a attitude. A senator's main position is this project, which is lifted. A senator for the overcrowded demands of the banks. Hv. A senator seems to have their best interests at heart, fearing that governments will act in a way that will make him disagree. A respectable president. This is, in fact, a very simple matter, as has repeatedly been considered during a discussion at the council and elsewhere. In order to be able to lift capital capital capital capital capitals, there is a period of time that will prevent decommissionation from threatening economic stability in Iceland. It was that I thought, that the word was undisputed. The late bank manager has studied this many times; economic scholars have reviewed it. I thought it had become totally undisputed that in addition to decommissionment it had to create economic space, so I don't really know how to deal with this approach yet. A senator, that he sees it in some way as a failure, or that human pigs are being treated if it is opened a clear way out here with capital support. I'm just so surprised to hear this approach that I need to get over it before I continue to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u13	A respectable president. I seem to have managed to come to the highest. Prime Minister in balance with my question. He'll have time to calm down and I'll explain my point even further. There's no debate here that makes so much room. It is most likely that if there is going to be an eco-efficiency of Icelandic economic transport, the final result will be hundreds of billions of dollars collected in Iceland's Secret Bank. I have heard a very important argument that the crowns raised there must not be used in Iceland on all kinds of projects because it really is the same as printing the Icelandic crowns. Everyone knows what the economic effect would have, it would simply cause inflation, it will eat up itself. It's the highest. Does the prime minister disagree with that diagnosis? And I've also heard that it would be difficult to justify it before courts if we put on such an eviction tax if it was prepared as a fund for the government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I've heard those two arguments. It's the highest. The prime minister has recovered and can he answer whether he understands these reasonings?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u14	A respectable president. I haven't yet been able to understand why. The senator of the claimary position and the in some way they are being sued if a so - called eviction tax was adopted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u15	Never said that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u16	Of course, in regard to the question of how the state uses the taxation funds, whether by enfilm or by other taxes, the State needs to be careful not to contribute to financial expansion. This is not to say, however, that hundreds of billions of people are going to be in a single year's construction project. On the other hand, if the state's position improves, it means that the State doesn't have to pay as much interest each year and is better equipped to make use of it, especially in the welfare system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u17	President. I hear there are more ministers in this house than there are the highest. Prime Minister. In view of the highest. The secretary of the state called for a conversation about the need to establish a national security unit because of the alleged threat of terrorism, I would like to ask the highest degree. Secretary of State whether or not the proposals there have been added to the highest national security policy. Minister will measure in the near future. The Federal Parliamentary Committee on National Security Convention proposed such policies less than a year ago to minister. According to the revised Constitution, it is anticipated that the course will be submitted on February 27, the second. I wanted to ask you if it's the highest. A minister believes that it will be established that it will be brought forth on the 27th day. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister of State whether in his national security policy there will be any change from the proposal. A Senate committee submitted last year and especially on top of the highest level. Minister must find ideas about national security and additional police clearances. I'd like to finally ask the highest. Secretary of State whether he believes the defence should be in his custody or at the highest level. Minister of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u18	A respectable president. To answer the defense question, it's like what? A senator is known, and this is determined by a court order. I think the type of change that has been going on is pretty good and is no reason to change it, where you save your defenses, etc. To answer a good question, why? A senator of national security policy, I presume we will have some plans for when it enters the council. I don't think I'm going to claim it. Based on the proposal that I have and what I have been suggested by the Committee. A senator sat in. A national security department or increased police authority is not expected to be in that direction, but it may not be its purpose. There is, however, a very different subject for discussion. However, the proposal is based on the work of the Committee, based on the ideas presented there. Of course, there are some ideas and suggestions, but the foundation contains ten teams. Yes, it is suggested that the establishment of a National Security Council, as we mentioned in our work at this fine committee. I hope that's the long way to answer that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u19	President. Thank you very much. Minister of state for good answers. It is very important that we distinguish between national security and national security. From what has been discussed in the small discussion that I think we need to take, I would have thought that the National Security Council has far more extensive sources than to deal with terrorism. With national security department, we're also talking about increased research clearances to have pre-active intelligence against the citizens of the country. It is very important that we separate these things and have a very clear policy on what is under which department. I wanted to ask the minister if he has any opinion about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u20	A respectable president. I think that the switch to missions at the Council of Control, when it comes to defense and security, is fine right now. No doubt some things can be explained. I think the defenses have just arrived at the State Department and local cases where they are today. Of course, these issues overlap at times or can do so. With regard to national security, national security, and the work we went on in this committee, we can be sure of that. A senator mentioned the threat of terrorism, whether it is more disturbing today than it was a year or two years ago, what the world's trend has been at that time, etc. This is a matter that we need to review regularly, how we set priorities, and how we weigh risks at any given time. I'm not going to tell you whether or not this authority or anyone else should have it. I have to say, however, that it is my opinion, and it is not relevant to whether I am a foreign minister or not, that I believe the police should have the necessary authority to protect us citizens, but they need to take care of that authority. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u21	Mr. President. V.E.G. Prime Minister has now answered my request for the government's downcoming insurance. The highest answer. Minister on deck. 969 must lead to disappointment, even despair, among candidates. In answer to the minister's reply, there's nothing new. The highest answer. A minister is not a repeat subject of the Board's Homepage since May 2014. The fact is, security has been established since the start of the current government seems to be the only action of the government to improve the diversity of the loan market as a loan insurance bill. However, low inflation and rising housing prices should be ideal conditions in order to reduce the value of insurance on the loan market, but this has not been new. The only stringent proposal by the government is to ban securities of loans for a longer period than 25 years, but this proposal will not add to the insured loans of loans. It is very unlikely that those who today take a 40 - year - old financial loan will transfer to disloyal loans. In fact, this action would primarily reduce the security of people with a lower income, since monthly pay loads would be higher and the highest. The secretary of the house provides a wealth when it comes to raising rents despite the wonderful promises. So I want to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Is the failure of the government not apparent a betrayal of the ultimate election code for the forward movement of the Outkeep?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u22	A respectable president. I thought it was a little meaningful a question. Hv. A senator, in effect, took the conclusion in his own question, and the result was wrong, as it were. A senator is to be able to see from the answer referred to and from the work described there. The government is creating enormous changes, in fact, the greatest changes ever made in the financial system here for a very long time by the action described in response to this action. Senator. Therefore, a question of inactivity cannot be answered if it is possible to do so. A senator simply considers the actions being carried out. I can't add much more than that. A senator should read the answer given to a question not too long ago.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u23	V.E.G. President. Public insurance is a system problem in the Icelandic financial market. During the last term, the number of borrowers increased without insurance but from the highest point of view. This trend has been reversed by the prime minister. That's an undisputed fact. It's also a fact, though it's difficult for the highest level. Minister to admit that the government has done nothing to support this trend. This inaction, this obvious betrayal of the ultimate campaign code of the Agency, is surprising. The correction was a direct result of insurance loans. It is therefore important to reduce the value of insurance and increase the variety of loan markets. V.E.G. A minister promised voters that he would cancel insurance, but he could not even reduce its value on the market. I repeat my question: Isn't the failure of the government a clear betrayal of the moving team's explicit promise of disintegration of insurance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u24	A respectable president. I repeat what I said earlier, it's wrong. On the contrary, a senator is able to talk about inactivity when major measures are being implemented, measures based on the proposal of an expert team on disintegration of insurance. Work on decommissionment insurance is in full effect and it is totally wrong to talk about inactivity in this relationship.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u25	A respectable president. I recommend the Committee of General and Education Committee's Committee's Committee of Education... with a new proposal for a bill on foreign matter. For example, consider the name of the committee, along with the adjustment of the proposal. 966. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Jón Vilberg Guðjónsson and Elísabet St Pétursdóttir's daughter from the Ministry of Education and Culture. There were reports from the Icelandic Language Committee, National Analysis of Iceland, the European Union of County Partners, and a nominees. The bill is now submitted for the third time by a slight change from the original bill. The Commission supplied an opinion with a change in proposal for the 143th legislature, but it was not granted. The objective of the bill is to contribute to the protection of nominees and named tradition as part of Icelandic culture. The bill is designed to replace town names, etc., No. 35/1953, adapting and adapting to modern productions and organizational arrangements in the country. It is then recommended that the Management Board be explained and coordinated on the registration of the eagles and the decision-making authority should be given to the general public by bringing responsibility for their names and registration to their rural communities in accordance with the current mode of governance. The people who returned a review of the matter were all positive about their subject. In Comb 4. The bill considers the orders and roles of the Committee to Re-Elect. Commenting on the case of the committee, there are cases of false names or false writing on the standards of public officials. The Commission agrees that it is important that a nomad committee be involved in these matters, in view of the fact that one of the main objectives of the bill is to contribute to the protection of micro-and-name traditions. The Commission suggests a new proposal to make this point so that one of the members of the Committee will have to decide on the names of public members. The names of new natural phenomena are discussed in Article 7. The bill. A review of Iceland's National Research Commission stated that the regulations and solutions of the Micro-Information Committee would affect Iceland's microenvironmental databases, but it would not be taken into account by an announcementary decision-making agent in order to achieve the rightness of the microenvironmental base at any given time. The Commission feels that it is right to sharpen this situation and suggest that if a nominees agree to a proposal, copies of the approved Iceland should be sent to the National Affairs as well as that once a minister has confirmed a new name, the local government or the following cases inform the National Security of Iceland of new names. 1 1. The bill is about changing other laws. In handling the case of the committee, it was noted that changing the law on registration and evaluating real estate, No. 6/2001, it would be important to make sure that the implementation of local station registration would be consulted with the European Union. It would be noted that the rural communities played a significant role in all aspects of work, so it would be necessary to ensure consultation between administrations to all larger decisions and their implementation. The committee agrees with these views and suggests the adjustment of the material. The committee claims that it is very important from cultural and historical value to preserve the subject and also from legal and judicial viewpoints. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes to be found on panels. Ninety-six hundred and they're in some committee party like I've been tracking here. Under the committee wrote to Director Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson, Guðu Hannesson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Olsen Olnarsen Gunnarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Árnason, and the Helgi Fraffen Gunnarsson writes under advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u26	A respectable president. First and foremost, I want to take advantage of the opportunity to celebrate the arrival of this matter that we now see to it that it will be done. As shown in the bill, its background is based on the encouragement of the 2011 prime committee, where the committee concluded the need to revise the law on local names, etc. like these songs are now. As a result, this work was attacked. In the history of memory as minister of education and culture in 2012, the staff has been appointed and has had to deal with quite a number of interesting subjects in the agreement of this bill to legalize the matter. Twice before, it has been submitted, and it has been proposed for the third time by means of a slight change from the original bill. The main point, however, is to place a comprehensive set of laws on this part of culture, which may not be a great subject for discussion in our daily conversations, but I remember that when the eruption began at the Pentateuch, and in my memory it was a minister, there was a lot of debate about the name of the buttons. There were some ideas, but because the government's financial situation was at that time, there were some ideas that we would sell the particles, offer them to eBay, and they could buy what was best for them and other things. Several such ideas came to mind, and I had to take some decent interviews about it. I also began to think, " What are these nicknames that we have all around us, whether they are street names or other names? ' What is behind it? This is an important reference to how we have given landmark names around us so far, tells us something about the national soul, says something about the changed times when street names in Reykjavík changed and some streets were decided to be named after women who were very freshly present. In general, though, our noses do not go by people. Although more men than women have been named after their heads, they are generally not named after humans, unlike many capital cities in the north, where very many streets are named after prominent individuals. In our case, it is more common for us to go to nature or cultural sources. Scholars have dealt with this, and I do not risk myself to that extent. We often see this in the form of an eagle that is obvious to us from where we come from. Gufu Valley, Smokey Valley, Reykjavík, there it is obvious that we are witnessing the earth's heat around us. Other nicknames have been controversial, and they include the famous natural name theory, which suggested that in some way all particles should be rooted in nature, but later the literature would have influenced the way we interpreted the microns, and we began to believe that the microns would be rooted in literature and culture rather than in nature. As I'm saying, there are a lot of nicknames that tradition tells us to come from the culturalist. Because I'm a smoker, and I've named Reykjavík, I can name Esja, of course, the trolley of Kjaluning. Then, misapprehensible things can cause great heartache to the public. I remember well when I was traveling through the Westfarthing with the Vega Handbook, waiting excitedly to see the town of Umsval. I had developed various theories of my little vocabulary skills about what could have been behind this town name, the Umvens. I saw in the spirit of a Danish farmer who would have settled there, but it shows that the city's name was Upps, not Umsvals, and so all my teachings fell to the ground. The same is true of fat valleys. I also realized that they had lived in a rather unfortunate place. It was the next town after Umsvegur, the name of which was The Valley of Feigs. It was a thirsty journey, but it shows how much the particles are in our culture, what we usually do about it, and how we feel it is behind us. When something completely incomprehensible appears that we do not understand anything, simple explanations, such as those in the Vega Handbook, are misunderstandings. This shows what this is all about our environment, so I'm really happy about it, and I hope this bill will be accepted. Finally, I'd like to take this opportunity to say that I agree with the proposal made by the Committee for Justice and by a Icelandic seminar. Am I right? It goes on to show that a nominee committee is also involved in making judgments about government names and signs. There's something that I've also noticed, not as an expert, but as an amateur of Icelandic chemical tradition, that there is often a discrepancies, so I rejoice that the committee will make this change for now and hope that we will be able to complete this bill at this council. Looks like everything's going for it. I think the legal and environment of this group will look to a great improvement if we can watch this whole thing, not only in rural areas but also urban areas. Other than that, I will not extend this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u27	Mr. President. Here is a countermarked subject that deserves attention. Thank you. A full-scale and educational committee for apparently, and the changes it suggests, which I think soon to be looked at are all well thought-up and improved. I would like to say, though, regarding this matter that I would have rejoiced to learn more about it, either on the part of my life. Or in a paper with the bill, which I have not read end-to-line, how these cases generally appear in us about the preservation of culture in this regard, and the lofty goals that are fine, to ensure that they will be maintained for future generations. It is more powerful to deal with the names of new eagles and to resolve any disagreements if they do, and to agree on that. This does not really address the situation as it is otherwise, or look back on the fossilisation and processing of the existing data. Now it may be that there is nothing here at all but learning. I think it would be interesting, though, to get a better overview of it and to show where we are on our way to preserve and maintain and to carry to the future generations of this culture because I fear it would be a pretty fragile thing to do in certain areas of the country. This is my experience in handling these matters - of course, she has become somewhat rusty and not. During the past few decades, I have occasionally been working on projects related to the position of these matters. I did so as a student in geology and in geological research at one time. I once came to make a round view or a disk in an unnamed place on the land. [[We want to know where.]] This is further stated on Gunnar's base of about 100 feet [110 m] above the sea, and on that dial there are probably about a hundred eagles. It's a very small part of the world, very open, very beautiful around a mountain circle. On bright weather, hundreds of eagles can be detected and seen from a distance of some 60 miles [60 km] to the mountainous region of Crossfarmers east of weapons and into the Hampyard, near the north of the Hol Mountains. Of course, what was interesting and remarkable about that work was how difficult it was to verify various nicknames and how different maps are defective and even how difficult it can be to get clean, as far as the best and the best - to - know men can do. I can only say from an example that it was found that the sludges and hills and mountains on the outside of Langanei, which were clearly seen by this site - where they proved to be named on a cross, and we found that maps were wrong in a few cases. We called on all the older and more determined individuals in the area that we thought would help us to learn and plan on this in good weather up there. It was soon discovered that humans did not always agree. The locals did not even agree, much less that professional cartographers could have realized this in their time. This leads you to think of the old micron files - a remarkable work that mainly came up in the middle of the last century, if I remember correctly, by traveling through the country and by interviewing the local people. Marked files were produced that are undoubtedly the most valuable database, despite up to nominees. But they were a child of their time, and they were all over the stuff, let's say, and then they weren't processed in a way that would have been extremely desirable, to follow up that collection on the logs and go on trying to verify, comparing, and talking with people, what would be most appropriate in these materials. In my opinion, this may be the largest part of preserving this culture, and however earlier, it would have been, i.e. To try to save, as long as knowledge is present, all things that will be saved of things as they have been used through the ages. Why is this particularly urgent now? Yes, it is because this knowledge is being lost very quickly. One reason is that the conquest has become different. For example, we can use the sheep's livestock and the winter bait. When much more was gone through the land, and the inheritance passed from generation to generation, the eagles were important, the sheep needed to know exactly which hill they were or where they lay. All of these had names for convenience so that they could be referred to as being there or in the other place. Now it's very different. The country on foot, less riding, and travel may be affected by snow when everything is deep in the father's body and not always easy to identify, etc. But most likely, at least in my experience, this is because it is ludicrous and such trips around the country, walking or riding, which are often engaged in the keeping of these things, at least when something comes from towns. The most desirable thing to do is to do it in a complete way with an organized work that was going to process all the available data, collected into the blanks, because they are still there. The files were misinvolved and subjugated by different sources, or different methods were used to collect information at the time. The best thing to say is, I don't know how much has been added except in local areas, people have done it well. It is enough to mention the most brilliant book of nicknames in Snow, where priceless civilization is put into writing and thus preserved. If the descriptions are clear, it will take a long time for a person, although, of course, it is good to use technology and then move the microns onto maps and/or position them with coordinates. This has been done in unique farms. There people have cleaned up and carefully developed a micron file for the farms. It is often that in the vicinity of the towns, hundreds of eagles will be divided if they are taken down to the small country, but then they will drift farther away, but I will make sure that several thousand acres of earth usually reside over some hundreds of particles. There is a bit of a fund in each case, so you don't talk about bigger ground. When they are tens of tens, or even hundreds of square miles, they can be expected to divide thousands, if not lost. I just want to come up with these thoughts, Mr. President, because I care about this. I wonder what. A committee has made some progress in this aspect of the matter. If not, it would be a worthy task to review our situation in this regard. I don't think that's a plan unless it's taken time. Of course, this project would have been of great value had it been possible for humans to have done more in this case before the huge changes in agricultural development and migration and the decrease in rural population, etc., over the past few decades, all went through. However, it is always important to hold back and save what is being saved. Secondly, I'd like to ask myself some definitions here on the bill in Article 2. that refer to foreign matter. It says, by permission of the president: A nickname is a name, word, or phrase, on a geographic point, a line, or an area that can be set on a map, pointing to a place within a particular community; land, region, rural areas, urban areas, houses, streets, squares, roads, mountains, valleys, lakes, distances, sea area, crop, etc. In my opinion, this is a slightly too limited definition. It is not always that the name, or name, of at least, which is now a fairly common name here, always refers to a certain location. We often have an eagle that refers to an area where even the definition of the size and scope of the region is not quite pure, but it is not entirely important. Some such titles have even come into play, and none of them are very old. This, for example, is not an extremely old name for the Grinch. [[Take it up to a new one.]] It's relatively new, but very firm. What's the Grinch? Is there any one particular place? No, it's all the highlands between the Eyjafjords and the Tegaves, north under Siglunles, and far south after the peninsula into some of them. [[Up front.]] Actually, I think the Grinch is gorgeous. He's gorgeous. That's how I could keep going. There are many particles that are local names. In this respect, the definition here is a little too limited in my opinion. There may be no problem, for the letter of the Law will probably not change the language or the way these things develop and actually happen. I am not an opposer to hold this with an organization, such as new names, for discipline must be in the army, as Sveik said. But I'm at the same time a little afraid to get into overcommunications because to me it's a living, imminative relationship that comes from men giving names to things. Perhaps a title has been forgotten, and no longer exists who remembers the name of that valley or of the whales or of the whales - of course, everyone here in the hall knows what the whale means - is. Then others may come and think it's impossible for this place to have a name and a name for it. I think someone should have a right to do that somehow. This will probably be done on some level even without going the formal route and announcing it to the registration, etc. I have had a relatively recent share in mentioning a mountain. Who did that, Mr. President? Yes, we did. We only did it to the gang at Dalshei. We just decided that a good - looking mountain inside the wilderness would be named after our fallen mountain rider, the Friðgeir of Guðjónsson - blessed be his memory - so we named him Mount Geira. I have no idea if the books have come or have been announced to the nomad, which is now called Mount Geira among us who travel through these lands several times in the autumn. At any rate, it will not be altered in our case. Just to illustrate how things can work out. Finally, I would like to discuss the names of new phenomena. There is a need for some sort of resolve. Let's say it's good and we're about to run lava. Who are likely to give it their first name? There are locals, or, for example, scientists, geologists. [[Take it up: TV.]] - Then the press can try to steal the crime. But I think there are quite a lot of examples about the fact that there are either local people and/or scientists who work for their own sake at the scene that name things like work names, though there are no more to start with. Often, they have their names established. Now I don't know for sure, but I'm thinking that it was Sigurður by Þórarinsson, or one of his colleagues, who named Surtsey. I guess not. At least he's got something on his mind. For example, it would be helpful to examine the origin and stability of her title Surtsey. They've talked about Holunun on the northern Dyngjokul because it had a lava trick coming out of a soda a few years ago that named it. Then people have wondered, " Is this new and great lava, the biggest lava in Iceland, after the Lakigogos, not to be given a proper name? ' Is that what it's supposed to be, Fleaáun or Nornauun or anything like that? If this does not occur in such a way that, gradually, one name will win, you may need to understand it, for it is shocking that the same phenomenon has many names, although there are very few, of course. In that sense, I have no objection to any system. But still, I'm at odds, I just have to admit that, in some way it also needs to submit to its own laws, as it has always done. Even there is nothing wrong with the same phenomenon, seen from a different direction, the names of more than one name, compare the famous mountain in the north with three names, an impossibility Mountain, Bakgatangi, and Galti, from where it comes from, the very same mountain in itself, and famous in literature. When it comes to rural society, it may be a little more difficult. In recent years, this has been a significant challenge because large communities have been being united, and more often than not, one of them has not held their name. In some areas, large urban areas may have been in the community, which has made up more rural communities, but this may be fragile. Then people have gone to invent new titles, and some not quite enough, I think. Even if they are geographic or historical, they are sort of a discrepancies. I'm not going to give an example in this context because it would be delicate, but I'm thinking that in some cases it did not work well, including because others had somehow no objection. It is almost possible to say that the names were partially stolen from another area, another location at another time, but somehow they had no access to it. A new community even chose to do so in popular elections and titles that bruised in that election, not always so geographically or historically as what you thought was the best result. This is where the Committee's blessed something to handle. I think it's a good approach to bring the communities, as is suggested here, a more rich role and responsibility in these activities than to consult with a nominee committee and all of that, so hopefully they'll work out well in all of this. A respectable president. These were the notes I wanted to do most of the time here. In case the case comes back to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. I would have been glad to wait. A committee to look at this with the definition of the concept and the delinquency of the phenomenon, which I feel is just too narrow, as I have come to. Then I don't know how to handle this. I don't know if there's anything to do in the law text itself that covers this double nature of the problem, either to have some organization to clear this up, to settle a disagreement if it's available about what a place or some thing should be hot, or without choking that the particles will always exist, of those living in that area, travel around the relevant area, or use the relevant region, and have a basic need for a foreign name. This, of course, has usually been the case and would have to be a future. It has to do with the continuation of this land and larger areas than the already desolated land. Hopefully, that won't be, enough of the urban disorder has become. Of course, it is the most important and effective preservation of this culture that people live in the areas in which they live, and they know and know what things are called and fit, for a pragmatic reason, that inheritance will not go to the courtyards.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u28	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's cognition for the speech, and he agrees with him on the importance of the protection of the eagles. This matter is especially important, but at first it seems to be more complex. I want to draw special attention to Article 11. which is about a change in other laws to ensure that the purpose of the law is met. These include the provision of Iceland's National Focal Points to enable the public to record the biomarkers in the Agency's special database because it is important to ensure public participation in the registration of microsonics so that it is easy to make it possible for the scientific public to set micromarkers out of the particulate matter in its proper place. At the same time, there is no basis for mention of more than one eagle in such a database, which is extremely important. It was noted that the work required to do at that time is started at the 143th Parliament, our last team. One example is that older people in the city of Rhojadal, Germany, have formed a group and record an eagle directly into the database with good results. I would like to direct the question to the senator if he felt that this method could penetrate the registration process, which is certainly very important and guarantee the future preservation. I know there's a lot more that matters, it takes, for example. Remember to keep track of the old registrations that are available on paper. I can't quite figure out what's going on. A senator sees the definition of the term "natures, " or" eagles, " referred to in the definition of a region. I just need a little more coverage to figure that out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u29	Mr. President. It may be a clear definition if a positive interpreter reads the first line that speaks of a geographic point, a line, or an area that can be placed on a map and referred to a certain location, but I pause to see whether there is a certain particular location or not. This will depend on how a person chooses to interpret or read the wording. What I had in mind was that bigger terms, even a little liquid terms, would be fit, names that include a larger area. We can say that even a foreign name is part of the country. The West is just the West, and the Northeast may be a liquid name or an invalid in a large region, and it is not necessarily defined as whether it ends on Brenuk or east of the crime scene, etc. The tula must not be too rigid to exclude the foreign site. That's what I was thinking about. About 1 1. it is, of course, improved that there is a better chance for a person to enter an eagle in special databases and make it available, and it is made easy for people to do so. It's best to be mutual, if you can also get advice and support in bringing it in, let's say that some local company or farm farm town wants to create an invalid file or update an invalid file, it's all good. [[The president calls.]] You're absolutely right. A senator finally mentioned the interest in these matters. In many places, older people, or not only older ones, have become involved in these activities, and may I add to my smoulders, my friends, the great consumer society in Sigllarund, who has worked in a priceless business to keep a name there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u30	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. I'd like to use the second answer to address the importance of the survival of foreign matter. In this way, I think that the box on which this bill is marketed in the bill on foreign matter is, in a number of ways, easier and more flexible than the frame of the law that these laws generates, i.e. Song of town names. The possibility that more than one name can be recorded on the same site, same point, or line, if we use the definition, is very important to keep the nickname developing. Of course, it is a security factor, however, that maps are consistent, and a single version of names appears there. It may be a matter of decision at any given time. Is it possible to say what is the right name at any time? We know the likely debate about those rivers on the northeast corner, called Hölnskur, or Hötnna, which is a classic subject. Then there's a mountain on the farms called "Randool," or Sleak, or Fog boy, depending on where you look at it. A key point is that the legislation is wrapped around these cultural values, while allowing them to continue a living discussion of the land and its vows. Then there may be just one last question: Do you know where Mt. Batman is?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u31	Mr. President. I cannot doubt that the bill is an improvement from the old law on town names, and it is the most excellent work in itself that has been accomplished. What I may have missed was the connection to the situation as it is and has been and how people are going to look after the inheritance that exists in files that may have been overworked or processed. Regarding how we can maintain this tradition and keep it alive and make sure it passes, I'm concerned that there's a little bit of less cultural tradition in making things hot, because as the poet said, a landing would be of little value if it didn't say anything. I may not necessarily agree, but it also makes sense to be able to refer to the titles. It is so accurate that it is good to have more than one name recorded because people use to a considerable degree a different name for the same phenomenon or that the exact identity is not settled, historically speaking. It's something that you throw yourself at when you're going to do something like this, bringing names on a circle, that some names are known and difficult to decide what's right. Often, the method of choosing the qualities that are found by the oldest in print is the one used. It's one of your thumbs. For example, when it had to be determined on this famous chart, which I have made to see if medical sites or clinics were the proper name for them, they were the ones that were found earlier in printed form.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u32	Mr. President. I have said that in the earlier discussion of this case, this is probably the most important case that has ever occurred at the council's shore, and then I do not exclude the sixth part of the convention later on today. Yet, many of us, even those who are able to be fully on the side of the existentialism ever again, often wonder what humans are doing on this journey. It is often that at the end of it, people keep their eyes on the road and on their feet. I remember that when I had spent ten years at a council and two years as a minister, I looked back and wondered what was behind me and concluded that there was perhaps one toilet on the Horn Coast. But that cannot be said of what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon said he lived in vain. A man who's made a periscope in the Gunnar Sea, he's lived, I'm not talking about if it's saved or stuck to the long future of 100 microwaves. I agree with what. A member of the council and the one mentioned here are immensely valuable, and they are quickly lost. That's why I'm gonna tell you a little experience. As it happened, I was brought up to be a very young man with good candidates in Mimorm. I spent a long time there. And if I had ever come true, it was under the hands of the forward party. There I have the name of each one, and I am very attached to my memory. To this day, I can even read from a landscape there, using these eagles. Years later, from the 1920's, I was able to get the card from that same earth, and I carried it so that I could not recognize any foreign name. In fact, very clear information on landscapes that were used, for example, for example, to lay down salmon ores was named quite another name. That's how everything gets lost, and that's why I say: It's going to have to be done in an orderly way to collect an eagle in our time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u33	Mr. President. I'm not going to be a judge on the grounds of whether it's a counter-array case, a bill for a micronom or a motion on the ice age. Of course, the ice age is not an issue, but it is named. Of course, it would be interesting for him to know how that title came into existence. Is it the suggestion that this name be named, to name the species of ice age? But it is true that the titles are also closely linked to this inheritance, even though they are not a nickname or the names of natural phenomena in the sense of being a hill or a hill, a mountain, or a stream, or whatever it is, but a living phenomenon or other phenomenon of nature. In my speech, I put it just as it were. A senator came in only, of course, that it was very important to record and preserve this. Now we've got the technology, yes, we do. Now, there is no problem with digital maps and GPS pillars and locations making this very accurate, but we must not fail to resist the effort to save all that will be saved. I'm sure there's a lot of lost, but there's no question. In this way, it may have been always up to a degree that the microns have evolved, changed, some lost, and others have been replaced. Of course, we may continue to do so even if we have the foundation, the knowledge that we have today's best. That's the way it was, it's called things in the time of our fathers, our ancestors, our formalists. Then it all develops. So I'll take it to the what? A senator agrees with me that what would have to be done in connection with this case, the quality that this law might be, would be making significant progress in working out and documenting it better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u34	Mr. President. Of course. I believe it is a very important thing to be in charge of the planned collection of eagles. The discussions here have been between two years. The members of the council, the Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfurson and the Linehésé Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdóttirs, the Sigfjörður of the Modols, and the way men gather things there among the elderly Icelanders, are exemplary. How have we tried to put in a bag an inheritance from the past? Exactly how to make out people who literally walk in front of the aged Icelanders'door and outcast their minds on what kind of knowledge, both about oral talk, and therefore not about nicknames as well? I think it would be very important. What I was trying to say in my short existenial speech earlier is that it is not just that the injectable name is lost, but it is probably not something that has changed as much since land mine as the microns and is infuriated from the sand of time that cannot be seen. In effect, the core of this brief story was my earlier words: In times past, when there were no good maps that men could move on to those things, let alone store them in any other way, I think that there have been a tremendous number of times when the earth had become highly useful and then moved away people, I don't speak about at the end of the 19th century when men left whole provinces and left nothing behind, not even the chemicals. At times, those who then moved to these lands had to start mentioning many of the landmarks, except perhaps the major ones. There is evidence that, I suppose, this is how this will continue to be lost unless one operates in an orderly manner to collect and register. Because they forgot to answer the question that might be Mount Batman, of course it's Brunhorn in Lón.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u35	Mr. President. This is now the most excellent and pleasant exchange of communication. It is a pleasure to discuss this in particular because there is no room for disagreements. Rather, it is a measure of enthusiasm in humans to do better in these matters. I think the next verse is that as a result of this case, they take it under the lead. The Senate Committee, or anywhere, whether there is a need to initiate a plan to speed up and strengthen this organized collection. It is tremendously positive, and it is fun to observe a self - induced initiative in which it is taking place. I think that the experience of this is all the same, that you get the feeling that it may not be later, and may actually be too late to go, but rather than not. At least that's what I've heard from the men who have been working on this in various parts of the country, and it's also my experience that in themselves, only ten years can mean a lot to reach people who still have knowledge and knowledge. It is now that we think of the cultural background of Iceland that we do not have much medieval buildings, castles, and palaces made of stone or stellar materials, but we have quite a variety of oral cultures. Of course, many things have been done to try to save him, such as the collection of the National Museum in verbs and songs and songs, and the recordings of the National Museum are of course priceless treasures, of which little material was done. Today, much less pity for us to handle matters modestly. The chemical ingredients are a very large part of this. They are, in fact, a foundation for enjoying the verb. It wouldn't be nice to read Sturlugu, if no one would know the chemical elements involved in this story anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u36	A respectable president. I once asked why Bard Beach was named, but I was told that it was likely because of the promise of Dorabbar once and that the Bardors Land would draw their name from Dorabbar. One day, Greenland was known as the Greenlandsk, and Iceland was called Cameronsholim. This leads to at least two conclusions; the first is that land miners were rather large, and the second is that the so - called microns have a very living evolution. They change over the centuries and develop as time goes by, either in connection with changes in job practices or in the presence of new natural phenomena. I'm not going to be any objection to the bill that's going on here. It is an excellent thought that is behind it, but I am more a spokesman for a careful approach to the earth in legal procedures and always wonder whether it is absolutely necessary, whether there is any basis for it. I have every reason to wonder about it in these matters because the beauty of the Icelandic micron tradition is primarily in how living it is and how much changes it takes over the centuries. It is true, however, that for those of us who read the ancient stories of our study years because we were told to do so, they wake up first to life when you see the historical and historical events that are discussed, when you gain more knowledge of the land, and can relate history to the subject and region. That's very important. I just wanted to tie up what I was talking about with 1st. this matter, that I think it is important to preserve the living nature of this tradition and how self-improved it has been. I also want to emphasize that the local initiatives are respected in these areas and that there is the same potential as has been so that new particles can arise, and time will reveal a better fit so that they can simply get stuck, as has happened to themselves throughout the Icelandic history. It has not been missing, and in some cases, it is more than one and more about the same phenomenon, and it is only the best, in some cases managed, and it is also fine in my opinion. Sometimes it is said that we are too stubborn, Icelanders, but I think that in these matters it is just innocent and can be classified as a very national sport. We do well to ask ourselves, " What are things to be called? ' I talked about it when I talked about it with a 1st. that new occupations were also shaped the anthropological tradition. In this way, for example, the term "Lawstone " at Sandfell Island has become known for its significance. It is simply a stone in which guests line up before being laid on the glacier. Of course, there is a direct link to today's extreme tourism and nothing but to say that an eagle will exist in that way. I don't exactly recommend this bill to myself. I just want the views to be seen in the discussion that in many cases it is very important and necessary to have a certain state of freedom in these matters and that a self - discipline is felt as far as possible and comes from both the locals and those who travel the country and that it is not being attempted to bind it to such lengths and years of life as it cannot be changed. It has simply been a matter of change over the centuries, and that is, in very few cases, the best.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u37	V.E.G. President. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-change proposal to correct the conversion of electrical law, no. 65/2003, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests a change to III. section 0, No. 65/2003, involved in transporting electrical energy. The bill is offered a concordance proposal for a government resolution on the level of electric lines (321th matter). A- team 1st. The bill is instructed that, in the development of electricity transport systems, this policy should be taken into account. The bill suggests the 22nd floor. The directives of the European Parliament and of the Council 2009/72/EC on the common rules for the internal market electricity will be implemented in this country. The directive contains common rules on production, transport, distribution and delivery of electricity and regulations on consumer protection. The aim of the directive is to improve and integrate a competitive electrical market within the Community. It has not yet been recorded in the EEA Convention but it is considered appropriate to introduce this part, i.e. 22nd a. where the system plan of the transport company is recommended. The bill suggests that the electronic law adds to a detailed framework of the transport company's system and strategies under law. Preparation of a system plan, material content, control status, including with regard to community planning, implementation, and follow-up. In particular, the role of the Power Agency is aimed at agreeing and monitoring the implementation of a system plan. A-team 2. The bill will require that the transport company provide an annual access to the Power System for approval based on a ten-year long-term programme and a three-year implementation programme. D-joins 2. The bill tells the minister that he can set up a Regulation as further as it is necessary to determine how the option analysis will be performed. The majority stress that the option analysis will be performed on the basis of established methodology and show a comparison of different implementations with the proposed transport mechanisms, including comparing earth cable to airline from costs to other factors. The majority of the excerpts in this regard are the views presented in the committee list on the proposal that the Minister should also take into account the Regulation's Regulation. The bill consists of a detailed consultation process on the part of the transport company in preparation of a system plan, as well as as the Power Institute, the review of the System Plan should agree with the specific parties, such as a and b-join 2. In other words, it will be recognized that we should consult the starting stages of a system plan and, in addition, a minister can establish further rules on the consultation procedure in the Regulation. In view of the greater part, this is a significant improvement from the present, and it is hoped that by presenting the interests of interests right at the start, there will be a way to reduce conflict later in the process for individual projects. The majority of the data shows that the approval or rejection of a System Plan on the part of the Power Institute is a welcome administrative decision to the Committee of Electricity on the basis of 1 mg. 30. g. Electrical layer. The decision-or-treating board is independent of its jobs, as per 10 mg. The same articles. Regarding the matter, we noted that in general the career of the legislature is a process of planning and implementing very complex matters. The majority of it is important to consider that streamlining in this regard is important, but with the bill taking steps in that direction, and the decision of the Power Agency for individual projects gets back into the process. The status of the strategy for rural society is an important issue and it is discussed in c- team 2.g. Comments with the bill show that this feature was consulted by the European Union member. However, a few criticisms have been made regarding the handling of the matter in the committee. The majority suggest a final language of 1.mg. will be removed, where it is stated that a rural administration is forbidden to compromise the proposal of the transport company if this will result in failure to meet its obligations according to a system plan. The majority count is 1 mg. Otherwise, the target is reached, i.e. that system plan will have a more solid basis. This suggests the extra part for the 2nd sentence of 1.mg. will be corrected and referred to, not to organizational matters, but to organizational decisions. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following modification: 1st To the c- team 2. (9. g. c): a. Instead of the word "organization, " or organization, in a second language. 1.mg. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. b. Final speech: 1.mg. ... goout. 2. First Painter 3. Put it this way: This law has already come to pass. Kristján L. Möller was away from the case, but literature is considering this with a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. He is deemed to be in advance. A Björt Ólafsdóttir was away from the hearing. Otherwise, the president of President Jón Gunnarsson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Egilsdóttir Eelsdóttir, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Kristján L. Möller, in advance. The Commission suggests that the bill gets normal progress and will be provided for the 3rd Environment. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u38	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament is involved in this matter and its processing under the committee. Now it's so I'm sitting in bed. Environmental and Transport Committee. We had very limited time to give a review. Much of it, of course, has to do with the environment and the organizational affairs of rural society that are under the environment and transport committee, but why. The employment committee was so eager to settle the case from the Committee that she did so prior to the Commission's review. So I want to ask you why. A senator: What is the urgency of this matter? Why is it not easy for the other members of the council to show the minimal urgency of waiting for a review from the commission? This may be the first thing about the work force. Then I'd like to ask you why. A senator with ideas published in the reviews, e.g. A member of the Icelandic Continental Association, known as the Conspiracy Committee. Why is it not done with the work of the Committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u39	V.E.G. President. What's the hurry? asks why. Senator. Thus, the matter was worked in a very similar way, and there is a problem with the committee. Usually it's about two weeks' notice, and I think it's true. An environmental and transport committee has received exactly that time as other sources of information. If I remember things correctly, there was a review. However, some time after the notice has passed, environmental and transport committees were discussed. What's the hurry? asks why. Senator. For the employment board there are a number of very large cases, and it has simply been said to work on the committee to try to resolve matters quickly and safely, but it has not been a concern for the number of people who appear to the committee. A number of people made reviews. In terms of the reconciliation committee, it was not now a major intention to install it there, but we do feel that because of the early implementation of a system plan, all people, economists, interests, will be able to communicate their comments in time, although in some way, before beginning the process. So I don't think this is a problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u40	A respectable president. The key line in response to what is being heard is as well as for other sources of information. Senator. You see, the Allied Environmental and Transport Committee is not like any other authority in this matter. This, of course, is a serious problem. Work committees to have settled the matter without waiting for the Commission to give their opinion, which is in two doses, from the greater part and from the smaller parts, and from the greater negative on the issues and treatments. Both more things and smaller things have considerable bearing on the matter. So I think why. Business committees have gone a little ahead in the process. I feel that from the committee that comes with the case that they have not been buried deep in it, they have not been heard sufficiently well in the critical situations that have been discussed. The effort to improve this is unsatisfyed. After right reviewing the matter, I feel that there were so many things that would be more natural. Even after this discussion, a job committee is calling the matter back, not even after this discussion, but taking the matter back into the discussion and taking it back in and checking more carefully the comments that have been received. Of course, the employment committee should take a very careful look at the concept of the Environment Committee of the Generals when she is asking to be considered by the Committee, not only when it comes to the environment, but also in the affairs of local governments, and also in organizational matters, not being able to comment on the matter before the committee closes its activities. It's all about work habits. Not studied in these agents.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u41	V.E.G. President. There's a disagreement. I think that's what we're talking about. The Environment and Transport Committee has not been equipped to submit its resignation before the deadline. I don't believe that what the fine committee stated was not demeaning, but it would have been very helpful if it had been received in time and if the ideal committee had stuck to the deadline given. Don't listen, says why. Senator. We feel that this matter is well presented, and it looks much better, so we are anxious to put it into practice as presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u42	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for history. As we know who are on the job committee, this issue has been highly criticized by various members, the Organization, the Land Protection Agency, and the European Union, to name something. The Organization in its organization has referred to the charges of electronic energy laws on charges to the Environmental and Resource Commission and the Power Commission. What do you think? A senator that can be prosecuted at the bottom of the Institute of Energy, and is it charged with a head? I'd like to hear from you too. A senator with regard to the access of stakeholders for this decision-making process. Now we know the procedure regarding the transport plan and the framework plan, which is being handled by Congress resolution. Who is involved in this matter as it seems today? I also ask: "Do you think so? " A senator that the state would be subject to harm to rural society if, contrary to local society's organization of decision-making agents, their strategy of implementation, where their rural communities are then set up to adopt it in their own organization within four years?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. It is stated in the Committee to agree or to demonstrate a system plan on the part of the Energy Agency is a welcome administrative decision to the European Commission on the basis of 1 mg. 30 grams. Electrical layer. It says that the decision-or-treating board is independent of its jobs, as per 10 mg. The same articles, but it can be carried out within six months of the publication of the decision, both the agreed and the individual components of a protocol can be reported as part of it, e.g. individual action within it and defined factors. The decision of the Agency can then either be accepted or rejected by the approved system programme. So I think it's pretty clear. With regard to the possible damage related to the state, I believe that from time to time it will occur, and I don't think there is any reason to worry about the possibility of such a development. We know of the natural nature that it seems that some projects in Iceland were in a station, so you put it that way now, for years, that cause us untold damage, not just now, but considerably in the future. So it is not surprising that these issues are simplified so that individual rural areas or stakeholders can safely transport electricity across the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u44	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. According to Article 1. the bill will not need the permission of the Agency for new transporters if it is expected to be in the System Plan. Counts 'em out. A senator who has no problem with the lack of the permission of the Power Agency for a new transport? It's only about the 9th paragraph. It has been noted by a number of sources, such as the town of Akureyri, that environmental, tourism, regional, and organizational procedures are not to be considered in the implementation of a system plan. Counts 'em out. Don't you think a senator might not? It has also been criticized that a structured program is used as the basis for a system plan. Is it normal for a new frame plan to be there, not electrical forecasts? It has also been shown in the criticism of the Environment and Transport Committee that the bill goes in reverse to legislation and development of the past few years in that public and stakeholders have been added to major public programmes and issues directly in the process of reconciliation rather than to the one-sided decision-making process as though this bill appears to be largely based. I wanted to hear some attitude. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u45	V.E.G. President. I think it's a bit of a misunderstanding in the opposite direction. Senator. In the 9th. says the word, with the permission of the president: In accordance with a system plan, if it has agreed with its administration and its planning, the transport line should be organized in order to obtain the proposal of the shipping company. It also says that because of reason. A member of the council spoke of a lack or less consultation than had ever been, earlier in Article 9. a-a team, with President's permission: The European Commission shall consult the European Union, member of the country society, and any rural community that may have to make changes in their planning programmes for a strategy. And here, by permission of the President: ▪ Plans to be presented and sent to these parties for special coverage and to give comments within six weeks of a presentation. The transport enterprise shall also agree with all other stakeholders and shall be in accordance with the Regulation's consultation procedures. So I believe that the concern of inadequate consultation is unnecessary in the light of what is presented in this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u46	Mr. President. I recommend a committee study with a subscription proposal on bill to correct the conversion of electricity law, with subsequent changes, i.e. System plan. The committee's opinion comes from a smaller part of the job committee, the one that says here, Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney. The minority feels that in the bill there was a lack of respect for environmental considerations and that the organizational authority of rural society is being taken into account. The report is that rural governments should coordinate their strategy with the confirmation of the Landsnet 10-year system and is therefore severely confined to the planning of rural society. System planning is done very high, and it is actually above organizational laws. The transport company has a large power given to the bill, which is very special in a private partner. A system plan is not expected to be discussed at the General Assembly, such as the transport programme and the national protection and use programme. The minority feels strongly that the public's viewpoint will be reached before rural society is obliged to place transportation initiatives on its organization. It may also be noted that if the bill remains unchanged in the law, it may be particularly damaging to smaller rural communities, who do not have the same degree of planning. The minority fears that the environmental considerations will be held if only Power Institute is involved in confirming the system plan. It can be concluded with a B- team 1. will be removed so that the Power Institute can bind the permission of conditions, such as environmental protection. The minority does not consider it to be in accordance with the third European Union electricity directive that Energy Agency supervises the implementation of a system plan as an independent and independent monitoring committee is required. The smaller section feels that there is a great need for a systematic approach to professional, strict and independent surveillance. For a-and-a-mer 2. The course of consultation is recommended on the one hand and on the other hand, the Power Institute. The smaller portion counts six weeks too short for such a massive system plan. They believe the lower part is that the Power Institute will be made available to non-relevant customers, such as rurals, tourism, and nature protection organizations. The minority agrees with the opinion of the European Commission on the lack of the bill, that there is a much more difficult explanation and more clear support for the proposals for the loss of the organizational authority of rural society. Also, the less part agrees with the criticism that little or nothing is a result of environmental considerations in the bill and that because of the great conflict in the case, it is considered to bring the matter back and to work better or to give the time needed to achieve the extent of reconciliation. This will take the less part under the review of my share of the environment and transport committee included in a follow-up form, with the opinion of this being considered. In addition, the majority of the environment and transport committees that are also included as package I. The lesser part suggests that the case will be referred to the government, which should work out in a more thorough manner and look for the most comprehensive reconciliation on the subject. That's what she's signing, case number three, it's Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. I'd like to kill down to the review of the Environment and Transport Committee first, the rest of the part of which he's involved in a system plan and says, by permission of the President: ▪ The Commission's discussion of the bill to correct the conversion of electricity laws was largely correlated with 2.g. a, the system plan and consultation with rural areas, and 2. g. c, on the status of the transport company's system plans for rural planning programmes. In these terms of the bill, there is a great deal of opinion that is involved in the self - control rights and organizational activities of the community that the managers have made strong comments. Contracts with rural areas that have interest and that other parties are implemented at 6 mg. 2.g. a and will take place during the implementation of a system schedule. According to point two. c The bill shall be agreed by rural organisations to coordinate their strategy within four years of the agreed system strategy, rural society should ensure that organizational matters will not interfere with the implementation of projects in the established 3-year strategy and rural society will not be allowed to deviate from the transport company proposal if this results in the failure of the transport company to meet its duties according to a system plan. This suggests that the transport company is placed in a higher position against rural and other stakeholders, e.g. Landowners, and will be able to manipulate rural areas to change their strategy in line with the agreed strategy within a relatively short period of time. Other sources of the review are the reviews of the Agency's reviews and the information it considered. As a result, it is considered to be a matter of decision made by the Power Agency on the agreed strategy and whether it is then approved to the Commission of Environment and Resources, the Commission of Electricity or Ministers. In a matter of what. One authority showed that he viewed this as a charge to the electronic committee. All right. Government decisions are generally prosecuted to a higher level of government or to a special lawsuit, but there is no particular complaint on the bill. So, according to the Organization, it's a little bit vague. I think it's right to get them to know what's right in this case. In this light, you will also need to consider that according to Article 1. the bill will not need the permission of the Agency for new transport initiatives if this is to be carried out in the System Plan. I'd also like to kill down into my review of a part of the Environment and Transport Committee on this bill we were given on the job board. It shows that the smaller portion feels that there is a great lack of environmental considerations in the bill. According to 3 mg. Count 9. a The bill should be a system plan for ten years based on practical scenarios for the development of electricity production, electricity use, market development and electricity transport to other countries, as appropriate, and that the system strategy should explain the criteria, scenarios and projections. In this regard, the smaller part considers the explanations in the comments to be presented in the report type not to be able to stand, but it shows that the modeling of a 10-year system plan should be considered for activation in the upcoming and waiting scheme. It is evident that while the activation option is organized into a frame design, it alone does not include the decision to enable the end of this procedure will result in a further investigation of environmental impact being carried out on and off. In this case the smaller part is considered less than usual to look for activation options in the waiting frame program, which is, in turn, a more distant activation option. Because of this, it is not reasonable to base on these points in a practical program. The smaller section agrees with the reference given earlier that the bill needs significant changes in view of these factors and also in the opinion that environmental considerations need to be considered on the basis of the environmental impact of lines. The bill was severely lacking, as one of the clients noted. Of course, this matter is controversial and has given strong opinions to the job committee when discussing these matters. A lot of critical reviews have come along, and I believe it is right to call the attention of the Generals and the nation to the attention that this is more recent, but it may seem at first glance and in the history of more than one part of the employment committee. In a memo provided by the National Protection Committee, she recognizes that these suggestions are not timely during the implementation of another EU energy package for research at ESA, and that tools are involved in harmonizing with planning laws and assessments of environmental impact, under the guidance of the Agency. National Security also believes that it is right to wait for national planning policies and that these issues will certainly overlap. We are expected to be reduced to a land planning policy. Land protection points out that the Landsnet is enabled to use priming ideas in the innovation and waiting category of the frame program which provides a basis for the implementation of electricity transport programme to ten years of age and that the need for a large line fixation is being run up, i.e. Two hundred and twenty kilowatts, on criteria that are not successful, point out that there are some benefits in a new framework of a framework not to say that it will be activated above the head, much less in the waiting category, as shown in the environmental and transport directives. Land protection also considers all legislators to be overly complex, the Landsnet is overpowered, and the Power Institute has to agree only with the overall programme but not with individual projects. National Protection also considers it unclear that environmental issues are being weighed down in the bill and that they are walking on the opposite side of Article 1. An electronic unit on licenses and conditions are subject to environmental protection. All of this should be taken into consideration for a greater proportion of the employment committees in order to be more successful. As I understand this, it should not be a matter of complete life in these matters. Rather, it is important to do what is right. Government protection also considers the bill to be a problem with other organizational legislation. It is highly critical that the monitoring remains in the hands of the Power Agency, who are being given added added responsibility and that it actually works contrary to prospective legislation required by the EU's third energy package, the EU electricity directive, which we are expected to adopt, which, according to the Commission, is to be subject to an unregistered, public or private entity. He must be independent and independent of them. Power has to be saying that the Power Institute is believed to be the neutral and independent person today that they are acting directly under the energy manager and the Agency is represented by a minister. The same staff also work differently than the monitoring of this third energy package, which is currently being treated by the management and monitoring committee as expected to be included in the EEA Convention and we will become a committed party. Some of the organization's activities have been criticized, and I also find it very important that the committee reread and go into the stitches. The Organization points out in its review of the environmental assessment of the system plan that law No. 105/2006, of the environmental assessments, values including the environmental assessment of action plans and their changes, as per 1 mg. Section 3. The law. System plan falls under the standards of the law, and the bill does not compromise the environmental assessment of a system plan. The Organization points out that the environmental assessment of plans needs to meet certain criteria for data, processes and management that are normally based on changes in electricity laws or to the minimum reference to laws in appropriate places. Otherwise, there may be uncertainty and questions about the interaction of the electronic law and correct the environmental assessment of a system plan. In this connection it is stated that according to the Environmental Assessment Act, environmental assessment needs to be performed concomitantly with the modeling of the programme and prior to the final analysis. Therefore, in the case of a system strategy, the environmental assessment must be performed prior to approval or confirmation of the plan of Power Institute. It must be natural for humans to take into account these important indications from the Organization. Furthermore, in his review of the case, the Organization suggests that a system plan is proposed, saying, by permission of the president: To 6 mg. Count 9. a A recommendation for the treatment of stakeholders is given. It presents quite a detailed provision for presentation and consultation with rural society. As regards presentation and consultation with other sources, it is only stated that the transport company should agree with all other stakeholders and that this should be agreed in the Regulation. An organization has concluded that such an important strategy for building foundations for the interests of many is a reason to address legal matters more clearly. The Agency also thinks it best to consider that in the case of a system strategy, there is a plan that goes by a partner rather than a department or an institution. This even gives further reason for clearly expressing the requirements for presentation and consultation. In comparison, the detailed guidelines for presentation and consultation in organizational laws and laws on the protection and energy efficiency programmes can be considered. All of this is worth going over again. I, on the basis of the minority opinion of the professional cartel that the case will be referred to a minister and done better. While the European Union has indeed come to prepare this case, it does not seem to come about in such a way that it makes any peace. The relationship in its review made very many comments and criticisms that organized rural society has been established, more often than not mentioned in this public address to be holy, at least when a certain airport is named. It must therefore weigh into the discussion that the European Union is not at peace with the situation as it appears here and not with the slight changes shown in the Commission's list of parts. A representative from the European Union has received a letter from the Guðjón of Bragason, who wants the matter to be reviewed and who tries to settle the matter, that there is a covenant committee arranged to set up this matter, and to provide direct suggestions on the subject. I think it's very unnatural, except that we're considering them in the Committee between 2 and 3. and will want us to do it. The relationship has also made some important comments that I am going to make. It says: December 5 of this issue was discussed by the European Commission of the European Union, a consultant for the management and staff of the Union. In the opinion of the Commission, the bill is underestimated, and in particular lacks a much more difficult explanation and more clear support for the proposals for the loss of rural planning. Criticism is that little or nothing is in the environmental context of the bill. I think we're getting a lot out of it. In view of the great problems on the subject, the Committee believes that the Council calls for more work and then brings back the bill. That's exactly what I suggested in my committee party. ▪ If there is no reason at all to do so, much effort should be made to address the matter at the General Assembly and therefore give the time needed to achieve the most comprehensive agreement on the matter. I think it's very important for all of us to try to meet them but not to take this matter into account. Also, the reference to the European Union is: The Commission's review of Article 9 was the highest priority. c, involved in the effectiveness of Landsnet's system plans for rural planning programmes. The committee emphasizes that the bill will be changed to 9 g. a, which deals with the implementation of a system plan, will be assumed to be that when it is found that there is a conflict between the transfer and rural management of line-up lines, the case should be placed on a formal agreement committee. This trying to make an agreement to appoint some of these terms comes up a little bit, and I think that it must be for the benefit of the case. It is too late to expect such a process after the scheme has been agreed on. In line with this emphasis, the committee suggests Article 9. c will be carefully simplified. The opinions presented in the Committee's discussion have been considered in the context of the narrative. I'm going to the end of my case, to come in only on the end of the Commission's statement: The Community will take under the direction of the Agency's review of the need to clarify the nature of the approval or confirmation of the Energy Agency of the programme, as well as the question of whether and where a conflict will be resolved. There seems to be a transpulsion that those persons who have been referred to here and critical of the bill agree that they are not sure where to explain the decision and confirmation of the Power Management System. I think that's got to explain. There has also been great criticism of this matter from landowners. I think it is very important to take this criticism into consideration. The EEA has also provided a review, saying here, by permission of the president: It's the same thing as 2 st. The bill is issued on Regulation authority that will be provided in Article 9. d The law of the law, which includes follow-up measures, including to what control provider is expected to follow up a system schedule. The EEA feels that there is a need to make a clearer recommendation for these legislation by law, at least if a certain frame is set for them. Reykjavík's health care is critical of factors that have not been identified in my case. It is a water - protection environment, for example, if a moving company had to cross a water - protection zone in order to fulfill its duties. It is referred to as an approved water protection in the capital area. There must be some of these concerns about where we are handling these matters, the territory we want to protect, and the fact that the strategy will not go beyond the organizational authority of our rural society. The health monitoring of Reykjavík does not consider acceptable for electrical transport companies to represent rural areas and health committees. I mentioned earlier that landowners focus on the independence of surveillance and business separation under the third EEA Directive on the electricity directive I entered earlier. I believe that there is so much chemical criticism in this case that there must be every reason why we refer to a minister to do it better in accordance with the statements of the committee and the major criticism of the environment and transport committees presented in both comments. Even if a person has submitted a review as less and more things, the lesser part can accept the criticism of the greater part and I believe that there is good reason to dismiss the case and to do it much better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u47	Mr. President. I can't help but, after listening to the first committee opinion of the greater part and then the committee opinion that was presented here, but accepted with a bang. A senator who spoke earlier, Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney Mystir, that it's on the threshold that the bill is acceptable, it's not a routine bill. This is a bill that includes very delicate factors that have become the source of great controversy in Icelandic society, and we need to be very careful about whatever has to do with the issue. I heard a lot of answers coming from what I heard. A senator and a what. paritaprevir The village Sæmundsson of Sæmund, who spoke to the majority opinion, even having tools to determine whether a head is the source of a ruling that is relevant to the core of this case. If there is, there is also no light in what you can do. So I agree with that wish. A member of the council says that the committee on the matter takes time between the 2nd and 3rd. to cross it. Of course, for those involved, it's hard and hard to kill. I have to admit, I didn't fully understand. To explain the real issue, I would like to ask. The following questions are raised by a member of the body: It is now that the country is divided into rural society. If a moving company wants to cross the highlands, while some community is opposed, can it be said that the core of the problem is that in order to resolve the disagreements, if not done within a certain period of time, it literally ensures that the will of the administration by incident or by transport company, will finally be successful? Am I understanding what is wrong or correct?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u48	Mr. President. It's true that you're right next to what you're talking about. A senator that this is so difficult and not easy to digest, whether for him or for me or for other players. Therefore, I think it is even more urgent that we listen to professionals, Organizations, Land Protection and Company organizations who have brought the matter into question and that it is not yet finished. As I understand this, this system plan, after approval by the Power Institute, leads to the development of rural and rural organisations to take into account within the four years, the three-year strategy that the transport companies put in the shelter of this system plan and change their organization accordingly. I can't see anything but the fact that they're being forced into the rural communities whether they like it better or worse. It's also unclear by charges, I think, that must be the basis for the criticism in the comments of the people I mentioned before and before. An executive noted that the Power Institute's decision to the Committee on Electric Energy can be reported. What will be done with that conclusion, I won't say, but if it's enough, I don't know. I feel that this needs to be explained much better before people start taking care of such large issues that are so unclear about the decision of a community. I don't think it's clear enough that there's the channel that meets the conditions I think needs to be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u49	Mr. President. In the chaos of the present world. Governments may not be reasonable enough to expect that there is some kind of system in it. I believe that in such a complex series of cases that extend over all governments and will have a long impact on the future, there must be a system of miseries at all. You're absolutely right. A senator must have to explain legislation in such a way that the Agency and each organization after another send in envelopes and complains that it is not clear enough, let alone how to deal with disagreements. We know that if anything is clear in this world then there will always be differences. They're just like that. There's nothing unnatural about that. This is a matter of great interest, as well as of intense feelings and completely normal, that differences arise when a person wants to, perhaps thinking that land needs to be ruined by crossing lines. At least the minimum when it comes to the conclusion that it is given in a way that makes one feel that it was not originally given wrong. Although I may not fully agree with the attitude of aggressor. This must be clear, and it is not possible to present such a profound bill that is literally an issue of public opinion about how to interpret. There's nothing that can be done. Then, of course, it is very difficult to believe that when it comes to both rural and landowners, there is a serious disagreement about the bill. They made it quite clear about Reykjavíkur Airport that they did not want it to be a mess with other men of Jussia. I want to be consistent in this matter and to say clearly: To me, the planning of my rural society is almost holy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u50	Mr. President. They sometimes say that some people are more sacred than others. I don't know if they're in this relationship. What has also been said on the review is that the independence of the Power Agency is being doubted to confirm a system plan in relation to this third energy directive that we start taking up very soon, as I understand it, since it is specifically stated that it should be an independent and independent party. In this case, the energy institution, with all these issues, is hardly considered to be the independent party. It wouldn't be good if we gave us a system plan and then, if we were to take up this directive, the law didn't measure up, that it contradicted, and that we had to withdraw and make changes. Then I think it'd be better to wait and work this thing on a level with what we're about to record about the EEA rules and the third energy package. Also, a lot of criticism has been observed from other sources on those topics that I did not mention earlier, e.g. Natural protection groups of southwestern countries They point out that the Landsnet system will be the dominant member of a rural organization. Maybe that's what it's like. A senator came in earlier, who will be on top when making decisions like this, whether rural communities are set up completely against a wall. It is also critical that rural society has far too little time to respond. I think it's gonna take a lot more than that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u51	A respectable president. Thank you. In many ways, a candidate for her talk and can address the doubts she had and also the difficulties she faced. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. It seems to me at first that the basic concept of the case itself is good, but the application is very demanding. I don't think there is any question that, as the case stands, the authority to take on a far greater power in these matters than is reasonable. It's better to say that those who put their lines in order to do so in the cheapest and easiest way. However, there are other viewpoints that need to be supported, such as those found in the local community, in the local community, in the areas of planning. In many ways, it may not be different, and it seems to be about transportation. We know a lot of examples of the roadmaking process, i.e. The state that the road type in that case wants to take a road through rural areas. In terms of how they are laid in the country, whether there are discrepancies, such as those of the Volgum, or a phone morning, as in Hafnarfjörður, or other such exports, there may be a valid view of the local community, and the need for the State to negotiate with them on how their land is treated. I'm asking why. A senator did not think it was a normal arrangement or status for such legislation that it had a position similar to that of the transport programme, i.e. would be the government's plan for the projects to take place but would then have to negotiate with the rural areas for implementation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u52	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, I agree, and in my case earlier, in my case I thought it was one of the things that should be taken into account and which should be considered in relation to the comparison of the strategy and the transport program and the Senate resolution proposals for suggestions in the frame plan; these are issues that should be made into the council and for discussion. I think it would be normal for a system plan to come to the Generals for discussion and for more opportunities for public access to the issues that are not as it seems today. System plan, I posed the question more often than not to a professional committee if a part of a system plan could be reported. We know that there must be a lot of heavy water if some rural society is very at odds with the design of the transportation man, the lines of the countryside in sensitive areas, and wants to take that chapter up and please. Does this mean that the whole system plan needs to be reported? Is there a specific area that can be considered dear? I think it's very vague. This was one of the things that was highly critical not only of the sources who appeared before the committee, such as agents from Akureyri Town, but also of other sources of criticism has been made, how to sue a part of a strategy, and not everything needed if you're going to file a complaint.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u53	A respectable president. It seems to me that answers are what you're talking about. A member of the council that this export must be a major concern for both landowners and rural communities. It is quite obvious that it is inexpensive and easier for the state to put up with just all the lines in the rural areas, but it can seriously affect the interests of both private and rural society if that is the case with the state. I remember, among other things, when I began my administration at Reykjavík's Power Office in his day, such as 20 years ago, that it was the intention of supplying the Nesjavalla line down the Mosfells Valley by Glakafstein and throughout the air. Of course, there were strong opposition from the local community and from its individual landowners. The result, however, was to give them views that much of the line went into the ground that went through the rural society. Today, 20 years later, I believe that everyone agrees that it was a reasonable investment and a reasonable way of doing it. What you must ask yourself is how these economic interests are weighed together. How is it now, if it is cheaper for the state or country's network to buckle up than the difference between the difference and the earth line can be much smaller than the financial interests of the country that the community can have because the line is in the ground, or they are the interests of construction rights or land prices of others whose landowners can have because the line goes into the ground? For example, does the State add to the land's prosperity if its land is ruined by a layer of air in or around its earth? Is the local community being compensated for the organizational damage it is experiencing because of such action? Or is it just an account of the state to determine the decision when it is considered? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u54	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for his questions and speculations. This, with the damage rights, and the rights of those who think they've been involved in this relationship, I feel vague. As long as this work has taken place on the job committee, the communities have been trying to reach the state of the government of the matter of reconciliation. I think it's right that I'll draw attention to the information we received from the European Union recently. It was the equivalent of a term introduced by the European Union's representatives in the Ministry. It reads like this, with president's permission: The next review of the main structure, and no later than four years from the agreed system, is being made to set the transport line in order to obtain the proposal of the shipping company according to a system plan. A rural management board is then permitted to postpone a decision on land use according to a system plan for up to 10 years to agree with the shipping company. This is a suggestion for compromise. I'm not gonna say it's something that will solve the problem, but there's men out there trying to make a deal that I think I have to do. As it is now done, it is all too much and almost entirely on the basis of the shipping company. It is highly unnatural in such a large language that there is a major difference and will occur, about the future fixation of electrical lines, whether it should be in the earth or above the delicate areas. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate that I emphasize that this is to be taken back and referred to what is said in my committee party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u55	Madam President. It's interesting to me that the manager of the greater part is not here at the conference, much less the minister of the seminary, which would have been of good reason. Actually, it would have to be at least here. ... twoandmostthreeofthemost. Ministers; except industrial Ministers, of course, should be here to serve as environmental and organizational minister and local minister on behalf of a unit. Here we are dealing with huge cases of princely importance, a fundamental matter that must be taken seriously and cope with. I think these ministers should come here so we could get their perspective and ask them questions, for example. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Environment and planning Minister on the basis of reports of the Agency, e.g. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Minister of the Interior, based on the comments and positions of the European Union and the rest of the streets. Perhaps there is a need to have the highest. Industrial and business minister here, because we're a little close to where the heart of his minister is striking these materials. It's part of the bill. I think it's totally clear, and it really became clear to a man when you read the title books, the majority and minor aluminium elements that came from the employment committee and, of course, the reviews of more parts and smaller parts of the Environment and Organizational Committee, that this case is by no means complete, but it is very missing, for which the employment committee has now been informed so much that it was taken out before they were deemed to the Environment and Organizational Committee. It can't seem to be a good practice, especially because of it, like a driving force. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall correctly pointed out that an environmental and organizational committee is not just another committee in this matter. This is a matter of planning, so it should have been just the same with the committee. Hv. The employment committee might be more comfortable here in the hall, and I would have liked to have a chairman or a substitute member of the Committee, of course, with all due respect. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, who sits here with us, and reyndar Björt Ólafurdóttir, too, very good, and, of course, here was the chairman of the minority of the committee. [[Up front.]] It would be desirable to know the answer before much further is held in the discussion: Is the committee ready to take the matter back? I think it's obviously the most frightening option in the situation, or it's inevitable to suggest its contraparation, as it is actually done in the Committee's parts, not because you want to, but that's not the case. I think people must be aware of this if they go over it in their minds. I'll catch up with you later. Regarding the lumbar spine in the bill, i.e. The plan itself and her position, attracts much attention there, to be honest. If we first discuss the plan as such, compare with a-team 2. Gr., who will be 9. a It shows that it should be submitted to Power Institute annually, divided into long-term programme parts, and developed programmes based on practical scenarios for the development of electricity production. It's just been discussed here. Is it suggested to be realistic? Is it done, e.g. by not only referring to the overall New Order in a frame plan as it stands but also to the waiting party as if it were by itself that it all be activated? Where does association with work in a frame of mind come from, and how? That, of course, is challenging. It is quite challenging to set this up so that the Landsnet or transport company should establish that everything in the waiting frame program will be activated and therefore needs to be considered for electrical lines that can transport it. It doesn't make sense. It's just that way. When, for that reason, if this is the approach, it is not the basis for the phrase that realistic scenarios will be recorded. The bill speaks a lot about the transportation company, and I remember to the highest. A minister spoke extensively about consultations with 1 Corinthians 15: 58. Um... you wouldn't have to worry about that because there would be so much work to do in the process. Yeah, in 2. The bill says that the transport company should consult the European Union, its member member society, and any rural society that may have to make changes in their strategy for strategy. Whether the system schedule should be presented and sent to these partners for a specific discussion, it should be made comments within six weeks of a presentation. The transport enterprise shall also agree with all other stakeholders and shall take into account the procedure in Regulation. Is this the legal device used for e.g. the public's approach to important environmental decisions proposed by the Communion Convention? No, it's not him. This is absolutely clear because it is put into force here by the events of the shipping company, the stakeholder's interest, and to some extent the Minister can further implement this in the Regulation. Why is this game not shown? Why is this not arranged in a comparable way in the Law text and is in the law on a frame plan, where there is a clear right person in a careful process that allows more time to promote logical viewpoints? It's not done here. This is where men take a brutal shortcut, and I don't think this will pass the legal fixture of the Frags Convention. When it comes to monitoring, it has already been pointed out that the Power Institute is behind the surveillance. First, it should be the main party against the transport company or the Landsnet to accept the system plan, and then it will monitor what it has approved. It probably does not satisfy some of the rules that are already, otherwise on the way in these areas, that someone independent of a person is observing the right thing to do. Energy agencies and the Landsnet or the transportation company are being controlled in this case. Conspiracy doesn't mean an agreement. It does not mean that a common conclusion is reached when such a person is found in lyrics. I read from the bill that it's the shipping company and the Power Institute that controls it. There is no way to resolve a conflict or how it will be settled properly. There is no independent penalties or judges to deal with either the overall system plan or its distinct factors, which would, of course, be the right thing in these topics. The system plan may be in a position to accept it, but if there is a sharp disagreement about its individual components or its strategy for the next three years, what is the situation in this regard? It's the best time, though, when it comes to the c-team. Article 3 of the strategy for rural development. I had to be honest with you when I read this and, of course, it happened during the day, as it has been carefully considered, that the rural communities in the country and their organization has become very upset about this kind of drive, which is a very special expression. It says, by permission of the president: The European Commission shall proceed with the next review of the main structure, and no later than four years from the agreed system plan, to coordinate strategy for projects in the established 10-year strategy. In addition, rural management should ensure that organizational matters do not interfere with the implementation of the three-year System Action Programme. A low transport line should be determined on the basis of the transport company's proposal in accordance with the system plan...-◯ It's just a question or it'll be a tip. System Schedules Control. Of course, the national network is in charge, in agreement with it and its planning authorities. Then comes the natural best sentence, which the greater part suggests now to disappear from the bill but is, in part, sorry that it is so wonderful to describe the atmosphere in the bill. It says, by permission of the President: The management board is forbidden to deviate from the move of the transport company if this leads to a failure to meet its obligations in accordance with the current system programme at any time. I see that the greater part suggests that this arrangement is removed, of course, unnecessary because it has been set in the previous paragraph, the transfer of power to the transfer company and the Power Institute has been complete in the previous paragraph. It is not necessary to say again that rural society is unable to react. But the authors of the bill were saying that they still put this sentence in, and it's very vivid. In particular, they were to insist that rural society is absolutely not allowed to be wrong. That would be the system plan, prepared by the shipping company, approved by the Power Institute, which was to be controlled. Speaking of Power Institute, I have to say that things like that, unfortunately, I don't think she can quite handle the multiple roles she's supposed to have. I think that Power Institute is in a lot of trouble with the combined and part of the opposite role it is assigned to as a permission team, to prepare a proposal for a frame plan, to a surveillance provider, and as a management authority that puts the energy industry's income limits and what it is. They've become quite a composite project of the Power Institute. It appears to you more and less like the extended arm of the energy companies, and it does not naturally conceal what it offers in the work of a frame plan. They testify that the Power Institute sees it as its task to ensure that there is an open view that anything that is activated in the country is activated. It draws back from its position of advice on activation that everyone thought was completely out of focus, but it is the energy agency that has appeared to us today. It must be said at the moment, Madam President, that she doesn't calm you down in discussing these matters, the feeling you feel that nature protection and environment are placed everywhere on the edge. That's certainly the way it is here, they're not made very high in this bill. I also believe that men are shorting themselves a great deal by pushing in reality many of the problems of exporting them off the board in the bill and moving them to the Minister's Regulation. It is more than small that the Minister should set out in accordance with the regulations of the transport company's system plan, information to be part of a system plan or to follow up with it and how to agree the procedure. So far as it is not legal, the minister should be in charge of these or other matters. I don't think it's an impossible waste in such a big deal. It is crucial to what is the situation of a rural society, what is the position of an environmental organization, what is the position of the landowners, what is the position of the administrative authorities in the process of implementing a strategy. Well, Mr. President, in the beginning of the situation, it doesn't very well blow up that these members actually send in very serious comments and criticisms. That's what rural society does, that makes Organization, that makes landowners, that makes Land Protection and more members. This makes the International Parliamentary Environment and Organization Committee, both more things and smaller things that are fundamentally agreed that the bill is in no way clear and ready to be handled, it is defective, it is too far, it is too much to overdo the planning of the rural community, it is also unclear which state of approval of the Energy Agency of the strategy has. Is it a administrative decision, and is it appreciated as such? Or is it just some big-time Landsnet and the Power Institute together? Yeah, it seems. They are more and less entrusted with totalitarian powers, as I read out of this. Of course, that is not readily available. This is done in a careful consideration of both the share and the share of the environment and the transport committee. They're detailed. They are well - supported, which is, in fact, more than can be said with full respect to the opinion of the greater part of the employment committee. I am disappointed that this work is low and how little the matter has been considered to the depth of that work. Most of all, I was surprised when I saw the changes. It never occurred to me after 1st. The case and after the reviews that began to rain in and the guests -- it shall be stated, Madam President, that as a substitute on a professional committee, I had two meetings where the case was being discussed, a fine meeting where guests brought in quite comments - and earlier I had a chance of death, but that the committee would end so just work, and the result would be a relatively short opinion, and three changes that all are really unsatisfactory, are nothing. In the first, the word "organization " is replaced with a ◯ structured plan, and in the second, the final part of the 1 mg. 2.g. exited, which in itself did not have meaning because the same scheme had been determined in previous paragraphs. It was just supposed to be some additional disaster in the country's head that they weren't allowed to fight. The committee has concluded that it did not need to be done, that society has already had the drop-hammer, that it doesn't have to be said twice. And what is the third change? It is that instead of developing the law on January 1, 2015, they will do so immediately, as January 1, 2015 has passed, and therefore the bill could not stand that way. That's it. To be honest, I am surprised to say that if you try not to work harder to get a little better around the situation, it is so obvious that much, much more work is needed if you are to have any hope of reaching your goal. What about, Madam President? What was the subject of this matter? Yes, it was a very important thing. That is why it is sad to feel that such a habit is involved. This was to be a firm guide on how we approach the outcome and make informed decisions on these challenges, trying to make peace with the fact that the process toward that point would be careful and all views would be taken care of. It's failed here. It's not like that. In other words, it was supposed to be a frame, a mechanism of action, of trying to draw greater reconciliations for very tricky and dramatic decisions such as where you go with high-voltage lines, where you put lines on the ground, etc. The approach is very similar to the thinking behind a frame plan. Of course, everyone knows that this does not guarantee that everyone will agree or agree, but it is always of utmost importance that people get together about the rules of the game, they don't share them, they don't share the rules and the process. In sports or whatever else it is today, it is of great importance that there is an agreement on the rules, what you can do, what you can't do, what you think is a violation and what you can't do. If people need help and if they don't succeed in applying the rules, then there is usually a judge in such matters. It's not here. I believe this case is still stillborn as some evolution in order to increase the likelihood of having a closer solidarity on these issues. I think it's very sad. When a committee gave her opinion, I expected it, and I found positive results as far as they could reach them. The tips and the emphasis that the committee brought were improved, and I hoped that the next issue would improve so that we could set down common rules of rules, and for more peace, these matters would be observed. It's not going to work. If people legalize this unconcerned, it will mean that people do not agree, and it takes less than the fact that rural society disagrees, that the Organization is not at all, that national protection is against, that landowners are disagreeable, and, in fact, other committees at the council are not at all at odds with how the matter is going on here. It is enough to quote what is said in terms of, for example, a greater part of the Environment and Organizational Committee that is taking a very deep part in the year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not government opposers. Madam President. Sadly, there is nothing to be done but either that the committee calls the matter back to itself or that it refers to the government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u56	Madam President. Hv. A senator called out what the job committee's plans were for. I can inform him that I've called for the matter to come through between the 2nd and 3rd. to discuss the proposals of the European Union's rural society that we have received and are very effective in the comments of those who are about to be upbuilding, expressive, and polite. People are really trying to figure things out with us. I think we're gonna get what we need. A committee has not given us enough time to fix the failings of the bill. There is no question about the importance of developing a system plan, but it does not care how it is done, and we need to be more careful. That is why the matter is mentioned between 2 and 3. ...by.....I suppose.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u57	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's what Ólafsdóttir did for. It is helpful to know that the matter goes to the 2nd and 3rd committees. Perhaps that was a bit of an option because the matter is in conflict and debate. But I think it would be much better if the committee called it to him now, we just interrupted the discussion and the committee took a good turn on the case, for example. Also, on the basis of professional driving committees and environmental and planning committees held a joint meeting and covered it well, as it is evident that an environmental and organizational committee has put considerable effort into it. It is better and more judicial to do so. There is no need for a vote of deliberation that is inconceivable to us if we do not feel inclined to meet somewhere in the case. It is also clear to me that the result of such an opinion is likely to make significant changes in the bill. I think it's quite possible and I want to make a special point that I think it's just a question of work, that the bill can be greatly improved. I'm very interested that this is done because it's right. It's important. Much has been done over the years, and some of us share in trying to get these matters into a better way. That's why I'm willing to do my part and people around me trying to get closer together on this matter, but that's not what we're doing. It's inevitable that there's a little out of the question if you don't sense the will to get better into this case and take into account the views that well-founded have come from your communities, yes, right. It's much less than having your rural society with them. It is hardly possible to resolve matters in a crying conflict with rural communities because they are under one of the most sacred rights of the organization. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u58	Yes, I agree with the senator and celebrate the idea of a environmental and organizational committee meeting on the subject. There's no reason to be calling in the same party at the meeting of both committees, that would be crazy. If people talk with each other, they are more likely to get a conclusion and a better result than they are if not. That's a good idea, and I'm celebrating it. Another is that if a person like the Union doesn't understand, despite all his lawyers and a lot of information, a part of the bill, or how it's going to work out, we're a little screwed up. Of course we have to listen to it. Then we haven't done enough work. It doesn't mean to throw it into people and say, "You'll just find out. It won't end well and isn't, I expect, an interest in the majority of the committees getting divorced like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u59	Madam President. I completely agree with that. It is very unusual to look after the reviews of both the Organization and the communities that highlight the legal or administrative uncertainty that exists about the state of the Agency's office approved or the implementation of the Power Management Board. I think one of the things that needs to go a lot better is the role of the Power Agency in this, what to do with it, because there is no slight change in the license of a single development neighborhood and in a system plan. When a system plan is approved, there is only a straight path for everything in it, there is no need to be allowed for any particular organisation or such. It does not naturally make any uncertainty as to what state the supply of the Power Agency has, whether it is an administrative decision that is dear and how. This is particularly important because this is not expected for an independent party, whether for an issue or for an organisation. I immediately gave it to me in 2012 when the funeral committee was finishing work that what would be considered next would be administrative factors. It would need to be considered as to whether the process should be considered in some kind of decision - making process, a way of difference, a procedure, or something similar. It is very difficult to leave the decisions at the stakeholder, the shipping company, and/or the Power Institute, all over the table in these issues. So I think an outside party or General itself by simply confirming a system plan has to be established. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u60	V.E.G. President. I was glad to hear that there was a demand for me to be here. I watched this conversation somewhere else in the house, but, of course, I'm very happy to be here. There are a few things in another fine speech. A senator I feel is not entirely up to. First of all, I'm going to make it clear that I do not support the senator's distrust of that ideal Institute of Power, I do not share that distrust. Other than that, I want to point out that here says: The ▪Meiri part points out that the approval or rejection of a System Plan on the part of the Power Institute is a welcome administrative decision to the Power Commission on the basis of 1 mg. 30. g. Electrical layer. The decision board is independent of its activities [...] it is possible to sue an agreed system as a whole or a part of it, for example. individual action within it and defined factors. At the same time, it may be possible for the Agency to agree or refuse the approval of a system plan on whether it is available or not. What's the problem with this, anyway? Senator? Then comes another. Today, we live in a circle that is like Christmas Sherry. Only one roof surface is needed to take out the international airport. Of course, people have to dress up and establish a proper link between parts of the country and the main activations here. I ask the senator, "How long does he think we have?" It turns out we don't even have 10 megawatts on the Dalvík for 120 people. We don't have the power on Siglusar farms for data studios. We don't have enough energy for the Westfjords in a silica factory. How long should we wait to put on the real development of electricalizations around the country?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u61	Madam President. I was expecting this speech from someone who was wondering why. A senator, that this schedule has not arrived, that electricity cannot be restored to Dalvíkur, Siglusund, and Westfjordur - wíth. True, a senator did not mention the northeast corner where the situation may be most serious, on the northeast line from Salmon - year induction, and all the way to Backfjords, which are read and kept in bed, and where they stand. But that situation just literally has nothing to do with it. Nothing. [[Take the front, hear.]] There's no money and there's no structure. There's no debate about line lines on the northeast route. There is no disagreement that the earthline lies from Kopasker and Bridgeland, in Parrots enthusiast. The ground cord, on the other hand, is read. He ain't moving no more. It has nothing to do with a system plan. The situation in the network at the West, out into the Grinch, or out to the northeast corner in this context, is a real disaster. There's no disagreement about that. There are lines there, and the line lines aren't controversial, so I know best. All they need is to strengthen them with lines and put blacker ground cables, etc. That's the way it is. Second, I object that I described some general mistrust in the Power Institute. I won't, Madam President, so it's just going to go into the Senate. Of course, the company of energy is the ideal institution and very important. But I allowed myself to review that the Power Institute has a highly integrated and complex, and some of its conflicting roles. I think we've been digging too many in there and it's not in my opinion of a more comfortable position for a number of things that she's supposed to do when looking for her role in assessing energy need, suggesting proposals in a frame plan, monitoring energy companies, setting them limits, etc. and should also be this central part of the system structure itself and monitor it. [[The president calls.]] Certainly I admit that I had the word that I feel that Power Institute and its policy do not warrant a optimistic view of her being objective enough in all cases of her employment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u62	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The person standing here is not looking for a front. I just want to remind you how long it's been waiting to be able to use a line from reconstituted activation and east through. How long has it been waiting? It wasn't until I came into this council, less than two years ago, that I found that mixed activation has never been run in full force because its energy cannot be moved away. Does the senator find this acceptable? I know he's a lover of nature as I am, actually. I say, when we take advantage of the continuum transfunctioner, when we decide to take land and environment for use, we must use it. During the 20 years and more, energy has flowed through mixed activation without being new. I don't think that's an unpleasant waste. Then you say: If it's so that individual rural societies have been living at a certain time that no blending line can be set east, I don't think it's an tolerated situation. They have to deal with it in some way. The bill says that we should consult with rural areas. It says here to agree with stakeholders. I have a great deal of respect for the parties as a matter of course. A senator listed in his speech, the status of the Organization, the Land Protection Agency, etc, but I also allow myself to reflect on the status of the people who are waiting to use their energy for good works, for good building up. I don't believe this bill is going to be some kind of a sign that a man can come across the country with no prior notice. But we just don't have time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u63	Madam President. I'm way too old to be scurrying away from some sleepless fantasy that now the whole of time is gone, the train's leaving track, and there's just a few people out there unless we throw our hands and dump something like this. It will not be successful. If it now fails to lay the foundation for making decisions on these delicate, delicate matters, in greater agreement than has been offered, this is not to speed up progress in these matters, however, could delay. Of course, there is much to consider. It is true that the transport system needs to be strengthened in certain areas. But how much? What should be the basis for this? Is the scholarship to take into account that, over the years, everything in the current and waiting category of the frame plan will be activated? Is it not the danger of creating a proposed need and demanding lines, 130 or 220 kilowatts in which perhaps 66 kilowatts would be successful, with no trace of any differences or problems involved, that system will probably go first in the earth over the years, far more than sufficient for most of the areas mentioned here. But if you've got a huge dream in the kraut and you can imagine 220 if you don't have a 400 - kilowatt line that's gonna get worse. So the basics here are also important. What do we give ourselves in this regard? [[Up front.]] I just say that the problems that have been the most difficult to deal with, e.g. All the Westerners - although they were merely reformed, thanks to a committee that started 2009 and has worked for electrical energy on the West - and then the northeast corner and individual areas in the Northland - have nothing to do with the big plans in itself, it can be solved. But I believe this has been delayed for one reason because the Landsnet has had ideas of so much transport in the system and is trying to get it through and without ever being able to explain or argue that it is needed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u64	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about 2. A bill to correct the conversion of electrical law, No. 65 from 2003. I call attention to their being from 2003, with subsequent adjustments, to the so - called system plan. This is a major issue of recording 22 pars. Icelandic law power directive. It might have been better to do so sooner, but it wasn't. Various people also have doubts about whether the European Union's electricity directive should have ever produced laws here in Iceland. I was one of them, and I have felt that the opportunity we received at that time was not used to obtain a gift from various sources. But things change so fast that it may be necessary to record them, and I think it is now. I have listened attentively to 2 Timothy 3: 1 - 5. That which has been revealed, has been both informative and beneficial. But I have to say, as it is, it would have been better if much of it had been done to 1st. The matter; 1st. You see, it was very short. If I recall correctly - I wasn't here when it was, I was absent - only two senators participated in this discussion, and the Minister of Industrial Affairs granted some objections, it was now all discussed. Then came this matter to the trade committee immediately after this, and it was sent out for reviews at a typical six - month notice, which I don't know anyone complained about, but many reports were received. Because reviews of more and less of what we hear. The environmental and transport committees have also responded at the same time, and I have to say, as it is, that I first heard about it today and saw the hearsay that came in a committee party. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. There are the reviews from both sides, and I listened to them. A senator will present his case earlier and read these reviews. But I'd also like to say, with all due respect to the committee, that I think it's rather late. I would've wanted to see this before. For example, I would have liked to light the bulb, just like that. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir talked to me about this morning, in my section's committee program, where it is said that this system plan should be considered and that it should receive as much coverage as a transport plan. That's a very interesting suggestion, I think, but it's rather late. I don't know about - and I don't think I've actually attended all the meetings at a professional committee where this has been discussed, which is 13 meetings, which have been approved, and that I recall four more meetings in the month of February. So the committee has held a total of 17 meetings, but I can also see why. The Environment and Transport Committee has set this up in two meetings where conferences have been published. There may be other meetings that have been discussed at meetings that have not been approved, I'm going to have that in advance. As I said, I find this very interesting proposal, which says that this strategy, a ten-year long-term, short-term, three-year-old, short-term plan - in knowing a road plan, a long plan, and a short plan that comes in every two years, and is being used here by Congress, that's very interesting. I say, however, because I've written under the majority opinion in advance, that I don't agree that it works, if more things were involved, right now and I'll argue why. This is because during the 2008 crisis period, since collapse, the systems, Landsnet, and others have little or nothing done in the construction of electrical lines. For many years there has been nothing that has been done for financial problems and that the need may not have been there. But there are expensive years behind it. For example, I can predict in my own place that the Council of the North-Current District, who has passed through for a district week and including other rural governments, that it is totally new to me that local governments should complain that general users and employment companies at the site, or after occurrences of potential new companies who want to come to the appropriate location, cannot receive electricity because it cannot be moved to the appropriate location. Shall I mention Eggls? Shall I mention Akureyri? Yeah, I can do that. I can add Dalvik, and I can add my hometown, Sigluvær. It was surprising that certain jobs could not be built because energy was not available. It shows us - whether we like it or not, and I make it clear that it shall walk about with great care to lay lines. It may be one of the most ugly of all of the major employment structure, whether it's large or smaller companies, these large and large transporters in the air lines, large and large patterns, often and times, the way they are, it's the biggest attraction for the environment, in my opinion. I don't know how to name this place up here on Hellishi - I don't know that name, but it didn't show up in the debate about something that happened earlier -- where you can stop and watch over a forest of electronic energy here in the vicinity of the capital. It's not very nice at all. So we need to look at this system core with the advantages and defects in it. The benefits are that they are finally taking this thing, that we should have done sooner, but there may well be some defects involved in administrative matters. I'll try to find out later if I have time. We will also need to look at a synopsis of the earth's electrons and the opinion of the procrastinator on electrical lines, which include the higher multiplicity rates of 1.5 to 2 and into the stocking costs, and that includes some factors not about the costs but on other factors. I'd like to use the trip here and say that this target, this cost estimate, the committee's rising from 1.5 to 2 - as well as the price of ground strings is to be reduced, among other things, because prices on landline are dropped and because prices are to be dropped, because companies that produce such strings have been doomed for competitive violations for price fixings on land cables. We know this kind of price fixing, how they happen here in Iceland, and that's where companies have been judged. I hope that the price agreement and the competition will end with these strings, so this is down. It's important to watch this together, and there's one reason why I'm on the committee, even though I'm on notice. The guard turns to other factors. The chief turns to the administrative issue to see if we need a special administrative agency or not. But into this, because it blends into a system plan, the electrical cables are spoken of, that these costs are not relevant, and certain chapters justify the animal's advantage. First, if there is a line route within a defined urban population, second, if there is a line path within a country protected by a special landscape, such as 53rd. law on nature protection, third, if there is a line route to an airport that shows that airlines can affect flight security, fourth, if there is a line path within the park, and fifth, if there is a line path within a country protected by other than a special landscape, such as 53. law on nature protection. The majority added to the airport, thinking that this applies to flight security, and so that air safety devices, such as policy senses and radar, will blend in. For example, this increases the area of which much has been spoken, i.e. At the end of the runway in Akureyri. There's a policy beacon coming out of the standard airports that are elsewhere. And by taking this in there, there's a very large area in which there's no way that a line of air is going to be built and a ground cord has to be placed, and it doesn't matter what the cost is. A respectable president. We need to look at this in context. A proposal for an interpretation of government policies onlining electrical lines is a remarkable document, and hopefully within a few years, a review will be made when we get more experience and see how things develop and what they need to be improved. In the opinion of the Committee, several factors and, among other things, the formation of a neutral committee for cost evaluation, and the participation of stakeholders is part of that committee. We have been included in the committees of human opinions and of the heavens and of the oceans that have developed. A land net has told the Commission that if possible by transport ability, or airline, they do not care whether a cord is laid. The decision must be made by the General Assembly or by the government. If there is to be a further increase in eco-contamination, then the decision to make is made by the government, since it may go into the prices of electrical energy. You may be right, there is nothing you can put it on the company relative to the laws that the company operates on. Back to the bill we are discussing now, although I have taken a sidestep by quoting this interpretation that is essential for us to bear in mind. Although I have listened here today, several warnings and comments that have been made, that this is not well done, I believe, as was shown by one speaker at the umr. this case, that it is not later a kindness to present it despite the bait it is taking. The directive set out here involves a number of things, I think, as discussed here. For example, what should be discussed, where to point a conflict. It is simply stated that the decision is most welcome - where it was now in all of these data - to the nuclear power ruling committee from the 2003 electricity law, where it is inserted. Well, it may be in the committee's opinion of Earth's electrons, but enough. This is dear to the committee. The decision of that committee - to protect all interest and to go through all matters, it is not just the Commission of Electric Energy Industries, it is also to be taken care of by all other public interests and the national security agencies and the public has to say - is indictable to the courts. I'm not an employee in the fact that I often asked guests at the Committee's headquarters if we should rather have a full-scale decision that could be reported, which leads to the ultimate conclusion of a conflict that may be due to this strategy. I thought, after thinking, that most people would object to what came in there and would rather have this ruling committee and then the court route. In other words, I felt that this was not to be done in courts. Justices have enough to do with other matters that surely have no place other than the courts, although they are not judging where electrical lines should lie or whether a line should be in the air or on earth. But it wasn't my will, and it's one of the warnings I have on this matter. But in the bill itself, if people are not just talking about the committee opinion, there are a number of factors to consider in terms of what the Power Institute should do. It's listed here, and now there's a lot of people, as follows: ▪ Follow-up agencies should consult with all the current and possibly electrical buyers about the plan. A respectable president. I think it's quite ambitious what's put out there. I can only understand that the public, landowners, societies, and others can make comments and the monitoring agency, which would then be the prospective Power Institute, have to take into account the factors they have before they create their system. And because someone here asked if any part of the system plan or the whole plan could be reported, it can be reported here that some parts can be reported. It's very important. In other words, a community that does not want a system decision and does not want to take part in its organization can sue that part for decision - making committees and then to courts and it is final. In this directive, the major trade company in Brussels, the European Union, has a considerable concern for public rights. But whether or not it's far enough in our case, with regard to our little country, I won't tell you, but I think it's worth one Mass to pass a bill and go through like this. At the end, I may also say, because in the 2003-and-I'm asking them if we have to go up to the Ennis Institute, as with various transport agencies, where the construction centres of various transport agencies, such as the Vega, then the Navigatory Institute, and the Air Management Board, were placed in a special construction facility, but all the management agencies were taken into another agency now called a Group Agency. This is a complete separation between the implementation of the administrative sector and the administrative sector. The Act on Power Institute, of 2003, says: In addition, the Agency shall oversee other administrative tasks entrusted to the Agency under law, administration or Minister's decision. And about the role of the Power Agency, 1st. , says: A special government agency under the oversight of a minister is the office of the Orku Society. A respectable president. I repeat that these laws are from 2003, and no doubt it has been nice when they were put, but I ask that - including the discussion that is a bit of distrust, that I think, to Power Institute - whether it is time to make changes in the law of the Power Institute to prevent the suspicions presented there. I don't know, I'm not going to give it a straight answer, but I'm just going to draw attention to the factors in this matter. A respectable president. I reiterate what I said before. I'll sign the members' list in advance. I have not tore any warning, but the main thing is that this discussion may lead to taking a system plan to ten years and three years, or keeping it to ten years of age or five or what it should be, and taking it the same way through the council, as it is done by a transport plan. I'm an old platoon leader. I was a platoon leader for 12 years. However, I cannot help but be a sponsor for the article on the bill dealing with rural planning, that due to the economic and professional prowess of rural society it is difficult to handle such matters. You listen to it in the news that a mixed line can't be built to complete reconstitution because the rural company, dorklands, and Akraheppur, otherwise or both, said: This line will not be passed through our rural society unless all the energy is used in that area. A respectable president. I feel that such local administrations make it necessary for you to accept a bill of this kind, this article, to take note of, after all the legal careers, to plan and set it in an organization, as we did by a frame plan, to take a little of it by then, and to tell rural society that they are going to work on what the World Council decides on this. This is my last words, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u65	Madam President. I mean, about the last thing that ever happened. A senator referred to them as a natural difference between whether the community planning and interests of the country are somehow limited by decisions taken by the Council of Energy and by the Council; where no democratic authority of the Union is involved and limited in the development of the community in the sense that it is only said to have an agreement with it. It does not say how to deal with disagreements. First of all, I understand why. A senator is eager to get electricity into Siglusfjörg, nothing surprises him. But there's a reason. A senator doesn't agree with me that the problem is not to be solved by the thought that transport capacity is enough to be expected of an elf? That's what I'm talking about. Is there anything to think of being so black cables to Siglufjörður that an elf can be built there if one day it were thought of? That's the problem we're facing here. They have a problem that is about delivering several hundred kilowatts or a few megawatts on certain lines that run out of the main transport system, and they really have nothing to do with the debate on the major high - pressure system. The 66 kilowatts are on their way to earth, with no problem. Despite what the greater part has entered into its committee opinion, a system plan is a legitimate decision to be made to an appeal committee, it does not change the application of the information given by the Agency that brings this uncertainty to its attention. Since the organization considers this to be in doubt, we can ask ourselves, " Is it sufficient to explain that much of the committee is that way? ' [[The president calls.]] There's no lawsuit in the bill. Why, then, did the committee not put away any of the changes in the motions and bring in a lawsuit against the poseti family so that there was no doubt? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u66	V.E.G. President. Yes, I agree. A senator says that we're talking about a small but satisfactory string, and enough electricity to sail ground and other places, but don't expect a black cable to be built an elf, there or anywhere else. I don't believe in it, Mr. Honorable President, that people start to put it on black strings, then overinvented, and that they have an awful lot of space to move that way and so much electricity for the next 100 years or so. It's an overinvest that should be charged, too, if possible. A respectable president. Hv. A senator here asks me what's good, my dear way. Now I didn't quite understand what it was. A senator was referring to keeping the law's posetitigraphy in his possession. But the commission says, with permission from the President: The ▪Meiri part points out that the approval or rejection of a System Plan on the part of the Power Institute is a welcome administrative decision to the Power Commission on the basis of 1 mg. 30. g. Electrical layer. The decision-or-treating board is independent of its jobs, cr. 10 mg. The same article, but within six months of the publication of the decree, it can be carried out under law. Both the agreed protocol can be agreed into a whole or part of it, e.g. individual action within it and defined factors. At the same time, it may be possible for the Agency to agree or refuse the approval of a system plan on whether it is available or not. I like being able to read it right now because I couldn't find it here. A respectable president. I reiterate what I said before, this is the welcome of the electrical law. I remember that already there was. A member of the committee was on the phone with us, asking if there should be a full - scale decision committee on the way, perhaps more out of the electrical cables than can apply to the same procedure. But here it's written in law, the electric law, that it's against the charges. The question is, Mr. Honorable President, isn't this enough?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u67	Madam President. You can doubt that. You stop already as powerful a person in this area as a Organization believes this to be unclear, thinking that this is a matter of opinion. Yes, the greater part has chosen to insert this into its committee opinion, and we can agree that there is a legal explanation for it. But that's just the opinion of the greater part, that in itself doesn't have any other meaning. What happens if there are any - this is not in this system schedule bill. [[Up front.]] There is no independent warrant in these legal requirements or bill that will become a law on a system program such as this, which points to the Organization. If you want to be sure of what it is, you do it this way, saying that in this sense, the Eniscation of a system plan should be recognized as a administrative decision and be charged, etc. Well, that settles it, no doubt about it. I say exactly as it is: I want to be sure of my fault when I see in the counsels of parties such as the Organization that they think this is a vague, opinionated matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u68	V.E.G. President. Part of the fact that I'm signing this committee opinion, even though I have a warning, this article just quoted is electronic law. This bill is based on changes in the electronic law No. 65 from 2003, and they put in 9 g. With a, b, c and d. So I believe that the legal route I was here to read is applied to these articles like the other in the electronic law. But that's all right because I love that the lyrics and the articles and other things are explained so that as a lesser cause, and that our works should not always be held in court to wonder what the Council was thinking, what they said, or did not say. It has been said here that the bill and this case are restored to the Committee between discussions, but it is probably a matter of reviewing what has been presented here. As I said earlier, there are many more doubts and comments to the 2nd. but we were at 1 Peter 5: 3, which says: "I am the Son of man, the Son of man, and I am God. " Um, which is a little special. But I'll make sure that what's here, which is also a legal text installed in the Committee on this system plan - the hotline works. If there's a better thing to do in a report, I'm sure it would be. There must always be a matter of principle that this decision by the Power Institute is most welcome, as it says, and can end up with courts since they wish to have it. I reiterate what I said earlier on a special ruling committee, that it's not a legal case like that. It can be brought to the heart if it is the main thing. But I read it this way -- when it came into the report, that it's a perfect way to defend, that it's the whole process of consultation and all that, of course, that individual persons can sue and give some things - that this is sufficient. [[The president calls.]] That's what I thought, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u69	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking you for your discussion today. She's been very good. It is very important to communicate, to learn how other members of Congress feel, and to share their experiences with them on these and other subjects. I must say, I miss a certain party in the hall, because the discussion is very good. I miss the board of directors because we can easily win this case better. The discussion here has helped and should help us with a professional committee. I'd like to first say, of course, it's important to build up and strengthen the electrical power system, the electrical transport system in Iceland. I don't think anyone's gonna argue about it. But that is, as we have seen, a question of money. That's the start of it. We're giving the Landsnet a set of guidelines on line lines, on electrical cables, or a line in the air. This bill is in many ways, so that I draw something positive, a fine guide rule from the Allied on the political factors that have to do with line lines and the fixation of electrical cables in the earth, as far as it goes. We have considered and separated, defined, and developed a policy on the preparation of the basic transport system and the low-relevant distribution system and the national part of the network. We've also discussed a Senate resolution that is more about the expense or repair of cables or lines. We have given the Landsnet guidance on costs for this, because as we know it is still so, and doubtless remains, more expensive is laying strings in the earth than in the air. There is always more, more demand to place strings on the ground, and we want to build on it and improve it. But it is expensive, so there is some framework that must be made so that the government's institutions can work within it. It's been the mission. This is done well in the bill, but it's not enough. Maybe it's not possible, but I think that the bill and the committee opinion should have been more explained by examples of which way to choose in typical cases, which way to choose if a country with a lot of environmental value is crossed, which way to go to urban areas, etc. We would have had to explain it a little bit better, for as we have seen, it is very uncertain for sources of information on exactly what is meant. Of course, there's no way of being vague in the legal process, we don't want to, I think. I think we need to take a closer look. There's also another much bigger issue, and then I come to the flaws, that this bill is very tight to the organizational authority of rural society. That's the big change here. I understand both sides, I must say. I think the planning is very sacred, but I understand that when we discuss the construction of the electricity system for the whole country, an independent party will need to assess the overall interest of the country for the whole country's verse, because areas and communities can, of course, disagree with each other. But I believe it is possible to do well in consultation. With regard to the system schedule, I'd like to agree with what was presented at the moment. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Rafney Islands earlier, that a system plan should not be the same as it is now. We're labeling it from around here, from around here, and that's it. That's it. That's it. I always pictured myself and kind of assumed that we were discussing something that would come into the council between specific periods and would be holistically over it, since, of course, conditions and plans change. But I understand it so, and I hope someone will correct me if it's a false understanding, that there's absolutely a minister's custody now, or by this bill that sets the regulations of a so-called alternative line-checking system, where these lines lie. We provide guidelines on the costs and environmental issues and, in fact, other things that are not exhaustive to me, but then we're not going to discuss more about whether we are, for example. setting a line on a supernova or how to prepare it. I'm afraid that's unacceptable to me. These guidelines, or what should I say, this recipe that shape here is not enough to put it in the hands of the Landsnet and say, "Now make a decision. Or leave her to the minister, saying, "You shall find out now, and at what cost." I don't think the environmental issues are done up below my head. For example, I do not understand the value of environmental costs. How is he evaluated in a minister's choice? These are very political questions. It's a very political question if we're going to cross the blast sand, and we need to discuss it here, so that's what we're elected to do. It scares me a little, or very much, that we're somehow stamping it out once and then it's gone. It's not working. Only with the criticism that the relationship, the Organization, and others have brought to the bill. There's been a naturally tore up before and no reason to go back to it, but the main issue is: The bill is unclear. People don't understand, and then we're offering some trouble. I don't think that's what they want more than a part of the job committee, I don't think that's the case at all. We've been meeting, as mentioned, about 17 times on this case, and it's quite willing, I think, to do this properly. But we can't rush through the final meters. There has been some tendency to do so. If the biggest members don't understand what it's all about, we don't really understand where the plan is, what the rules of the game are, we need to explain it better. We will need to work it out better, and we must not do so on hand - to - hand. A respectable president. I'm gonna say good for now. I've wanted guests in between 2 and 3rd. I hope to see the committee. A professional health committee can calm down a little. For example, it's working on national planning policies for the whole country, which, of course, a system plan belongs and I would have had it done at the same time. National planning policy, I understand, should be ready this year. I understand those senators who are impatient and who say, "There's a hurry. I understand that very well, but we have to be careful and do it well, so we don't make one total gook.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u70	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The use of the third energy directive of the EU was established earlier, and it would likely be this year. It has been reported that the directive says that there must be an independent surveillance provider with such as A system plan, but the bill expects the monitoring to be in the hands of the Power Agency, which receives additional responsibility. It would go contrary to the legislation we adopt sooner than later because we are members of the EEA. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator whether it doesn't feel right that any other member, independent and independent person, is in charge of this, whether it's unusual that the surveillance of the Power Agency is under the secretary and personnel of the energy monitoring agency which is under the energy manager, if this is not a problem. Then he spoke up. Senator on national structure. Counts 'em out. A senator does not see that a synopsis proposal for national planning is expected and is soon justified that we are awaiting a system plan here at the General and will consider it more closely until that important policy is established? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u71	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. In terms of the EU electricity directive, I agree that it is inappropriate, as is suggested here, that the monitoring is in the hands of a license unit. It's not because I don't trust the Energy Agency's employees in any way, but it's an unpleasant and unfortunate position they're in. There must be no doubt as to how these matters are handled. As a result of international planning, I had always pictured it together, because we were working in other areas on a variety of structures, and I agree with the senator that we should do this together. System planning needs to be concomitantly organized because we need to know, for example, what to do. what is the main policy: Where are the lines to go? That's a big point. And then, of course, we place the meter finished and uses at the cost of lines that are set politically and professionally.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u72	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Now we may be able to assume that during the national planning policy, when it is clear, the central areas of the country are not covered by line layers like an explosion line, the results of a national organization must not be crossed. If there is no interconnection and the system plan is on its own and you don't take into account a national structure, you ask yourself, " Do I have a bigger priority? ' If it conflicts with national organization, where are we now? What law, then, goes further on that subject? Only with regard to the Generals' discussion of these issues. It seems that the decisions in these matters are completely out of the hands of the Generals if a system plan as it is established becomes a reality. Today, a four - year and so twelve - year - old transport program is not unsatisfactory, but it is proposed to the General with a Senate resolution proposal, where it is the introduction of democratic elected representatives to influence and discuss the plan. Counts 'em out. Isn't it true that the General has any access to this case, and this is not removed from the custody of democratic elected agents and placed in the hands of government agencies and officials, as seems to be a man, the authority of a community severely impaired in these matters, and we're moving matters from democratic decision making in this way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u73	A respectable president. I appreciate the questions. Regarding the first, which law goes further and where we take the administrations and the judiciary, of course, questions are perplexing. A senator rolls up. I don't have the answers to them, and that's the bad part. We don't have them in front of us. Therefore, it would be good to be careful and do this at the same time. The senator wonders what the situation would be if the result of a national organization was not to use lines over the central area or to disrupt it as if a line had crossed the blastand, and then, of course, we are in the ball. We have discussed what compromises can be made in the Committee regarding ground strings and other matters. There is now no longer any more ground wire than about 50 miles [50 km] over an explosion field, which is, of course, a great disappointment, but technically it is. But if there is a better ring connection, this way can be extended up to 70 to 100 miles, because the transport systems work together and the tension is less intense. So I think we need to take a look at this in much, much better context with each other. Then I agree with what the senator mentioned on a transportation program as an example. We're used to working with her every four years, since of course we need to change and improve, according to the nature of the matter. And it would be good if a system plan was too. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u74	A respectable president. The basic concept here and the work being done is very good and important, but it really matters how it is implemented. For example, there are very detailed reports from the European Union, where the process of extracting is widely criticized in this case. Then, too, a review from the Organization, which presents the question as well as the question. A senator came in very well, still there, for example, about where the charges are at home, etc. In the meantime. That is very convincing in the review of the Agency. Well, maybe. A senator told me why they did not try to answer the questions mentioned in the reviews. It was evidently determined, in view of the changes made, that all the comments were of virtually irrelevant importance, that it can be interpreted, since no one is specifically passed through these references to sharpen them. I think it matters when the lawgiver deals with matters and if an important agency in the administration, such as the Organization, makes such clear comments as requires that certain things and aspects be explained, because the Organization is now one of the institutions that have to work with these laws, at least to answer them in an orderly way. I'd like to hear from you. A senator's reason why she believes that it was not done in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u75	I appreciate the question. I want to say it again and again that I agree. A senator and most, I think, who here has spoken about this is a good thing, but it doesn't matter how it's worked, and that's why we're talking about it in the flesh. I cannot answer why the committee did not recognize or in some way tried to respond to this criticism, which was very detailed from the Union and the Organization. I am not on the committee's opinion, and I was actually weak when the case was taken off the committee, but the committee had many meetings. But I have to say, at the last record, the matter was worked a little fast for my taste and was a little surprised to take it from a committee at that point. There were still loose ends. We were in a lot of contact and received good guidance or a good reminder from the United States Society, who was not answered, but it was not. That's why I've requested a representative from the European Union to meet with the Committee as soon as it is settled between 2 and 3. .. because they are targeted and have suggestions that we, of course, need to make a decision and work with.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u76	A respectable president. You see, I think it's a very good and important thing. The committee evidently does not believe that these statements are somehow needed to explain, i.e. the factors being critical of in exposited data. I think there's something that needs to be reasoned with why. There are answers that need to be answered, so it is important that the answer be revealed. I think it would also be clever to have the Organization come back to a meeting before and after reviewing the case and to try to know if what is presented in the Committee would be sufficient to provide an answer to what is unclear and to be discussed in its review. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament on one point in the review of the Agency, where I also feel that the Organization is a solution and that we have ideas about how we could discuss matters and do better. A review sent in December 2 of the past states that a system plan similar to the nature and input of transport programs, so it is a national program on the basis of linear infrastructure. However, it shows that the difference is that a transport program is supplied as a General Assembly resolution but that a system plan will be in accordance with the bill and now by the supervision of a labour agency, without the presence of elected representatives. It seemed to us on the Environment and Transport Committee that it was an interesting tip. I'd like to hear from you. A senator whether in some way a professional health committee has examined that aspect and the idea that there is an option. Has it been examined in urticaria?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u77	I want to thank you again for the questions and for the idea of getting Organization to see you as well. I don't think it's unnecessary. I also discussed in my speech that the system's work programme should be similar to a transport plan or some similar arrangement where we reexamine plans periodically here at the council. Times change and plans too, and of course we need to keep pace with time. It scares me a little bit that with a stamping system, we've done the whole thing. Then there is the secretary of the Council under the regulations of an optional analysis of line lines. We will no longer take our position here except for some informal team, for example, where to cross the central highlands and how they are to be made. I think it is absolutely necessary to have given the Landsnet and other institutions the guidelines for cost and the like from the Council to work, for the costs of linework or airlines. The other is a much bigger case that we haven't done yet, and we shouldn't be doing it anymore, i.e. where to lay, because we don't just put the usual price tag on it. There are environmental issues and other factors that I don't understand how a system plan is being implemented. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u78	A respectable president. The Allied Advisory Committee requested to refer to an environment and transport committee that it gave a review of a bill to correct the conversion of electricity laws, with subsequent changes, and a proposal for a resolution of government policy on the restoration of electrical lines. Sadly, there are a number of issues that overlap with committees. In fact, we on the Environment and Transport Committee have not been much obliged to file a case in other committees. We've taken matters for granted and done them ourselves, but thank you, of course, the respect shown by the employment committee. Based on Figure 4 1.mg. 13th par. Legalized by the General Assembly, No. 55/1191, the Environment and Transport Committee in its environment includes environment, organizational and construction, transport, regional and administrative issues and their activities, and the State. Thus, the committee has confined its coverage to points under its issue and has brought up visitors associated with it. Before I cross the bill, I want to say something. There seems to be a considerable misunderstanding as to the boundaries of the country's union and legislatures. I've been listening to discussions here all day, and I think people confuse it a little. There is talk of organizational authority, a concept that is not found in the law. On the other hand, the organizational requirement is referred to in the 78th chapter of a community's self - determination rights. The constitution. However, that right can be limited by general law, so it is the lawgiver who determines the territory of the rural government, it is not the other way around. Sadly, as with today's discussions, this court is not holy in any way. In fact, we have this year or last year, the last terms, we have many songs that enter the organizational community. We've moved what's been on the hands of a local partner to the legislature and vice versa. That's why I was glad to hear it. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller mentioned that there were exceptions, called the country society dove, which made it necessary for the General to take the matter into his own hands, the legislatator had to take decisive action in delicate matters, especially when the interests were great. I was also happy to hear what I heard. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon notes that there are great differences, differences in nature, power given to governments, or power at the Council. All of this is of utmost importance, a respectable president, and is one of the points we have on the Environment and Transport Committee examined in detail by the Committee meeting. The Management Board's discussion of the bill to correct the conversion of electrical law was largely marked with a-team 2. G., on system plan and consultation with ruralities, and c-involved 2. Article 3 of the European Environment Agency (EEC) and the European Environment Agency (EEC) and the European Environment Agency (EEC) and the European Environment Agency (EEC) and the European Environment Agency (Eionet). In the terms of the bill, there is a large number of opinions involved in the self - administration and the organizational activities of the rural society, which the managers have made quite a comment. Contracts with rural areas that have interest and that other parties are implemented at 6 mg. New Article 9. a and will take place during the implementation of a system schedule. According to C- team 2. The bill should be developed by rural society to coordinate its strategy within four years of the agreed strategy. Civil authorities must ensure that organizational matters do not interfere with the implementation of projects in the established 3-year strategy and rural areas will not be allowed to deviate from the proposal of the transport company if this leads to failure to meet its obligations according to a system plan. It can therefore be assumed that rural and other stakeholders are placed in high position, e.g. Landowners, and will be able to manipulate rural areas to change their strategy in accordance with the agreed strategy within a relatively short period of time. A case treatment is not expected to result in an agreement when there is a conflict between parties, and it can be noted in this case that such unprovable measures are not to be taken for rural society to coordinate their strategy for transport, which is adopted as the decision of the General Assembly, on the other hand, a protocol is set and implemented by administrative institutions without direct implementation of democratic elected representatives. Nor is there any way that ruralisation companies need to take into account the development of rural society as expressed in their main organization, but it is essential that electrical lines do not interfere with the development of rural communities in a natural way. The majority of the items pay attention to the above points and feel that more emphasis must be made on the discussion of all parties and to progress in the earlier process so that a line fixation can be settled. In this regard, the greater portion is the 28th chapter. No. 80/2007, and on the bill for changing the current legislation at the General Assembly, which was with the Environment and Transport Committee. In the 28th C.E. The law of the law is similar to that of the C team 2. the bill for changing electrical law that a community is forbidden to deviate from the roadmaker's motion in the empty highways hides the development of rural society's ability to drive less traffic security than the motion of Vega. In the bill for changing road laws on the leviation of the Vega and of the community, the communication duties of Vega and rural society were increased by the fact that the road design should be assessed when assessing traffic security at a variable cost of road maintenance sufficiently in time so that a planning committee can take sides in the evaluation of the main structure. Then, according to organizational guidelines, there is another way of handling the matter. According to the Committee, this implementation may be considered in the bill to legalize the conversion of electricity laws, but the above is the conclusion of the consultations between the Road Building, the Association and the European Union of Icelandic rural society, and it is to be taken into account that there is a real agreement where one party is not in a position of superiority to others. I'd like to point out in the context that the misunderstanding has been that rural communities somehow can put a rock in the street of road construction. As I traced earlier, it is always Generals and the government to make a decision on road construction, but of course, we want to make sure that the negotiation is thorough and extensive with our rural society. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller mentioned earlier that he had not seen this proposal until this morning, but I am glad that he joins with an environmental and transport committee to look into a transport program when a person goes to a system plan and that the views that are based on it can be used. In fact, this was shown in the opinion of the Organization, dated December 2nd of the past. The review of the Agency is, as I mentioned, a clear review of these concerns. It also points to another opinion related to what is related, which is a matter of opinion about the nature of the decision made by the Energy Agency on the agreed strategy and whether it is relevant to the decision-making committee of environmental and resource resources, to the Commission of Electricity or Ministers. Government decisions are generally charged with higher administrations or special lawsuits, but special charges are not in the bill. In this light, you will also need to consider that according to Article 1. the bill will not need the permission of the Agency for new transport initiatives if this is to be carried out in the System Plan. Since the license team is a administrative decision, the confirmation of the Power Agency should also be a administrative decision, which will be charged with those who have legal interests in caring for the decision-making, which may be societies, stakeholders, landowners, and others. This needs to be made clear in the bill, making sure that those who have a legal interest in a system plan will come to her work at an earlier stage in order to protect their interests. The review of the Agency and the discussion of other sources of information shows that a system plan meets the standards for environmental assessment, no. 105/2006. The environment assessment of the system plan needs to be performed at the same time as the modeling of the plan and before a system plan is established by the Power Institute. It is natural to reflect in the determination of electrical laws involved in the shape of a system plan. 3 mg. New Article 9. a The Act says that a system plan should be based on practical scenarios for the development of electricity production, electricity use, market development and electricity transport to other countries as appropriate, and that in a system plan the criteria, scenarios and projections are used. Notes in the worksheet of the bill show that such criteria may include development programmes from activation initiatives in the accession and waiting classes of protection and energy efficiency programmes. In this regard, the Committee points out that a system plan exists for 10 years, and the order of activation initiatives into the generation of protection and energy efficiency programmes does not automatically include attacking the activation initiatives for these activation initiatives. The activation options set into waiting classes are even more remote. As a result, you will find that it is reasonable to base on those points in a practical program. In view of the above factors, the bill is needed in order to make significant changes. The bill goes in reverse to legalization during the past few years in that consultation with the public and stakeholders has been added to the development of major public schemes and issues directly in the process of reconciliation, rather than to the one - sided decision making, as the bill seems to be based on it. We also discuss a proposal for a resolution of government policy on the fixation of electrical lines. In general, a greater part is hailed because governments take their long - term course for the fixation of electrical lines. The structure of electricity transport systems is very important and it is necessary to strengthen the system so that all the people of the country enjoy the appropriate electrical security. The majority of the authors feel that it is proper to consider a few aspects of the synonym's decision and that the committee feels that it needs to be examined. In view of the greater part, there is increased emphasis on stratosphere fixation positive. In general, the environmental effects of earth cables are lower than those of atmospheric lines; however, they need to be considered on a environmental basis. However, for the Committee it was estimated that by 2035, about 80% of electrical lines will be buried, so that no high-voltable cables carrying 220 kilos will be placed in the ground, where the principle of the main transport system is suggested to use air lines and the main transport system is about 20% of the distribution and transport systems of electricity. The majority of the data shows that this is not consistent with the strategy developed after the past few years, to significantly increase the share of the network's landline. In this case, the majority have also been made aware of the cost of land cables and airlines, considering that a ground cord is no more than 1.5 times more expensive than an airline in order to be realistic. The majority of them believe that the cost target needs to be reviewed by the Employment Committee as well as by how it is calculated. There is a major trend in the production and quality of land cables. So in the years to come, it will be even more acceptable than it is now, but there must be a real choice. Then, the proposal in Article 2 of the Parliament will also make them more practical for the removal of tax dollars on the ground. In point 1st of the proposal, there is a reference that can justify the selection of a ground cord rather than a ceiling line, although a ground cord is more expensive than the target criteria expressed in section 1.2, i.e. if a ground cord is more than 1.5 times more expensive than an airline. The majority agree with the authorities who point out that both the criteria are insufficiently clear and not conclusively explain why the specific areas specified, but not to other areas, which are expected to have as much or more protection from environmental and social views. The proposal refers to a defined urbanity of the 53rd chapter of the country of peace. Is It Designed? No. 44/1999, flight selection with regard to flight security, national parks, and peace land protected by other than a special landscape at 53rd. Natural protection laws. Advertisers have noted that areas other than those listed may have special protection and have been identified in this connection to special water - protection areas, peoples'range of 55. Nature protection laws, a special protection area according to Article 37. Natural protection laws, areas of nature Memorial or nature protection programme, areas that are protected by rural planning programmes on the basis of organizational law, No. 123/2010, and cultural law, No. 80/2012. Then, too, care must be taken to ensure that the quality of these areas does not diminish with the fixation of the electrical lines in their perimeters. The majority agree with these statements and feel that the above factors need to be considered. They do not rule out pre-specified electrons but need to have an overall evaluation of interest. In this regard, it is urgent that not only the State's financial interests will be viewed by the management and maintenance of electric lines but also the need to be viewed for greater social interests. Well, that was a good turn, so let me say, on this subject on the committee. Yet, there is something else that stood out of the table. That explains why the smaller part decided to have a special opinion, even though, as I understand it, under what it says. Similarly, members of the Independence Party pointed out that such a committee view would, of course, have to be taken in other factors, but they agreed that it might not be part of the Committee's work cycle. I suppose they recognize their views, either in the talk or in the vote. Other than that, I want to thank the Committee for a good job. We decided to win it fast and safely, so we called for reviews, and we got many members at a meeting. There is no need to hold many meetings when there is clear reviews. Of course, we will continue to be careful with our work, as we have been doing, and it has been observed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u79	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson and, indeed, the rest of the Environment and Transport Committee for good opinion and careful work. I have already commended it here in my talk that it is a good work. It's so debateable, because of what. A senator spoke of respect, how much respect a job committee has shown this job of the environment and transportation committee. Like what? A senator correctly introduced this issue to the environment and transport sector, which is now just the case. Of course, it's a lot of environment, and it's a organizational matter. And the most advanced show in this business. In fact, the employment board should have worked largely on the basis of the environmental and transport committee, that is, in nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u80	Then it would have been necessary to come earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u81	That's what I'm talking about. What's the hurry? What's with all the sudden breathing blocks? Everything's running out of power, aren't they? I don't think so. Flass is not a cause for rejoicing. This expedition will not prove to be successful if humans use it solely as evidence that they do not have time to do things well and make a success of it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on the status of a system plan and the way this has been mentioned, that the Council finally confirmed it, for example, a ten - year frame, and after which events could determine whether the three - year construction period would always have to appear before the council, but for example, the 10 - year program was established by the General Assembly. [[Up front.]] I would point out that the process has been developing that all larger plans are adopted by the General. This applies to the transport programme, it applies to a framework plan, it applies to an equality plan, this applies to a health plan, etc. Isn't this plan so big and so important that it's a sort of weird, weird thing if it doesn't end up on its way in the Council to confirm it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u82	A respectable president. I traced it in my speech that I believe that the presence of democratic elected agents is necessary. I also pointed out that we have created some good agreement about how we are working on a transport program, which could be a role model when we create a system plan. Regarding the debate between committees, there is something I'm not going to discuss in detail in this short answer, but I still believe that when the Constitution law was accepted or changed, it reminds me in 2011, there was a number of mistakes that I think would be worthy to cross. Actually, it's a fine job I know on behalf of the President, and I know he's going to look at these factors, but I'd like to say that cooperation with a professional committee has been fine. We believed that the deadline, or the two weeks of reporting, would be a little short and kind of amazing when it is assumed that the matter would be called for sources of information. I don't think anyone here expects us to ask one another between committees or individual senators about their position in certain matters. Rather, the committees do their business by calling and looking for comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u83	Mr. President. In fact, there is an excellent way that is too little used in my opinion that the committees work to some extent when such events occur, after the events of a joint meeting where they take important guests, etc. The committees and visitors, which in many cases represent more than one panel on different trips to the council, could be saved twice. But there's something else I'd like to say for a second. A senator, i.e. what says in the review of more part of the environment and transport committee: ▪ In the opinion of the Committee, the above factors are that significant changes are needed for the bill. Today, more than a part of the employment committee now contributes to three changes; they are not important. First of all, instead of the word "organization " come a plan. Second, final verses 1 mg. 2.g. Let go, i.e. everything they say has been published in the same article previously. [[The president calls.]] Third, instead of January 1 of our last year, the law will already be accepted. [[The president calls.]] Does this measure the demand of a greater part of the environment and transport committee for major changes to the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u84	A respectable president. I agree, and I always welcome it when men, committees, or groups of people want to work together. I'm a co-worker who believes that this usually leads to the most reasonable conclusion. It is true that there is a great need to ensure that there are no bifocals between committees. That's why we put our comments on the points involved in the Committee, i.e. The environment and organizational issues that hear directly under the committee. I believe the change in nature, of putting it in some kind of transport strategy, is a significant change. Sadly, more than a part of the job committee is at a different viewpoint. I respect that, though, and I hope that the committee will consider it between the 2nd and 3rd. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u85	V.E.G. President. For one thing, I would like to thank the chairman of the Environment Commission for reading to us a review that the committee provided on February 16 of the past. In many respects, I was surprised by the comments of most of the parts. It contains many of the things presented here as critical - I do not say dejected but highly critical; and many warnings are made. That is why I say, a respectable president: I am sorry that the chairman of the Committee has not promoted the success of the committee and has returned it earlier. Like what? paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask said earlier, whatever the pace of the case, whatever the situation, must have a discussion between the committee, the committee, how the cases are discussed, and when to take them off committees, as we do on the job board, to the 2nd Environment. As we know, there has been a little bit of a matter missing from the Board of Directors to discuss at the General Assembly, we can see it from today's schedule and plans this week that there are not many cases in the administration team. The headline presents many examples: The more part pays attention to the above points and believes that the more emphasis must be placed on... --and so on. In the bill, you need to be clear about this and be careful... ▪ In the opinion of the Committee, the above points are that considerable change is needed for the bill. So the committee feels that this needs further inspection. That's how it's all through the review. That's why it's my question of this review that comes out so late, which I reiterate had to come forward earlier: A senator of this bill as it is? Or was the senator saying at the end of his talk that this need to go back to a committee between 2 and 3. ... thatI completely agree with? And more than that, after hearing the government's lawsuit, I couldn't help but agree more. þm. The Höskuldur of Thorhall's son is that significant adjustments must be made. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But backs it up. Senator of this bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u86	A respectable president. First, I would like to refuse the claims that the environmental and transport authorities' reviews were late. We took only the time we've been in all other matters, called for reviews, and arranged for a meeting. The committee's program, many topics we are considering, and the situation started to focus. I couldn't find that any man, in either the greater or less part, made comments at that rate. I also know that a professional employment committee has worked well in this case. The reason why there are differences, shades of opinion, is the opinion of the employment committee and the environmental and transport authorities is perhaps that we are merely considering aspects of the work cycle of the Committee. We must assume that when the committee addresses matters from another committee, the question is being asked to a specific feature; it is not to ask the committee to consider the details of all the issues in the same way as that committee does itself. It would be a double act. I think it explains mostly the differences in the nuances of the employment committee and the environmental and transport authorities' comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u87	V.E.G. President. In my second answer, I'm going to give a little more attention to the procedure as a matter of course. paritaprevir Þórhallsson, chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, has been in charge of this matter. I can see in the conferences of the employment committees that 18 meetings have been conducted on this matter, but two committees of environmental and transport are listed on the subject, November 17, and December 10. The case was sent on November 12th by a labour board, with a deadline to November 26th, and, as noted in the case data, two meetings are listed on the Environment and Transport Committee. It may be -- I'm going to make it clear, more distinguished President -- that not all of the conferences have been approved by the Environment and Transport Committee, but it seems, in February, that the case was not discussed. A respectable president. So in my second answer, I'd like to criticize the head of the Environment and Transport Committee for coming so late with the warning above. [[The president calls.]] I can tell you for my part - I was sick last week -- that I did a review for the first time in committee documents. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. This was nowhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u88	A respectable president. I listened to a talk. A senator earlier. There he realized that he was pleased to see our suggestion that transportation would be considered in the design of a system plan. He said, if I recall correctly, that it was new to him (I see that the rulers of the council nod - but he was told this morning. This, however, is very clear in the direction of the Agency. I guess that's passed it by then. A senator I think is considered critical of his work. We're supposed to read that opinion. Of course, meetings were held after the New Year's Eve. That's the nature of it, otherwise it probably wouldn't have been possible to accept the bill. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u89	February 16th.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u90	As the senator correctly pointed out, this has now been so that there have been times when meetings will be approved. [[A week ago.]] [[The president calls.]] But maybe I want to point it to what? A senator is also in good collaboration with his partners on the Environment and Transport Committee, who were very attentive to the progress of the situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u91	Mr. President. Let's talk about it. A senator was quite legal for me. My experience with lawyers is usually that they do not always manage to simplify things, but I usually have. At times, a senator has been able to explain the complex issues clearly. I was not much closer after a talk. Senator. I felt that there was a degree of inconsistencies between the relatively vague and speculative opinions he had here before and on the other hand, quite clear to the previous part of his speech. Senator. Hv. A senator, and the greater part in his opinion, says that a substantial change in the bill is needed to accept it, but it was relatively vague in the opinion of the changes. It only became clear to me when it happened. A senator gave his speech here earlier. I'd like to bring two questions to him so I'd rather understand what he was going to do. The first question is this. Counts 'em out. A senator's need for a bug in the bill that a system plan will be submitted to the General, such as a transport plan? Second of all. Does he think he has to enter the bill a clear lawsuit? A case of this kind, it's perfectly fixed, it's gonna create difficulties, tensions, and disputes. It's always that way. In the end, people simply have to accept the conclusion, but they must try to make adjustments so that they will be satisfied with the career itself. I don't think the process is light or clear in the bill. And what I find to be a major tool for and neglect on the part of the government is a clear directive of the charges. [[The president calls.]] I realize what you can find in the electronics laws, but I feel that there's a clear way out on this particular bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is that what it is? A senator was saying that he had to come in? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u92	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson explained this correctly with regard to the charges. I seem to have done quite a job on the job, I think it's quite clear, but I pointed out that the bill had to be fixed, and I'm glad that, of course, if a professional employment committee has won something in that situation. For a transport plan, yes, I can completely repeat it here again, I believe the presence of democratic elected agents needs to be ensured. I believe, as in any other matter, that it should be democratically elected representatives of the entire nation. I believe that there might be a very good way to believe that when a system plan arose, it would be discussed and confirmed at the General Assembly. I don't think it would delay at any time or at all. There is a tremendous urgency in many areas when we secure electricity and electricity transport. Of course, it is the capital of a number of cleaning places, but rural society has certainly prevented it from doing so elsewhere. Then I also pointed out that although I would like to have much and extensive consultation with my community, the Allied Parliament and democratic elected representatives of the entire nation must have their final answer. So I'd like to state that I think it's kind of embarrassing that the members of the doorway are trying to create some disagreement between the employment committee and the environment and transportation committee. There has been an excellent partnership, an excellent teamwork, and all I have to believe is that we can work well together in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u93	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is like a horse with a stroke in his eyes, trying to take over a bridle. He's trying to get a little off this case. That doesn't mean why. A senator is to refer to a speech of the highest order. A president earlier today on the case when he was questioned on the charges. His answers were not clear to me, but it doesn't matter. What matters is that. A senator himself spoke in his speech. He simply said, whatever he now says in his second speech, that there was more clear evidence for a lawsuit on the bill. That's what it said. Senator. He will have to decide for himself if he would like to change his mind in that regard. The other is very important. A senator makes it clear that he believes that the bill needs to establish a system plan before the council and the democratic elections will discuss it. Then I'll ask why. A senator: Will he accept the bill without this law coming into it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I ask him, too, how in the world is it possible that if this is his opinion, why didn't he suggest it as a change in opinion? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u94	A respectable president. At the time I've been here, I've come to realize that when people want something to be blurred, that may not be quite the spirit they hoped for, they don't leave and want to understand it, even if it's clear. I'll just go over it. This is so that the pro board wishes to be respected. We give our opinion on the bill, and we say that the case needs to be clear. In the past, I said I was impressed with everything in spite of our committee's opinion that a professional employment committee had done quite a bit better there and allowed me to refer to a good word already. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. I think it's good for all members of the Parliament to wait on big statements and let the employment committee take the case back in between the 2nd and 3rd. and see what changes will be made if after this discussion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u95	A respectable president. This is a lot of interesting discussions, and it may be possible to answer the question in this way that occurred earlier on the basis of the failure of these points. ... thatthe detailed narratives of the European Union and the Organization, which I find most interesting, were not then established, and they did not have as much material in their hands as at this time to cover matters in 1st. These comments have now been made. The reason for the discussion is as varied as it can be seen is that the employment committee's opinion does not answer the opinion presented in these reviews. It would have been very helpful for the discussion if these comments had been addressed and if an attempt had been made to address the main criticism issues found there. Then I'd also like to mention that there is a bit of a strange situation that we on the other members of the Senate would have with our friends, as in this case, where we are asked to be reporters on specific aspects of the matter being discussed in other committees. The other committees, where we too are loaded with projects and needs, may ask, " What is the position of my position in these other committees? ' It needs to be arranged in some way. I know that this case was adopted this morning by members of Congress and presidents, and it will continue to investigate and in what way members of the Parliament are expected to work together in the future on such issues as this. We're often put in a very unpleasant position, I don't talk about if we're walked by then, or the review board, and she's asked to bring a ◯konkret-a-mutation proposal. Is that the role of the Commission? So we need to reflect on all of this because if it's to be the role of the Commission, I think it would be most expedient that the committees met and the committees, in this case the head of the transport and trade committee, talked about the arrangements of the visitors so that the environmental committees will attend the meeting for visitors. There would be joint meetings to discuss the factors involved in the review of the environmental committee. In this way the committees could have some sort of discomist of what could be done to link them to the program so that the discussion could not be held in a chamber. Then we would have been on the committees going through the matter together. It would be to reduce the double action here at the council, and the time of all of us would be more useful. I think we should consider it as a future arrangement because no one wants to be working extra hours to receive visitors, as was the case with the Environment and Transport Committee. I state that it was very useful on our committee. Nor does anyone want to feel as if we feel a little bit now, i.e. such as that kind of work was kind of useless because nothing is done with the work we were working for. We had some meetings, had visitors, and then nothing is done with our comments except that people are fighting back against that job here at the Assembly Hall. But we were asked for this review, so she must have some weight and some publicity, otherwise it's a waste of our time. A respectable president. This was about the work environment, and I hope we do this as a theory and then start changing our work ethic so that it will be more efficient and we can somehow round or form a procedure on matters that overlap with committees to the future so that we can all enjoy pleasures. I'm here in the hands of a review that I may need to explain briefly. I have a review that we have in the smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee returned, not because we do not agree with the comments made by the majority but simply because we wanted to round certain other factors. We'll agree with the review as long as possible. paritaprevir Þórhallsson, director of Environment and Transport Committees, studied earlier, but there are several things we would like to do better. We take our review under the comments of the majority of the elements involved in terms of the bill's requirement for changing electricity laws to the position of the transport company's system to the organizational authority of the rural community. In our opinion, in the smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee, there is too much progress in this and the transport enterprise itself is entrusted with power to deviate from democratically elected representatives of the rural community without adequate consultation. The smaller section feels that it will be improved and that the implementation of the electronic transport system should be considered as being the equivalent of a therapeutic approach to the Council, such as a transport program. This discussion has already been discussed in the past by others who have discussed this matter and who, in fact, came from the direction of the Organization since December 2 of this magazine. It's worth a lot of attention. I hope that because we mention this in our comments on the Environment and Transport Committee and the discussion that has taken place here -- and I hear no better than the positive attitude of professional officials to consider it better - that the section will be considered closely between 2 and 3. and whether or not to wait on the case just because it's creative. We need to examine with an open mind whether the environment around transport programs are not relevant in this situation. I think it's worth the whole trip. It ensures that the national democratic elected representatives make the plan, as well as that their vastness of value will be taken into account. We also feel that there is a great lack of environmental considerations in the bill and it seems to me that the outcome of the case from a job committee is not going to correct it, but in accordance with Article 3. 2.g. The bill, a team, should be a system plan for ten years based on practical scenarios for the development of electricity production, electricity use, market development and electricity transport to other countries as appropriate and in a system plan should be defined as the criteria, scenarios and projections used. In this regard, we feel that the explanations given in the comments of the report directive cannot be addressed, but it shows that the modeling of a 10-year system plan should be considered for activation in the upcoming and waiting table of the framework. It is evident that while priming options are organized into a frame design, this alone does not constitute a decision to enable them to end the environmental impact being carried out, the implementation of the Commission, and other entirely afterwards, it is going to go through it all. Set-up options only means that the license process will begin. All right, then, let us say that they use this as a set of standards, and it can be done in predictions. But worse than that, the bill refers to a waiting chain of frame programs. The waiting category of frame rules is nothing more than options that have not been covered. So how can humans use it to build some kind of projections on the long - term development or use of electricity? It's just not possible, and it doesn't give an actual picture of the case. So we feel that it is entirely impossible to mention it as one of the reasons in the report, but it just doesn't work. The waiting party is a group that will totally go through, that will end the discussion on the benefits there are. How, then, will people use it to make plans to build up the transport system for longer than ten years? I don't think it's possible, and I feel that a professional health board should now have considered just how a waiting group is going to put together a structured 10 year schedule. We also state that it is not reasonable to base on these points in a practical program. We agree with a greater proportion of the Commission that the bill needs significant changes in the context of these issues, and we also believe that environmental considerations need to be taken into account as to the extent of the environmental impact of lines. It lacks it in the bill, as the client has noted. For example, if we look at the comments of the European Union's member countries, it is very much presented in this discussion as well as in the direction of the Agency that has been discussed. This is the condition of the bill's goals, but it does not happen in its own articles that you follow them. We in the smaller part of the Environment and Transport Committee agree that in a proposal for a government resolution policy, we should place more emphasis on landlines, we agree. To accomplish this, the cost point of 1.5 is too low. In our view, we also need to look beyond the proposed viewpoints. The cost of growth, management and maintenance should be looked out for in the long term as well as for evaluation of the interests involved at each particular time. We will also agree with the managers who point out that more areas are to be listed in point 1.3 in the suggestion that they should be allowed to deviate from the Earth's thresholds due to the fixation of electrical lines in specific areas. Actual harmony with nature protection laws must be taken into account, it is of utmost importance, and the areas protected by that law. According to our opinion, the lesser part of the Committee, nature should enjoy the doubt in line with the environmental precaution, which is largely lacking in this matter. Under this heading, write along with the one that stands here, why. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall and what? paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. As you can see from the review of the section, the reason why two reports came from the Committee is not that we disagree but that we only wanted to share more information. As I told earlier, I am amazed that there is no answer to the good and very detailed comments coming from the European Union, a representative of the local community, who will be subjected to the beating, as well as from the Organization, which is here making very important comments in many teams. I think they're a little light on the job committee. There are no attempts to pass through them or to try to answer them and to tell them why they do not feel that the changes proposed in these headlines are not necessary. As a result, the rest of us who have not been through this case with the Committee, i.e. through the decision why it's not to do, we're a little bit busy. We do not know the reasons of the majority of the employment committees for why not e.g. □ Why should we not be too busy to approach the European Union? □ Why do we not want to explain the facts? □ Why should we not look to the concept laid out in the Agency's directive to handle these matters in a similar way as the transport and repair roads? All these answers are lacking, so all the questions raised while reading these accounts remain. I feel that we need a clearer answer to them, and I know that there has been a meeting of the Committee between discussions, and I really hope that there's something wrong with this and answer to members of Congress who are supposed to be paying for this vote here, something about these matters. Then I'd like to go through the planning of the Agency just because there's an interesting point that I want us to try to answer before we finish. There may be some good answers, but we must present them and work on them. On page 18. 1 The review of the Agency is reminded by the legislation on environmental impact assessment, No. 106/2000, assessment of environmental impact should be performed prior to authorisation. If you have dropped from the provision of the Energy Agency for transport, it will still be necessary to obtain a post-authorisation from the local government, but in the case of transport mechanisms involving more than one member of the community, the implementation of each member of the community is only part of the enterprise. Because the Organization considers these objects, questions arise as to whether by the change, an important license team is to set the criteria for the overall appearance, shape and structure of the transporter, with regard to the results of this environmental assessment. It's not yet been answered, and I think it's important that we take that point for a special consideration. There are, of course, other factors and have been discussed a little about them here, i.e. The comments of the Agency, which turn to the leaves, can be found in a number of teams on the page. 2 of their review. I encourage those who want to study the matter more carefully because it is of course important to answer that question, for the review of the Agency points out that to them the charges are blurred. I feel like the only answer they've received is, "Yes, that's for sure. Yes, yes, we know. However, they here show that there is uncertainty about the way things should go. Is it a matter to go to the Committee on Environment and Resources, the Power Management Board, or is that the decision of the Power Agency? It might be understood that the Power Institute is there with a administrative decision that may be a complaint to the minister. They're just asking that this route be explained in some way in the bill, but that's not done. It would be good, then, for a person to take a case for it, even if it was only the right to scan it. There is something else in the review of the Agency that is not answered sufficiently, a respectable president, and I agree completely after going through the matter. The Organization and the European Union correctly point out that one of the aims of electronic energy law is to consider the environmental issues and must be followed by some visible emphasis in other articles and in the system. It's completely missing. I think people should take a closer look at that point between discussions. Other things I would like to mention here, and finally I'd like to think about it, because my time is running out. I know the Committee's going to discuss this case, and the chairman's around here, but it would be good if you took a serious discussion about whether the creative process of transportation, long-term and short-term programs is not working here as well. This could be a great deal of the criticism presented in the comments I have considered and it could also be a greater and better way of reconciliation than we are left behind in this payment because it is completely clear compared with the data presented, and especially the two that I have mentioned here, that if we handle it this way, we will resolve matters that are incomplete because it will still answer all the important questions that were raised in their reviews. And where are we now? [[The president calls.]] Then we're in the middle of some uncertainty, and we're creating more problems than we're going to solve by continuing with it like this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u96	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The applications that we received on a professional committee included criticism from the Sunnian Company Association. It says that a system plan is expected to be installed on a rural society within four years of approval. A question is asked or therefore wondered if there is no better option for the legislatator to install the system plan into a national structure policy established by the General Assembly. I'd like to hear an attitude from you. A senator for that. We've been waiting for a national planning program, and you feel that there's a risk that these two things can overlap if they don't, as proposed by the Southern Country Association, to install the strategy into a national structure policy established by the General Assembly. Also, I wonder at what I would like to bear. A senator, whether it is necessary to identify who has a harmonisation to landowners as it is according to the bill that the rural communities should change their organization on the basis of a system plan. I want to hear her attitude toward it. Regarding the discussion, the scheme of consultations with the Landsnet and the Power Institute is spoken of as six weeks off. Is that not too short for such important matters? Don't you think it takes more than six weeks?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u97	A respectable president. If I come to the very last, this is a short time, and especially when we look at such uncertainty as it seems to me, this case will create in terms of the trial and the underlying issues. There are not many ways, and it seems to me that this is the most intense thing we've seen in legislation, because we see rural communities in various ways in various legislations, and it's done well in some of the hearsays under this issue. We can see an example in the laws on a frame plan. These are rural areas, and they are to conform their organization to a frame plan, i.e. The colony and the protection party. However, there are articles in which all of this softens down considerably. Farming has ten years and then three years to adapt, and within that framework, it is often assumed that changes have occurred, so the rural communities have very much time. Here, however, bans are expected, they have four years, six weeks to make comments, and they are driving things a little elegant ahead, especially in view of the fact that they are being set as hard as they really are. It may well be that this should be done by national planning, whether or not this should be created, like the transport process all together, whether or not this is going to be done to soften it only as the law on a framework, I feel that it will all be considered. But I think the way that you put it is completely impossible. She's going way too far. The case is incomplete in my opinion, and it has not been discussed sufficiently about other options, perhaps better than the one assigned here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u98	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. It has called attention to the fact that in 2 C.E. The bill does not take the least into account the environment, nor does it mention tourism, regional policy. I'm sorry. Don't you think it's unusual that everything is taken out of a system plan, that they don't have it when it's under control? They have been criticized in reviews. I'd like to hear some thoughts, too. A member of the third European Union electricity directive, which we are obliged to record, may soon become. It stipulates independence in monitoring the implementation of a system plan. Counts 'em out. A senator of adequate independence from the Power Institute? Don't you think there's some other independent person involved, with all due respect for the Power Institute? Hv. A senator developed plans such as a transport program designed for the General. There are other plans, e.g. A communication plan and a community plan. All of these are plans that will be discussed at the Council. Is not a plan perfectly comparable, should it not be discussed at the General Assembly, where democratic elected agents will be able to access the case? Got it. A senator was not bringing this all too far from the democratic elected representatives and to government officials and institutions? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u99	A respectable president. It would have been beneficial if the committee, as a whole, had attacked to try to answer all the questions. A senator has served. Many of the questions and criticisms, however, appear largely in some of the comments that came to the committee from different sources. So it's not like it's Communist propaganda from the left direction or something, it's not about that. The question here is being asked very important; it's not about bad left people or any other group having some boring effect. It's simply about the fact that this case leaves many questions. They leave questions about whether or not we have too far to enter the autodevelopment rights of our rural society compared to other existing legislation. We have examples of how this is done in a much milder way than we see here. It's one of the roughest ways, at least Which I quickly remember. Then there are questions that need to be answered from the Organization, which is quite accustomed to working with complex legislation, and that is done every day at work, not just one law of law, but many and must be looked to and shared. To them, it is not clear what the charges are. That is why I am so surprised that people did not try to answer the questions. I'm like a whisk. A senator full of questions after this review, and I think there's going to be an attack on that in the review of the Committee between 2 and 3. to answer the questions that remain. No one is willing to do this by working in harmony with this law if those aspects are blurred.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u100	Mr. President. I'd like to start by asking who. A senator would be wise to have this discussion checked out, and the committee took the matter into account before the 2nd. So that we could get it back after the Commission coverage and after some events in cooperation with an environmental and transport committee. If you read the main results of both the share and the lower part of the environment and transport committee, it's clear that there's not a slight change in the bill, but there's a great deal of work to be done. I also find myself in a similar direction regarding the organization or outside of the organization and increasingly agree that there was a role in the solution of this matter, that would not be enough, but it would be a big change if the final part of a strategy was in the General Assembly, like the many plans we've mentioned. It would also be of value in my opinion because I believe that the organizational authority of the local community is limited to the result that ends with the responsibilities of the General Assembly and where the democratic election of the General Assembly confirms that there are justifiable restrictions on the authority of the rural community instead of the implementation of the European Commission, the interest department, stamped by the Power Institute. Everyone sees that in the democratic context there is a difference. Second, they would serve the idea that all persons could return their views, which would determine if in the so - called agreement a reasonable and reasonable consideration of the viewpoints presented there would be an option for all to return to their views. Third and last, I ask why. Councilman: Is it not the danger that if this is done, it will simply be moved to a new battlefield, where there will be the struggle to prepare a system plan, and after the cases involved in charges and judicial cases about it? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u101	A respectable president. Only if I thought it was reasonable to believe that the discussion would be stopped now and that the subject would be accepted back into a committee would, of course, be the best. It was simply so that we, on the Environment and Transport Committee, did our best to respond to the demand we had received from us and tried to achieve it successfully. We had no more time than we had to witness, and I think she got a professional committee at the same time that the committee took care of the situation. This suggests that the two committees did not get along with the issue with a clear contrast in approach to it. This, on its own, may be a reason to avoid the employment committees'regulations to listen more carefully to the views we had to offer. I believe, therefore, that it might be wise for the chairman of the Committee to request that we settle this matter and go through these views together in a calm manner rather than to do so here each for a misunderstanding. Only on whether or not they're moving the line. Yes, it is. Why do I say that? Because it's gone very far into it, i.e. The scope of the community's approach is very narrow, and this must cause them to decide to start right away at every level using the opportunities, tools, and tools available to achieve their own way of walking. Hence, it would be most successful to seek a career of reconciliation, as is suggested in a number of the comments presented here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u102	Mr. President. I think it's always becoming more established that it was not time for a greater part of the job committee to complete their discussion on the subject. In fact, I think there is reason to believe that in some cases some professional committees did not see this opinion by the end of the work of the Committee. That, in effect, appeared here today. This may be explained by absence at a single meeting, but at the same time, the employment committee provided the matter and gave the best and detailed environmental and transport committees. In fact, I attended one meeting on the job committee, and during the second meeting, the committees were prepared, that was, before anything had come from the Environment Committee, and I don't see that the committee's opinion has changed much from that trend, to be honest. I think it is quite obvious that the more this is involved and the more people are suspicious of the process and that they feel like they are paralleled or confined in the process, such as rurals, landowners, partners, and other such factors, there is a lack of commitment to good compromises and partnerships coming out of the process. That's what I don't think is really around here in an adequate way, and that's what I really mean by moving around. There is no time to exchange opinions and to look for solutions, and it is quite clear that there is too much power in the shipping company, the Power Institutes stamping, and people will experience themselves so that they can, as it were, communicate their views, make sure they meet and listen to them, but it is perfectly clear where they are power. The power really lies at the shipping company. That makes the suggestion to the Institute of Energy, to confirm, and the power is in possession of the proposal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u103	A respectable president. This is also one of the factors that the Organization brings up in its comments as vague, as if they were contradictions. According to 1st mg. New Article 9. a It is planned that a transport company should submit a system plan for the Power Institute to be agreed with. But according to Article 1. the bill will not need the permission of the Agency for new transport initiatives if this is to be carried out in the System Plan. There are several such points that are cited in the reviews. I'm not going to say that a professional health - care committee has not handled the matter well or has not responded well and that their conclusion is a bad one, I'm just asking that at least such matters be answered, so they reason why they don't think they should listen to what is said here. For the rest of us, the questions are completely left entirely behind, so I call for men to try to look more specific than the others and to address all major opinions. That's when it's time. A senator brings up the issue of whether the disagreement is not just moving. It also says that as soon as it's important to fix an efficient strategy and make an internal decision, I don't think any of us are going to make a plan, we all agree on it, it's just about the implementation and the criticism that has come from the management system of existing exports and we're going to agree. It also states that it is relevant that the Law is based on a procedure that can lead to reconciliation where differences are anticipated and can often arise between these parties rather than go the way here, just squeeze the person, push them almost completely into an angle, and send them into some vague lawsuit. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u104	A respectable president. First, I want to say that in itself there is no doubt in my mind that such a law has to be passed, and I think everyone agrees that there is a full bill like what we're talking about. The issue may be primarily about how the law is done and how it is adapted to the references and material arguments received from the council and to the committees of the council in the work that has taken place in the past month. First, what's going on here? Transporters are expected to create a system plan, provide it for Power Institute to be agreed and i.e. The transport system structure system in electricity. That's what everybody agrees about. It is then the Power Institute that monitors the implementation of a system strategy and should evaluate how it is followed up and the Power Institute is permitted to demand that transport companies change the system strategy as the Agency considers the need. After reviewing the status of a system strategy for rural society, it has made some major changes that the rural community has spoken, in fact, under its heading, says that in order to solve the problem, the European Union of Icelandic rural society had the request to express to the Ministry that in explanation with the bill was clear, preferably with practical examples, whatever problems were intended to solve by means of the strategy proposed in the new Article 9. c. This is actually taking planning authority from rural areas and moving to the administrative agency, to the Power Institute, in fact, to a shipping company if its programme has received the blessing of the Agency. Such a program is not expected to be published at the General or to be discussed after the proposal is submitted and applied. She won't be throwing elected agents anywhere. Then you must ask: Well, there must be some material evidence that this is the way it is done, and it must be found in the committee list of more of the committees, who feel that the matter has grown up and put it here. But it is not, and in fact, none of the questions and criticisms that are raised by a number of clients are offered an answer to the committee's list of parts of the employment committee. It's actually pretending that it didn't come, it's nowhere to be found, and you wonder when you read the case and then read the reviews of the section, what the narratives really are, what it's really thinking on the part of a major part of the employment committee, what ideas are involved in the process when you don't even have a physical answer to the criticism and answer a team in the committee's party and say: Well, this is a reason for us to choose this route. No, it's just that this argument has not been heard, has not been said, has not been sent to the committee. This is a major fault at the work of the Committee, and that is, of course, the question that many have been asking themselves today: Wait, is this case ready? Is it in place that we should be here at 2 Timothy 3: 1? ... awrong.? You will hear, although only on a small part of the environmental committee, that there is a lack of a good and positive attitude to that work song. Workaholics at the council, yes, on this process, more than part of the job committee at the council. [[Up front.]] It's very serious. It is all in the same book when it comes to existing environmental issues, whether it is in the framework of a natural pass or in this case, as far as possible, an effort is made to overlook environmental issues, try to ignore environmental views, there are no points to be weighed, at least no consideration for them. It's quite remarkable that the Commission's review says, with the permission of a president: The Union agrees with the indications shown by many sources, that environmental considerations are greatly lacking in the text of the bill. It is thought - provoking when the European Union of Icelandic rural society - which I am not saying is some environmental problem but lies its interests elsewhere, it is primarily to protect local interests - where they are moved to see in their comments about the bill that there are not sufficiently discussed about the environmental issues involved. What are we talking about? What is the real value of this issue? That, of course, is what we come to give back to the next generation. After all, it is the only real value that our generation can bring to the next generation; it is a clean country and beautiful, unambiguous, natural nature that has been handled, pure water, unquenchable view, and careful environmental management. Why do people think there are millions of tourists here? To examine electrical lines? Of course, this is because we have blessedly managed to keep our country clean and beautiful and treated it well, even though much desire exists to activate very widely and to get the so - called wheels started, which are very old - fashioned wheels that people talk about in that context. And the majority of the members of the council have a bad idea when they walk forward repeatedly, not only in this matter, but also in a frame plan, including in the natural right, to overlook the committee that is to be considered specifically about nature protection, the environment in the legislation. It is a very determined violation of the greater part of the employment committee, not just in this matter, but in many others. Let it be, for example, that there is only a determined offense, that is not the will to give the benefit of the doubt to nature. Does this mean that the organizational matters have their address to a professional health committee? No, they're not. Is the unit's administration a contingency on a professional committee? No, they're not. They don't belong on that committee. They're on the environment and transportation committee, and they've been given a lot of time and so I'm using wording as quickly as I can. A member of the greater part of the employment board, well, was treated with an environmental committee such as any member of this case, one of the World Council's fixed committees, who is only able to get the same trajectory as other emissaries in this matter. And when the committee could not bring back in due credit or review, it is taken away from the Commission on that day, prior to the Commission's position, the majority opinion of the employment committee, and no comment is taken into account by the Environment Commission. This is now an expression of the mind and will behind it. The same is true when it comes to a frame plan. It is carried out by complete disrespect, not only to other members of the council, but also to the legal structure to be carried out, to set up laws on the framework, protection and use. A brain and half of the activation option has been taken out of parentheses into so - called quick treatment. When you plan to learn how to use priming options that are in a project management rush, you must consult the law on quick treatment, but you will find that no such chapter is in the law. Nothing is expected to be done in this way. It's like this with our hand, because we want it, because we think it should be this way. It's just a fluffy political bitch. It is also reflected in the case under consideration, and an enormously serious comment is made on the case by many sources. How do they respond? Yes, there are three changes made that are word changes. There are no chemical changes in the case. One of them is about the date, the date of the law, because the case was presented last year, and it was assumed to be on January 1, but now it's supposed to take effect right now. Despite all the comments received and really did not listen to one single argument, there are no material changes in the case. I'm going to step back in the context of a Union Community partner, but the case was discussed in the Federal Organizational Committee of the Union, and it should be possible to attend a number of case reports, such as the European Union, which generally place a huge amount of work in their narratives. These are not monofilms, but they are a very careful legal opinion that is worth giving very good attention because there is a very good work to be done there. What does the National Department of Organizational Affairs say? ▪ In view of the Commission's opinion, the bill is neglected, and in particular lacks a much more difficult explanation by this and more clear support for the proposals for the loss of rural planning. Criticism is that little or nothing is in the environmental context of the bill. In view of the great problems involved, the Committee believes that the Council calls for better work and then brings back the bill. If there is no reason at all, a careful discussion of the matter will be made at the General Assembly and therefore give the time needed to achieve the most comprehensive reconciliation. These are very good tips from the European Union and answers to these indications must be found in the Committee on Work Committees. But no, this comment is not mentioned at all. They just pretend they're not there, they're not answering, it's not answering, it's just some pipe in a town in some country, it doesn't matter. Or how should you read the silence that comes from a large part of the job committee? What material reasoning does the majority of the committee have against this? Just shrugging your shoulders, don't you say anything? Just take the case into the Senate Hall and get it done in votes? Do they run through in the power of the greater part of the council? It's such a bad practice that I've never really seen anything like it at the time I've been here at the council. It is as if the majority of the committee simply did not add material support with their work and their conclusions. It's like a majority of the Committee just asked Landsnet how do you want it? We'll take care of it. Let's just make sure it's exactly the way you want it to, and we'll pretend we don't hear any objections. What democratic thinking is behind such practices? Is this really a practice that should be practiced during the council, that material reasoning is simply not answered? That men should think of themselves as if nothing was wrong and act as if criticism had not come true? At least, I'd think, to answer that kind of thing, to come out with material reasoning, saying, "Well, we want to keep it that way, because our rural communities have not been in a position to decide anything. " You must then have the courage to say such things. But there are no such arguments because the bill is handled as if on an assembly line and no changes were made. Hence, it is a very reasonable requirement that more of the committees do not call the matter into account between 2 and 3. and make the changes needed to be made - because I think it is so grown that it can be achieved in the council, that most people would agree that such a law needs to be made, or everyone, but not in this way. As a result, the majority of the Committee's committees have handled matters without realizing that these devices are completely below all caves and inadequate. The matter must be done much better, that there will be a greater requirement for those who serve at the council to serve as members of the Parliament than it does here in the Floodlike majority of the members of the Committee on the Work. They are required to support their beliefs, to give material reasons for their conclusions, and to show the need for the changes being made, to show in what way their community planning is not at home, why it is, what has failed, and how they want to solve it. In the meantime, this matter cannot be taken seriously. In the meantime, there is no way to expect that there will be any progress here at the council, not when compared to members of a party and brothers and sisters, more than a part of the work committee. There are quite a cold welcomes that have been received by the council members here today, at least not many of them are waving the flag for the case here in the Senate room at the moment. So I don't think it's too much of a lot to say here. The employment committee, the majority of it, reached a certain minimum in their work at the council in bringing the matter to the council completely unassigned. There is really nothing else for her to do than call the matter back, of course work in cooperation with an environmental committee, and carefully review the reports received, carefully review the reports of the environment and transport committee, and see if the necessary changes can be made, and reach a better solidarity to complete the situation. That would be a great idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u105	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The bill shows that a frame plan is used as the basis for a system plan. I'd like to hear some attitude. That's what a senator is for. We know that the benefits of a novelty and of course a waiting class are not, so it is, in fact, a series of initiatives, and I would like to ask you why. A senator whether it was more correct, as Land Protection has noted, to use electrical projections. As a result, I'd like to ask him why. A senator on what was said in the review of the Natural Protection Association of the Southwestern states that today's strategy is based on an overrated demand for electricity transport. Are we driving to put energy - consuming industry into each of the fun and in all the parts of the country? What's the need? Doesn't it have to be a small amount of like when we're making such important decisions that come up with a system plan and projects in which this is actually determined? I'd like to hear from you too. Senator on 1st. the bill, that the Power Agency does not need to be allowed for a new transport initiative, if it is expected in the system plan, whether it is normal that the Agency does not need to be allowed specifically for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u106	A respectable president. I think this case would be of great improvement if the strategy and plans were to be prepared for a discussion at the council in a manner comparable to the interpretation of a transport plan and a communication plan, for example, and a frame plan, so that there would be a regular development and an open and democratic debate about what is going on here. Sadly, though, the Law covenant does not assume that. You're right. A senator points out that it is assumed that, as the case says, there is a framework and a waiting group of frame programs, which are slightly strange, that men are working on for the first group, which has not been determined, whether or not to use, and, anyway, use of the method, because there are very many priming options already, which have not been decided to make any decision to use of, i.e. Before proceeding, the organizational procedure will be completed. I think if you're going to target these two groups, they're gonna be a little quick there. Of course, it is only natural to have the means, human planning, and to have solid ground and to know exactly what energy is going to go and to plan properly, not as it is now, where people put tremendous importance on driving some continuumories through and then being able to sell cheap electricity to those who want to buy. It's an old-fashioned job structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u107	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'd like to get in there, too. A member of the Parliament, depending on whether he or she does not believe that a system plan should be implemented for environmental assessment. As I understand the bill, it's not expected. We've also discussed national policy, and it's being done today. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he believes a strategy should be implemented for national planning, that it works together. Not to be accepting now a system plan bill, and then a national policy that may not allow for, for example, construction on the central or some part of the country, to take it out of parentheses, and these two may be cut. There have been cases of lawsuits and a greater proportion of the employment committees in their committee of opinion that the Committee can be reported to the Committee on Electricity and that there may have been other charges, such as the Environmental and Resource Commission and even the Minister. But if it is clear to a greater part of the employment committee that this lawsuit is active, should it not be put in the bill and not just in an explanation of the committee's opinion, and legally what value it holds, what position does it have in this matter? So should it not be followed all the way and make it understandable to the bill so that the organization and the great social institutions understand the bill correctly?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u108	A respectable president. These are very good questions. A senator is coming with us. Of course, it would be most desirable if we were to work in the proper order and in the context of parts so that they worked in a national structure, they worked by system programmes, they worked by a frame plan, and that it was in line with nature protection laws, men taking what goes into peace-light, and we would simply have a proper protection system, so that we would not have to let this party be identified by that side and the controversy he's thus doing. The work that was done on the part of most of it. The job committee is an image of the controversy that has been involved in these issues for decades. Sadly, this is where the distrust and suspicions of the controversy have developed, i.e. that they do not rely on others to come to work because they are on the other side of a conflict. Of course, we're supposed to take these things to an environmental assessment. We're supposed to have a principle of the environmental rights working in all of our work, i.e. that we let nature enjoy the doubt, that we are not ruining our country, that we make sure that we use the resources we have in a sustainable way so that we can return them to the next generation without being destroyed, without having been walked on them, so that our children have no less from moaning than we and most of them. That's how I can see it, but I don't feel it worked in that spirit here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. We're sitting on an environment and transport committee together, me and what. Senator. I'm really thinking about where we are in this case. It must be the principal goal of the council to do the material things as well as any possible, i.e. that the matter be improved during controversies, that it get firmer and better. For the treatment of Congress. However, at the time of the discussion, it is becoming more and more apparent that, first of all, the bill is gloomed, missing an important point of view, and second, more than a part of the employment committee has taken care of the situation for uncritical process. We on the Environment Committee took our role quite seriously; we viewed it as a real project to give information to the job committee. We set to frame matters that are specifically heard under the committee. And what is that? That's the environmental point, that's the planning plan, and that's the subject of the rural government level. We had visitors who had these subjects to do. I want to ask you why. Senator, man-whi. A senator after that any member of the Committee meeting to discuss these important issues; environmental, administrative and organizational matters, measured the bill, was satisfied with it and said: "Go on, it's just a really good bill, a good bill, a good job and should be given a rapid and safe payment through the Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u110	A respectable president. That's a good question because I don't remember anyone making this case. The best thing to say is to witness at the council's operations when cases are passed between committees, such as here, that we receive more material, more detailed and better opinion from a review committee than from the self-advised committee, with full respect for the monopolitans that came from a greater part of the employment committee in this case. It was then made up of both the majority and the smaller part of the Environment Committee, all of which were fundamentally agreed on in their work, on considerable research on this matter, and with a much greater appreciation than that of the Commission itself, which has the case under consideration. It only shows what kind of work is involved and how humans have decided to handle the matter, in reality, just as in an assembly, without any material reasoning, without answering the indications, or taking into consideration some of the many tips that were presented. For example, I asked him why. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson said today why the Union's proposal to make up the so-called Synod Committee has not been met. There is no material argument against it, nor is there any material evidence that the committee has suggested in these areas unless it was the conclusion that it was unnecessary. There was no reason for that. I think there's a real need for a tip, that it's an excellent way to create some kind of vents, some kind of partying so that you can settle differences. But no answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u111	A respectable president. The review of the European Commission's Commission shows that the bill has been neglected and that there is a greater need for careful explanations and more clear support for the proposals it offers and, in particular, for the impairment of the organizational authority of the community. I have to admit that with the work that the Environment Committee put into it and by listening to the discussion here and reading the findings of the Employment Road Committee, you are, in effect, in a complete mystery why in itself, humans do not even try to deal with that question: First of all, why is this matter presented in a way that it violates the organizational authority of society? Second, what recommends that a system plan, like any other scheme that has to do with land use and long - term provision, would go through an open, democratic process? All the legislation that we've been working on in the past few years, whether it's an HAB, a organizational law, a environmental assessment law, a code-based law, etc., is about increasing public access, increasing the democratic mandate behind decisions. But what do they do here? It's going the opposite way, and it's like the bill's written in 1975, it's like a sledgehammer. A pro board is only there in the Time Zone. I'm asking eight of them. A member of the body of elders is in direct opposition to the fact that this issue is in harmony with what is generally in law on the matter of order and provision of natural quality, environment, and land here at the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u112	A respectable president. No, there is no evidence that the matter is being worked in this way. This is certainly not for the better, and it is true. paritaprevir This is where Svavarsdóttir says, it's like it's from 1975. When she gave her speech earlier, I thought of a movie where some companions go to a hot tub in a skied paradise and spade 25 years back. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I wonder if the committee went into a hot tub together, and this happened, and they brought this bill out of their hot tub? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It really does not reach any point in this kind of work, but I do not talk that they do not try to answer the material criticism that has been presented. It is not very impressive for the committee not to comment here in the hall, not to resort to defence, not to participate in the reasoning taking place here, not to answer the questions that arise on the subject. This is very similar to the contribution made by the Committee of the Committee of the Committees presented here. There is no participation in conversation. This is not an attempt to complete the case on the basis of best available information or to reach as good a conclusion as possible. It's kind of decided in advance that this bill is great, that there's nothing to change it in any way and that it's just going to go through the way it is. Two minor changes in wording are made. No material changes are made on the bill, no comments are taken, no logical support is available to distribute so that you can discern the location of the committee. [[The president calls.]] She's in a lot of trouble here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u113	A respectable president. We continue a discussion on bill to correct the conversion of electricity laws, with subsequent changes. This discussion is becoming clear here at 2nd. The Senate. Then there are some key factors and some factors that are related to the individual aspects of the subject and the issues presented in the individual articles of the bill and the work modality of the sector. Perhaps first, because we are starting the second half, so to speak, at 2nd. The point, that no independent has spoken. It is of interest, and perhaps not least for the reason that two independents are warning others quite conclusively the comments of the majority of the environmental committees, which include the permission of presidents: ▪ In the opinion of the committee, there are the above points - all of which are quite few - ◯ This nature requires considerable change of the bill. It is not as if it was the project of the Environment Committee to provide these changes, but the nature of which they should be mentioned by the Committee. It would have been interesting to hear from the members of the Independence Party, those who have made notice of the matter in terms of the management of the Environment Committee. We in the majority of the Environment Committee have agreed with all the views reflected in the majority and then improved with several factors that have been torn and covered well by my partners in a smaller part of the Environment Committee, anyway. Councilmen of Katrín Júlíusdóttir and Róbert Marshall. So the first point at the discussion is the absence of the Independence Party and the general apathy of those who have or should follow the case for all the interest and fire. Second, I'd like to talk about something that generalizes the emphasis here and the treatment for one big deal after another. It's not like the situation here is that the performance is enormous from the table of this government, and we're above our heads in matters that come from it, that is, on the contrary. So you would have thought that when people arrived at the council, they could take the time to review and consider aspects of the subject. But here is another such matter, one more of the matters that are simply so neglected that the European Commission of Organizations claims it as being fully followed. I want to find out specifically, because there may be someone forgetting that the European Union is not in a government position at the council. Rather, it is a speaker who makes material comments to the bill that has come up to the development of the employment committee and makes serious comments that the committee suggests that the matter will simply be called back and done better. With reference to this, you will. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir suggested that the case be referred back, be referred to the government. In the discussion today, the suggestion has also increased, rather than taking the matter into the committee in a traditional way between the 2nd and 3rd. is it in such a material crisis that it is right that the committee takes it to heart even now, i.e. before 2nd. Ends, trying to get some kind of landing. Then I am not merely talking about the material cost of the case, some kind of political reconciliation about the outcome, but merely that it is not really a disgrace. It hurts when it comes from the Minister, as shown in the review of the European Union members and other comments presented here. As has been seen in the case of a large part of the waiver. Although many people were found to be involved in this exact aspect of the matter, it seems that the committee overlooked more and less all comments about the speakers or simply felt that the comments were not to be ignored. There is no consideration for a single comment. I have to say, more dignified President, that in view of the general understanding of the employment committee, you are wondering about the role of the narrative. Why does a Synod's committee file a case? What is the purpose of this? I thought we generals disputed that this was to gain a better understanding of the matter and to try to make peace, but it seems here that the matter is taken away without criticism and returned to the second. as if no reviews were read. In fact, as much a comment as comes from the European Union, the majority of the European Commission's wing is not covered. Thus, a bill missing in the opinion of the European Union's members goes through a greater part of the employment committee and is returned to the council, and here in the ninth hour, there is no representative of the members of the Congress and there is still no independent speaking in the case, even though they are warning of the Environment Committee. I think very much about the state of the Environment Committee in that subject and because it's not a single event. Let us not forget that when this government took over on spring days of 2013, it immediately stated that the Ministry of the Environment was the right thing to do. The minister who then joined the seminary spoke of a subjugated frame plan as if it could be taken away from time to time. Since then, we have been able to deal repeatedly with whether an environmental and transport committee would be worthy of a discussion. I had to say today that it was appropriate to reevaluate the name of the Committee and Transport Committee, since it has become a much more important function than someone else to be some professional narrative committee. But better that she would then be in the position of such a professional worker committee, i.e. that reading or applying the comments made by an environmental committee were available. But no, it didn't exist; neither did it come about to heed the comments of the Environment Committee, as did the rest of the national narratives. The review of both the greater and the smaller parts of the Environment Committee is primarily referred to the server and the guests, i.e. to those who are fully capable of expressing themselves on the content and format of the bill. A moral and clear approach based on what? It is based on the factors under environmental committees, environmental and natural processes, that are organizational, and that are the issues of the rural community. In fact, when you review this case, it is difficult to see that there is much else but exactly what falls on the work of the Environment and Transport Committee. We thought that it was our objective as the Syndicate, to contribute to the business committee. That's what we did, and the environmental Commission's comments went like the rest, into the shredr. What came from the relationship, what came from the Organization, what came from Land Protection, what came from sources, a plot in the corps, as well as what came from the Environment Commission. A respectable president. This is a very unusual situation, not only for the fact that here are two members of the Parliament dealing with the exact same issues and are completely settled in their approach to that subject, but for the fact that equipment is over the head of more things with the council case. Do we know? Is there a reason to finish the situation as it is? Not if more of the Environment Committee is involved in their comments. What's the attitude of the forward party? Is that why? paritaprevir And the speaker of the matter, the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, which takes place there? Or is it? paritaprevir and president of the Environment and Transport Committee, Höskuldur Thord the Þór of Þórhallsson? Or are they now hiring somewhere? It would be interesting to know if the coverage was realized. What is the position of independent members of the Environment Committee that signed in advance? What's going on in front of you? What is the position of the head of the professional trade committee to the moderate and balanced idea adopted here that the matter will be accepted into the Committee without the development of 2nd. is it done to try to avoid the shame it is taking care of what it looks like? What is the position of the leading committee on this matter? Or is it a subject of conversation to go to the same shreds as other reviews? What time are they up here? I was told earlier that it was as if the bill were written in 1975, the commission was written in 1975. I have to say, Mr. Honorable President, I feel that the politicians leading the case are moving in on their role models to 1975 in the way they practice their case. Or is this not the case? Is it not appropriate to wonder about the most serious comments made by the European Union on the development of rural society? Isn't there a time to react to it? Now, when we talk about the review of the Council's Environment and Transport Committee, which the Parliament itself decided on the matter, to ignore it in the same way as just listing a meeting, whether there were three or 14 or seven meetings, or what it was? What does it matter? Have we not come here to accept sound and upbuilding laws? Isn't that what we're going to do? Why don't we just do it like people? Aren't we going to do this in a way that's wrong? A respectable president. I have often felt that there was little future success in this government, but there are truly chapters in the account that will be reported about it in the full amount of time, i.e. that it is the government of out-of-work. This is one of the chapters here being written. As shown by the review of a majority of what? Environment Committee, what. Councilmen Höskuldur the son of Þórhallsson, Chairman Einarsson, both of the party brothers. foreman of the case, -- how's the advance team doing? - say, with President's permission: ▪ In the opinion of the Committee, the above points are that there is a significant change in the bill. The bill goes in reverse to legalization during the past few years in that consultation with the public and stakeholders has been added to the development of major public schemes and issues directly in agreement rather than to the one - sided decision - making process, as the bill seems to be based. The bill under consideration goes in reverse to all the development of environmental and organizational legislation in the past few years and decades. This case is a fossil. I have to say, I challenge it. It is more important to see that we listen now to the fine reasoning that has been offered and that we give this time to set things straight and to get things straight because there is no reason for this to be torn apart in a conflict. There is no reason for that, because here we are talking about legislation on the matter of working. We're talking about laws on engineering, processes, on developments, on transparency, on the fact that we're well pleased with the way things get started, and then on how they smell through democratic, open, and transparent processes. That's what we're doing. Or don't we, Mr. Honorable President? Is there anyone here who wants to step forward and say no? We want this to be a closed process. We want few of us to do so. We want it all fixed by Landsnet, Power Institute labeled it, and so the whole thing is dead. We want it that way because we think it's better. We don't think it's a good idea for democratic elected agents to come into the matter. We have reason to believe that the General is involved. We don't think the locals will be involved. We want to close this process. Isn't anyone going to say this, because that's what it is? That's exactly what it is. What is the goal of contingency? Is it not best for the church treatment to take the matter into account in order to improve the situation? The Environment and Transport Committee took the responsibility at least seriously to take the matter into account and to support the employment committee to improve the situation. We did it together. At the visits we received on the Environment and Transport Committee, one of the clients after another showed that the bill was too difficult for us to do. It seemed that certain procedures had been closed, that a matter of consultation had been closed too soon. For example, the European Union asked: What is a planning process if all of this is predetermined? What, then, is the process of consultation that we agree on here and unconventionally at the 2010 Parliament that is a organizational law that we would like to proceed with? It was parapolitic work. It wasn't simple. She was also in collaboration with the European Union. Some rural groups wanted to go much further, and the council sometimes wanted to go much further to put in order to make provision for national planning. But the conclusion was after a very long process. Such a process is precious. This bill violates current planning laws. So it's a lot under, and it's very dramatic if you think it's possible to dive through with an underdeveloped bill, which you're going to do with hand backworks that are presented here. How may we not be ready for this? I'd like to ask the members of the board to to swerve it, and especially from a professional committee. I can see why. paritaprevir Sæmundsson at the discussion. Why should a system plan be adopted in a town, and society should submit to it while a transport program is adopted at the General Assembly? Why? Why should this be done in this way if we want to strengthen the position of such programs and the democratic authority behind them? A respectable president. I believe this is one of the cases that are so neglected by the government, and unfortunately, they also laboriously worked through the majority of the employment committees, that we will not be able to avoid trying to do so here - and I beg men to think it in all sincerity - to take the case to the Committee before 2nd. Finally, a more reasonable conclusion and a better balance will be made in this important matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u114	Madam President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in the review of the European Union Society because, in many ways, the one that is very objective, says, by permission of the president: ▪ The association gives particular attention to the conclusion on page 9. c can become an example in similar matters, such as when deciding how to improve transport and communications workers. Lack of explanation, we agree on the opinions that are directed toward rural areas and their legal role in organizational matters is particularly negative. Furthermore, it says: The Community gives a reason for this, as well as the low impact of environmental issues in the bill, that the Council has a possible reason to call on the bill to work better before it is restored. In any case, if there is no reason to accept that indication, it will be absolutely certain that the matter will be carefully discussed at the General Assembly and will not be seen to the urgent need to end the matter permanently at the autumn Summit. It is a review that appeared before New Year's Eve, which leads to the fall council. You wonder what this situation is now, though it is certainly a reason to establish such laws as those on the road. What really causes it, which time line is in the process that makes such an overagement of the subject? In addition, it says on the basis of U.S. Company reviews by permission of presidents: ▪ An important factor in ensuring careful legislation on this important but as well as controversial matters is that the bill will be sent to the Commission of Transport and that the matter will be given the time needed to correct the limitations of the issues involved. I'd like to have a reaction. paritaprevir The Svandís of Svavarsdóttir on this tip of the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u115	A respectable president. This rhymes quite well with the comments we made on the environment and transport committee and on our reporting, i.e. to look at the viewpoints of the planning and the processes under which they live. I mentioned earlier in my speech, especially the comments of the European Union's partner and why. A senator here speaks of a structured organization that is a government agency that handles the organizational issues that may be the largest case under these circumstances. What Does Organization Say? She says that it needs to be done better and again that there will be work to be done so that a environmental and transport committee is involved in the case with reviews. So, first of all, it suggests that the matter will be won better before it is submitted to the council and to warn that the Environment and Transport Committee will get the matter informed and that they will likely be taken into account. And what happens? First, the matter is not won any better, it is not taken back and won better so that it will be of greater benefit, and secondly, it is requested for a virtual environmental commission that was never to take any notice of. I hope it's so that when we talk here with each other, you have a husband, that we all have a careful legal arrangement for a goal, but this is clearly not the way to such an objective. In this case, I feel that's absolutely unnecessary. It's established by the Institute of Organization, by the European Union and other agencies that we are not in a hurry to complete this. We can finish this at the spring convention if we have a chance to settle the matter together, a job committee and a transport committee, and bring in the views that are so valuable to balance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u116	A respectable president. It's drawing up a picture of a share of activity. Business committees who appear in this matter not only but also in their relationship with a frame plan that has been published for at least two days named Jón Gunnarsson's son's day and is referred to. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who has produced very unexpected suggestions for increasing the activation options in the new system. I simply wondered, " What type of work is being worked out in this way? ' What I can think of most of is Cato, not old Kató, but the one who frequently appeared in the movie about the Pink Panther and unexpectedly attacked Peter Sellers, somehow in the way of time. þm. Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional committee, has decided to behave in various matters, has always had some unexpected events, and allows everything to come to a stake. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u117	A respectable president. I'm not going to get caught up in reviewing what movie characters I can think of in this regard. Hv. A senator asks himself: " What kind of work is being done here? Unfortunately, this is not the case, as shown in the case of the senator, but it has become a rather persistent practice of more than half that. The job committee, especially the Chairman, with the riots around a frame plan and with the tactics presented here. I would like to ask, in general, who should be the role of the environment and transport committee as a client, e.g. working on natural passes Is the gator going on all the time? Is there a basis for listening to some viewpoints? I'm a very thoughtful, respectable president, in this respect, the position of the employment board taking place here, and whether there's a good way to work at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u118	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator has met together in the legal structure that included some way in which we were cutting down the community's own rights to where and how they can organize their environment. It was in the Law on a frame plan, except that's supposed to be four years ago, like here, but what's different is that it then assumes an additional ten years. A community may request an additional ten years to adapt to a frame plan and even three more. However, these are four years and no more. Other locations, e.g. In a transport program, there is still another system, etc. Mano. A senator after he has had such a big case in some part of law, because she's an old unit member of the country with experience from there, so hard is it in cutting down this self - determination right of a community? It seems to me that this is going pretty fast, and it's got a lot of pressure on humans. As shown in a conversation I was having with what I was talking about. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon will likely cause humans to experience a protective reaction from the start, i.e. to start taking advantage of all charges, any means possible to try to delay the process. So I wondered, " What is it? ' A senator can only think about it with me, whether it remembers something else, as well as what the consequences she thinks it will have.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I think there are absolutely some reasons why if we're talking about bad legislation from the beginning that there's a big disagreement, first of all, not a parapolitical stand about, and second, not a partnership with rural society or an organization, it's a complete recipe for a constant conflict. All routes will be used to file a case of complaint and confusion at all levels of the case. It is a very difficult time not to use it now to achieve a broader solidarity. It is wise now to use the time to achieve a broader solidarity on the subject to prevent this from becoming a recipe for the greatest land - war scene into the future. It's just so horriblely stupid. A respectable president. No, I don't remember anything like that. I just want to say that during the last term, which was not necessarily days of wine and sugar, the laws on a frame plan adopted at the 2011 Parliament were adopted without rules of law, as well as the poorness of the planning. It was not only in agreement at the council but also in the presence of the rural communities in what the decline would be and which means the rural communities would then have to support themselves from that conclusion. Why? Because we felt that laws were important to us. This is the kind of prejudicial way of drawing out a conflict road. They're making a raid road. They're drawing up a war with wicked legislation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u120	A respectable president. I just agree with what. Senator, this is not acceptable, and it is so predictable. We have blurred laws. It is unconcerned as to the exact cause of complaint. We also have strong comments that are made that men don't even try to answer, so I agree with them. A senator in that this is a recipe for intense warfare and unnecessary warfare, a man might do it differently. Hv. A senator mentions a frame plan. This is shown in 3 mg. 2.g. that the design of a system plan should be based on practical scenarios for the development of electricity production, and in the report on the article on the subject that such programmes could be proposed for development, including Based on activation options in the accession and waiting category of the protection and energy efficiency programmes. How practical is a plan? A senator that can be based on a waiting class of frameworks for protection and use? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u121	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this. As indicated by the review of my period. The Environment Committee we believe is that the source of this report is absolutely unacceptable that the waiting party is over its heads for planning. The waiting party is not a waiting party for the energy union. It's a waiting party for both the energy response party and the protection party. He's not even considered at that point. He is a waiting party and a waiting party shall be called as long as data are not available to determine whether the benefits should be of a energy response class or a protection class. For building on practical scenarios, I believe that sometime when we are young, there is a time when we are going through the motion picture. A senator sits in good government in time, and we need to take energy policies in the council and put aside a plan to see if we need energy, how much and in what context. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u122	A respectable president. As a rookie at the council, I feel a little groovy when I look at the 5th in a paper with this bill on the subject of consultation. It says that when the bill was prepared, it had a consultation with the Power Institute, Landsnet Corp. and the Union of Icelandic rural society. I'd like to ask if it's normal. Is that how people work at a council? Are these all those who have an interest in this matter? I think of the United Nations Children's Covenant, which we are in. It always says that we should put on glasses and think about our children and the future when we're making bills and making adjustments. I can't see that any man had any glasses on that bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u123	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. It is correct, and it was also shown in the reviews as well as by visitors at the Committee meetings, even saying that this bill was likely written primarily by the Landsnet and would have been given a relatively quick access through the Ministry to someone else's home with some discovery. Although the European Union is indeed listed as a consultation partner, it is not that it was acceptable to its conclusions. The relationship's review shows that it is inadequate for the bill. This has not been a way of agreeing with the relationship. I agree with it. A senator says and what glasses we should wear when talking about the long - term energy transport system for the country. Of course, our primary objective is to have our glasses to walk with reference to the quality of Icelandic nature. It is the value given to us, not by our ancestors, but, in reality, to care properly for future generations. They certainly have no noses there when talking about the heart in the ideologies of sustainable development, i.e. We are not to make major decisions unless these are not for future generations. Hv. A senator spoke of the child who should be at the table, or wear the baby's glasses, and maybe it's the most challenging thing for all of us who are here and us who are responsible to make sure that one place at the table is always the seat of future generations, that we have an imaginary speaker of future generations at the table and try to be himself. [[It's a great idea.]] Clearly, that Spokesman has not been there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u124	A respectable president. It has been very interesting to listen to a discussion here today. I have to say, since I don't have time to sit. Work committee or what. The Environment and Transport Committee, that I think the discussion has been very effective. I think it's completely set up, after I've listened to the discussion, that this case is not finished. That's perfectly clear to me, after listening to the discussion and reviewing the committee's opinion more and less a bit or so. The job committee, that this case needs much more than that. The first thing I'd like to say is Aldulis's work practices. It's not like it's the first time it ever happened, but now I think it's totally time they're going to work. The case is referred to a review of why. Environment and Transport Committee. This is not the first case referred to as the review of this committee, but this is sometimes done when cases overlap, as there have been a wide range of references. This issue clearly overlaps between the committees, and that is true of other issues. As an example, we can refer to a structure that has been discussed here and a number of other issues in which more than one committee might be involved. We can recall the natural pass, which the other day was debated about which committee to go - could have been at home. Work committee, huh? Environmental and transport committees and what. A financial and business committee - and decided to request references. They are treated with reviews from the Generals, such as envelopes from outside sources, so that they do not get the weight they deserve. They're not distributed with Congress papers. I'd like to welcome you to the less part of the employment committee, huh? paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, scattered with her committee's review of a larger and smaller section of a history. Environment and Transport Committee. Of course. However, more than a part of the job committee - with its only - leafed - so - called whale. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall earlier - does not see reason for distributing that statement in her opinion, which is specifically requested and called upon. A respectable president. This is not just a matter for the president's committee to consider. No case can be referred to the comments made by members of the Parliament in order to suggest them and hope to hear no more from them. What beats me as a general member of this hall is then reading this odd opinion of more than a part of the employment committee, where most of it is listed as guests and told that something is said in the bill. There is no review of the 200 pages. From the reviews we received. I didn't like it, with respect to the paper, to print them all out, but I do have some upstairs. It's very interesting to review these reviews, and I intend to use all my short time here to review the highlights of those reviews. I am disappointed that I did not see such comments under the review of a large part of the employment committee, nothing. Then comes the review of the memory of the section and the review of the environment and transport committee, and it begins to review some of the points presented in the report on the matter. I must be quick to comment on these tactics. Totally independent of the case and its subject, it's not an acceptable method, it's not okay, and it just needs to go over. Then comes the matter itself and the comments I have taken advantage of to cover over. There are two red strands that I feel I distinguish in all of them, and then there are many other things that come up here and there. It is also the review of the European Union's member countries and then the reviews of a number of individual communities that are criticized for how they operate on the organizational authority of rural society. It is worth considering that more of the Generals feel that there is a reason for going directly to the authority that is emphasized in both the local administration laws and the Constitution, the independence of their communities. Then you ask yourself: " What issue is so important that it is reasonable to follow this way to the organizational authority of your community? It doesn't seem to me that I consider the greater part - although there is a change in the motion, it is not really enough to meet the comments presented here. The red thread that I feel is a lack of environmental issues in the bill, and I want to make it a subject. That is a thought - provoking point. When we look back and look at the history of nature and environmental issues in Iceland, it has not been about much of this, energy production, how we produce energy, how we deliver it and what to do with it. In the light of history, it is absolutely strange that we have reached 2015, and here we have a system and environmental protection bill not being made higher than it really is. It is almost as if people prefer to ignore the fact that all the major issues in nature over the last few decades have been about this precisely. There's nothing to learn from that story, it seems to be, it's just not to be taken into account. I find this to be a thought - provoking thought, for there will be talk of peace here. Hv. The head of the professional road committee said that during the days there was no way to bring up a new fishing bill because they wanted to make peace. All right. How are we to believe that when these views are completely ignored and more things go wrong? Work committees will do nothing to meet those views? I don't think this to be a sign of thinking that's all too common, and also showed in the matter of a synonym that activation is a waiting option to be taken into the colony in a so-called framework plan - when we agreed on what the committee of the proposal would reveal to be the strange diatheism that it should be used in a job committee but a protection on a environmental and transport committee. Still, I haven't got answers to how exactly you can divide a frame plan this way, a frame plan that is an attempt to see a complete energy efficiency of hydropowers and earthvars and protection, looking overall at the seminar. How could such a separation be possible? I think this case, in which the environmental principles, nature protection, are out of the question, once again testifying to the double-mindedness, that the practical use of i.e. On the one hand, activation and the transport of electrical energy without taking into account environmental considerations. It shows that certain things, though not all, are what they are. Congress has simply not developed the view that we must look at these issues in context, which is still the basis for the law on a framework that was accepted here legally in 2011. Maybe they didn't realize what they were going to do. However, the Environmental and Transport Committee appears to recognize these views, at least a lower part of it, as the memory part shows that there is a great lack of environmental considerations in the existing bill. System schemes should be based on practical scenarios for the development of electricity production, electricity use, market development and electricity transport to other countries. In view of the memory of the part, the report on the bill shows that activation options are meant, not just to a starting point - we do know that the activation of a innovation class does not necessarily result in a decision to activate, but to a waiting class as well. Why do we have a waiting factor? That is because we have not even decided what to do with it. This is because there is not enough data to be considered. Nevertheless, they are swept along here in the colony when plans are to be made over a long period of time. It can't - and I agree with a smaller part of the environment and transport committee - it's considered logical to build on these points in a practical program. The environmental concerns were also lacking in a line discussion and the environmental impacts it may have. I think it's important, because, as I said at the outset, it's certainly just part of a series of substantiated views that come from the studies -- as I said at the outset, I think it's a good idea that it's a role anyway. The environment and transport committees are doing that work. But it is stated in detailed reviews by the Land Guard, apart from the fact that priming ideas in the neo-and waiting category should be used as core users for the programmes and implementations of the electrical transport systems - this is not consistent with the laws on the framework, and I wonder if it has been taken into consideration exactly how this element corresponds to the current law. I can't see that the work has been done to examine the exact correlation between these two layers. The review also points out, which I find interesting - the plan is, of course, that a simple licence is being made, but at the same time, the decision and planning authority of rural society is reduced, as I pointed out earlier - that Power Institute will be entrusted with a surveillance that the Agency cannot provide for the current legal environment. There are many more comments on the 200 pages. From the reviews received through the bill. How is Ennis to be monitored according to the information presented here? The Directive on which the bill is based, the European Commission Directive, requires an independent member of the organisation to all other public and private authorities. This is not the case with the Power Institute that is directly under the Minister of Energy. And as the Power Institute law now shows, its main role is research and advice on natural resources. How exactly are we going to hide this surveillance role from the Power Institute? This needs a much closer look, a respectable president. A review of the Land Guard also states, of course, that no longer require a special license for individual operations on the electrical transport system. Then we'll come back to the environment. When a specific license is no longer required for implementation, it is expected that all these views will be based on the basis of how this bill is built up, the environmental considerations are not to be taken into consideration. So this is all about the same well, no matter how we read the bill, except that the Landsnet as a transport company is given some sort of self-inflicted but should be heard under the supervision of the Power Institute that I have already noted is not necessarily a suitable party from what is required in the directive. So this review highlights a number of factors that require more careful consideration. Furthermore, it is stated that this is merely the introduction of certain articles of the European Commission, in fact, in the past - as I understand the matter - but is required to introduce it, but the importance of it has been left behind. It is also sobering to consider the European Union's directives - we have talked about them in this room in the way they are introduced - whether it is necessarily the right way to take a certain part first and leave one of them behind. I think that in these matters it is important -- let's recall when the power directive was introduced at its time, and it was found that Iceland could have applied for a release from the directive, which went into the market of the electricity market. It wasn't done. However, several members of that convention later agreed that they had taken a closer look at the matter and stopped it while it was being discussed at the council. Sadly, though, instead of being guided by fate, he was a mighty man, and I fear that men will strive to guide them here rather than here. So here are some comments, and I especially want to come to the last section of the Environmental Protection Programme. According to current legislation, the Power Institute is expected to bind permission for electricity transport conditions to the elements described in 1 mg. Count 9. The law, as well as the conditions for environmental and land use. This acronym has been taken out for some reason, it is almost being taken out of the existing environmental principles of the law. An caption to the bill says that it is not the role of the Energy Agency to take sides on environmental impacts by action or to set conditions where this is in the hands of other governments. But it does not work out, in the opinion of the Land Protection Agency, that the Power Agency does not have to look to the environment or nature protection grounds for confirmation of a strategy. It must be the obligation of both the transport company and the monitoring body, which is then the Power Institute, to take a decision and to take a special note of environmental factors. Electric law is directly based on European legislation on the field of electricity, which has an environmental protection. It is the so - called electronic directives of the European Union. So I don't see any answers in this article to comments that there is a direct setback, leaving the Power Institute from taking sides on environmental issues. Again we come to what I mentioned earlier: This is a bill of electrical energy, a subject that has caused the most controversy in the history of the Icelandic environment, and it is directly reduced the role of the Power Institute. It's an enormous environment, and it's hardly relevant to the bill. There has been a review of the lack of demand for environmental impact in the transport system or the conditions involved. And it is true, too, that such an addition to a report does not change the law, nor does it have the same legal influence as the text in the law itself. All of this makes me feel extremely important. I also mention that Land Protection points to the need to ensure legalization that prior to the introduction of electrical lines into rural society, environmental impact has been assessed because public access has been made to the case while all options are open. It is unnatural that rural society repeatedly adopts transport companies' requests for an orderly electrical line before evaluating the environmental impact of implementation. Such assessments should be just one of the main factors in rural planning and should weigh as seriously the decision whether or not the type of electrical lines, such as air lines or land cables, should be taken onto an organization. In the bill it is assumed that regardless of environmental considerations, local societies should adopt the strategy that the Landsnet operates at a time and without the actual access of the public or other stakeholders at an early stage. Then I shall come to it, because the time is running away from me, which is mentioned in the table of my committees. It notes that a strategy is not expected to be discussed at the General Assembly, such as developing a transport strategy, as to form a strategy for protection and use of land, called a daily framework. Of course, this discussion will be minimized, as public opinion is discovered. I think it's very strange that it hasn't been recorded out of part of it either. Work committee, to ensure that a system plan will be discussed here at the General Assembly, like any other Parliamentary resolution on such plans. I'm kind of completely incomprehensible why they don't record it in this way. Therefore, in the last seconds here, I cannot help but agree with the proposed views of the subject, that the case will be referred to the government, working in a more precise way, taking into account the views of the people here, that the environmental and natural protection issues in such a vast environmental environment as these are, will be met with the comments made by rural communities, both their organizations and their individual communities, will not be able to go past, and will seek out as far as far as to settle the matter. [[The president calls.]] To be honest, this proposal for my part, a respectable president, is the only sensible one in this position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u125	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. At the beginning of his speech, there went a why. A senator with regard to work, among other things, said that more things were bad. The employment committee would not have made any material changes on the bill, nor would they be able to match the explicit comments given to the committee. But it's not like that, a respectable president, only having a good time. The job committee did not take into account information that came from a town, so to speak, but the committee did not wait for a hearsay. The environment and transport committee, but the review of which most of the committee was sent, says: ▪ In the opinion of the Committee, the above points are that there is a significant change in the bill. The bill goes in reverse to legalization during the past few years in that consultation with the public and stakeholders has been added to the development of major public schemes and issues directly in agreement rather than to the one - sided decision - making process, as the bill seems to be based. So, more than a part of the employment committee opposes the opinions of their fellow members, the members of the board. You must wonder, " What will be the result of the bill in a vote? ' When I'm at the highest. The minister spoke for the bill, and she spoke of a great willingness to agree. I want to ask you why. A senator how it feels that the end of the bill will be and how to improve and meet the will of reconciliation. Minister? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u126	A respectable president. You could say that the review of more than a half a head. Of course, the environment and transport committees are apologetic of both practices. A professional body and bill at the highest. Minister. Like what? A senator said it's a big word that I know to say in a review: To the extent that consultation with the public and stakeholders has been added to the major public programmes and issues, rather than to one - sided decision - making, as the bill seems to be based. I am not surprised, though, that the administrative sector does not agree on anything, for it rarely agrees with itself, whether on business, environment, or other matters, so I am not surprised at how little peace there seems to be in this greater extent. But what surprises me is that I listened. paritaprevir Höskuldur Þórhallsson's son has these matters discussed earlier today, but we haven't heard them yet. The members of the Independence Party who sign the committee's opinion in advance and exactly what their position is. For a word at the highest. A minister she had here at the beginning I remember it well that she wanted to look for a broad agreement on the matter. She's forgotten to give them a message. Business committee, but I know she's listening to the discussion. She's been paying close attention today, I know. If I were her, I would take the matter into consideration again, so that it will not go through the way we see it now, she just take it back into her own hands and work it so that it can be achieved as a broader agreement, because very large words are put in the direction of the environment and transport authorities. And I wondered, " Why did the majority of the employment committees not choose to distribute that statement in their opinion? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u127	A respectable president. The administrative part must be concerned about the way the vote on the bill is used here with the explicit comments made by the rulers presented in the majority wing. Environment and Transport Committee. Hv. A candidate spoke in his talk about the frame plan and the defects involved in building a frame plan to make plans for electricity transport systems. I want to agree with that with what. A senator because a frame plan is not predicting activations, as shown in the debates today, but it is something else in which it controls whether to be activated, there is a demand for electricity, there is financial sensitivity of activations and environmental impacts, and so on. There are other factors than a frame plan. Therefore, a frame plan is not a foundation for such a plan for long - term construction. I want to ask you why. Because it is extremely important to make good plans, what else could be used as a more solid foundation for a transport system implementation program, any basis for non-programming?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u128	A respectable president. My review of the fact that it seems to be here to use a frame plan that some predictor of future development is particularly about the fact that I think it is a complete misunderstanding of a frame plan and how we build it up. There they are straddling options and comparing them. I quoted earlier in my review part of the Environment and Transport Committee on this. This is also reflected in the opinion of the greater part, as they point out that it is considered reasonable to base on those points in a practical program. What other factors can be based on? Of course, it is possible to determine the benefits of a new category, the activities of the table, and so on. First and foremost, I believe that if we are going to make a realistic system plan, she needs this democratic discussion. I think it's just a perfectly necessary thing to do. True, we have to use many factors to make such a plan, but just as a transport plan changes in the council because there are reviews, and because the council is all about the plan and different viewpoints are different, I think that exactly the same viewpoint applies here. In this regard, I think that if we're going to do a strategy that would settle for them, it would be the most practical methodology to build on a democratic practice. It's not the spirit of this bill. However, it is simple to make changes in that direction on the bill so that the General involved, the establishment of the public, and other variables are taken into account in such a strategy. On the other hand, I do not pretend to have accurate answers to the way work should be done. On the other hand, I want to listen when such serious comments are made as they have been made in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u129	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a fine talk, asking about the subject, as stated in the review of the Organization's Management Board on this subject, which suggests that there are many aspects of the strategy on the nature and content of the policy and the nature of the policy. A senator came into it only in his speech, i.e. This is a national program relating to the basic systems of linear infrastructure. " By permission of the president, " says the agency's review: There is a difference between the implementation of a transport programme as a General Assembly resolution, but according to the bill, a system plan will be implemented by a administrative agency without the presence of elected representatives. This may raise questions about how normal it is to make rural administration an undisputed obligation to adopt the tasks specified in the scheme of things, i.e. to ask questions about democratic authority and responsibility for decisions about rights and actions. Is this not a rather serious comment to the legislation on the basis of the Organization? I'd like to ask you what. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u130	A respectable president. I have to say, of course, it's interesting that here makes public organization, a very serious observation to the bill as a matter of course. A senator went over, i.e. the question is that the system plan will be over without the presence of elected representatives - who are to represent the public in the country, right? - but at the same time, if local governments, including representatives are elected by their people, are obliged to adopt the tasks outlined in the system schedule. As I only came to this moment, it seems quite remarkable to me that in view of the fact that we have been working on it in this community, as I thought, to increase democracy, to confirm the Asse Treaty, and to perform various experiments in a democracy so that the public will be able to gain greater access to decisions concerning him, whether it is done by allowing the public to make various decisions before they are taken or by votes afterwards. But in this bill, it points to a public institution, a Organization, trying to reduce the democratic approach. Because I've mentioned a road program before, which I've only met, I've seen that it often changes to a Senate hall. Other perspectives occur when the Environmental and Transport Committee reviews matters both with stakeholders, with people from the scattered countries and rural governments all over the country, and to their viewpoints it is important to consider. So I have to say, I think it's a positive thing that the Organization raises this question, but it's not a good thing not to be handled for 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u131	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. That is a very important point and a serious comment made by the Organization. There's another thing, another goal of the law that I'm doing a little bit of a poaching around here, i.e. The so-called Regulation authority included in the bill, which allows the minister to set up a regulation that covers the framework of the transport company, information that should be part of a system plan or follow it closely. I think it's quite a warrant a minister is given. It says, by permission of the president: The secretary is allowed to set up a directive that covers the transport company's system programme, information to be part of a system plan or to follow up with it, how to conduct a consultation procedure in its preparation, implementation and follow-up, including what resources the Energy Agency has to ensure that a system strategy is followed, how to determine options and the basis and methodology should be used. I would now think it was such an important point here that it should be on a staff of elected agents to establish legislation on how the process of consultation is being conducted, how option analysis is carried out, and what basis and methodology should be used. Because of what? A senator is now a former minister of Iceland's government, I ask: Is it not quite a vast warrant given to a minister there to fill in the gaps? Would it not be natural for the first law to write down exactly how this should be done and, in turn, to get these plans on their own in order to cover them? There I feel that a professional car board is throwing a lot of work at me and leaving behind a very wide range of opportunities for a minister to enforce his own ideas on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u132	A respectable president. This is another side of the same coin. Of course, it's the way we write and how we bring up the law here. There's a huge issue underneath here, a plan for many years, and the question is, How do we want to plan it? I've been discussing here that I feel that there is a complete lack of a democratic approach that could be guaranteed by the council coverage. In this matter, it's odd, and I agree with it by reason. A senator, having a regulations authority which is really completely open on how to agree, how exactly analysis options should be performed. As I've reiterated many times, I don't feel enough to understand how delicate a matter we have in our hands, a case that is likely to cause further disagreements. If we just look at the history and the great issues here on environmental and natural protection, it should be the will of the government to pave the process around such matters on stone as possible, so that when it comes to handling such matters, there are no doubt about how to proceed. Then it is my general food, and there is just a different view, that in many cases, especially in so much controversial matters, it is better to have the law text longer and more detailed and fewer regulations. Another may be the case in smaller areas on which further agreement is made, where regulations can be made for implementation. In this case, however, we need to realize that we hold a delicate matter that is likely to cause controversy far into the future. Because children's glasses were discussed back then, we also need to ask ourselves, " How will this type of work affect my future? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u133	A respectable president. Interestingly, this is the subject of a case that is lacking in the opinion of a big and important speaker. The discussion has shown that much of the employment committee has virtually no material discussion, and we are here to discuss a matter that is upset when it enters the council, when it arrives. Um, and I'm asking, a respectable president, where's the more part of the job committee? Here's why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, but where are other agents in the greater part of the industry? Where is it? Chairman of the Committee, Jón Gunnarsson? Because it has been reviewed earlier in the discussion, I also ask: " Where is the minister of the organizational matters, the highest. Minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir? Is she informed that this is a decommissioned planning program? Where's the Secretary of Company Affairs, chief? Minister of Ólöf Nordal, whose case group is upset, too, because our rural communities are abjected here? Has it been checked?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u134	A respectable president. In the discussion of what kind of scandal is involved in this case, it has been possible to draw up a picture and to see how slightly more part of the employment committee has been prepared for this discussion at the council. It is hard to believe that this is a debate on the part of the council without the presence of those responsible for this matter without rational support, as it has been pointed out in a review process that needs to be corrected one thing after another in this matter. It is drawn up, examined in view of the majority opinion of the Committee, and it is not easy to find why people choose to take the way they are going, no logical support, and no advocates here at the council outside the water. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, as nice as he is, to give reasons for this presentation. [[The president calls.]] There's no one on the side of the government. This discussion cannot be taken up in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u135	Madam President. As Mrs. President has observed in the recent discussions, local authorities have brought up the reports, the Land Protection, the Organization, and a greater part of it. The Environment and Transport Committee to name something and everywhere this bill is said to be underestimated, needs to be done better. It may not be surprising if there were some sources in town if there were not also members of the government. Directors give me a very clear message in a committee study that the case is understatement, and I challenge the highest level. President calling out to himself what? The officers of the night. The job committee and the participation of the case will now be included in the committee for further work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u136	A respectable president. However, would it not be that the greater part was running away from this matter as well as others? One down. A member of the major part of the pro board, huh? paritaprevir Sæmundsson, this is where the Watch stands, but we can't see the rest. We can't see what's going on. Senator Ármannsson, son of the Year, and Vilhjálmur of Árnason, who signed the committee's opinion of more of the environment and transport committee on alert. Where is it? paritaprevir HaraldurEinarsson who sign the committee's opinion and in no advance? I honestly thought when I came to work this morning that this discussion was not going to last so long, but it has revealed that the situation is neglected and that the situation seems to me to be the case. The members of the board are on the run from their own resources, unable to come up here and answer the excellent comments as well. Senators have done. They are certainly not answered in committees more than a part of the employment committee, so I am no more than that this is a time of breakdown. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u137	A respectable president. I don't think it's necessarily the smile of a fly, I just don't think people really care. We will see in the handling of the reviews made available to the committee. They are not listening to one of them, a tiny remark taken to justify some sort of assessment of this matter, and now they don't even have to sit here and listen to what is said. As a member of the Committee on Environment and Transport, of course, I think very much about how our colleagues treat the narrative they ask us to do. A professional health - care committee wants us to work for a review. It comes out, and humans do not do so little to try to answer us. There are very serious comments, cross-politic. It has nothing bad left to do but to sign the terms of independence and forwardees, and there is little effort on the part of those who try to answer them. In this regard, the council has to be seriously resolved, and it is necessary to deal with committee committees and committees and committees. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u138	Madam President. It seems to me that there is a full reason to agree with the Commission's opinion that the matter is neglected and therefore should be referred back to the government to further accomplish this, based on the serious comments made in the reviews to form the Organization and Company Association, Land Protection, and other targeted members. I think it's very strange that you don't try to put anything good into it. Thus, the majority of the employment committee, with the exception of the Commission executive, are not interested in or mixed up in the discussion here to support their viewpoints, why the majority of the employment committees feel no reason to meet the serious comments they have come up with. It is not good to know when people have no mind to make matters right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u139	A respectable president. I have to agree with my associates who have discussed this matter and who have neglected it. Now that I've been sitting here more and less all day, watching the discussion and listening, I've become much more informed than I was. In view of what was presented in the case of a minister, I wondered: " What does this government mean when she says she wants to make peace when she says she wants a deal? Is it true that one member of the board sits in the hall and participates in a discussion or that he is considering taking the matter into consideration now for further work because that is the only logical thing to do? As I said, I have listened to the comments that have been tore up today, since the smaller part is principally considering the institutions'opinion of what is being tried to push through. A respectable president. The majority of the people must have been talking to me about taking this into a job committee right away but not leaving the discussion until tomorrow. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u140	Madam President. I have to agree with this. I don't think there's any other way but to stop in this matter and discuss how best to handle the situation. This afternoon's discussion has made it clear that it is impossible for the Council to continue this way. We can't make this work this way, that members of the Parliament who are assigned to give a second committee opinion, even in a field that is largely subject to it, as with environmental and transport committees, are ignored. There has been one non - manager here who spoke to most of the professional committees today, if I have noticed correctly. Who is it? It's the head of the Environment and Transport Committee. He did not draw a single point of what is stated in the review of most parts, and in fact, in both the majority and the lesser parts of the committee, he stood by it all and reasoned on it in a talk chair. There is no resemblance to making it work like this before the council. As it happens, this is a meeting in the audience, and everything we say is taken down, and the papers are public. What will this payment look like? That's why I think it should be stopped and the most scary option for the committee is to take the case back immediately. In addition, I remind you that there has been a request for the presence of a minister who might be answered, Supreme Minister. Environment Minister and Minister of State.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u141	A respectable president. We are there in this discussion that we need to take a break. The discussion is so that it can be continued only by pause and see where it really is. The picture has attracted to the fact that there is no one who follows the case but what. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's stone. There is a precipitous issue, rural society says it as well as a planning agency. The minister of organizational matters has not attended the discussion, the minister of local government has not, nor have the director of the employment committee, nor have they participated in the discussion. There is no choice but to interrupt the discussion now and to be hired, and the matter will be taken back to the minister or to the Commission for continued development in an effort to try to get some normal tool on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u142	A respectable president. I agree with them. Councilmen here have spoken. This discussion is not going to be over this evening. I think it's true that most likely to shorten the discussion and make it easier for the council to take the matter into consideration in the intervening period and to review it at the Committee how it can be better handled in the conference room than it has been. The members of Congress have discussed how shocking it is if the committee's committees fail to respect one another. Since we expect others to respect the committee of the Generals, we must do so ourselves. Therefore, there is no doubt about paying off the Commission's opinion without caring for or missing the opinion of the environment and transportation committee at the council on the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u143	Madam President. This discussion has been followed by a talk. paritaprevir Fears of Þórhallsson, chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee. He revealed that it would be his view that for the bill to be discussed here, some changes would be needed. In answer to me, he explained two changes that must be considered major, which he considered the basis for accepting the bill, on the one hand, that a system plan would be submitted to the council like a transport program and, on the other hand, that there were clear charges in the bill. Since then, it has been stated in the discussion that the opinion of more part of the environment and transport committee did not enter the council until the day after most of the employment committee had formally completed its views. Then I think it is absolutely clear that the employment committee needs to be put out of business to review this and try to make peace with an environmental and transport committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u144	A respectable president. As with others here, I suggest that there be a recession at this meeting, a job committee called together early in the morning, and a review of the situation. When I'm at the highest. This bill was presented by a minister who spoke of the need to be happy here, and she thought it necessary because of the growth of the situation and the degree of contact involved. It is clear from the above discussions, from the Commission's list of aspects of the environment and transport board and from the current discussions that it is not acceptable. There's a lot of problems, it needs to be done better, and I'm asking the President to make sure these things work out so that we can settle down.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u145	A respectable president. There's a suggestion to interrupt 2nd. and to what? The job committee takes the matter back into consideration, taking into consideration the facts. The Environment and Transport Committee, which was part of the discussion at the outset that the case would be referred to the review of this committee. It is completely ignored by the committee's list of parts, so it is quite clear that the Council is not ready for 2nd. in this matter. Let us realize that we are still in February, and it is not as if we want to finish this case before spring. Of course, it is normal for us to interrupt. Uh-oh. The job committee takes matters back into place, and then we can continue the discussion as soon as the discussion is covered. Environmental and Transport Committees have responded to the tremendously significant criticism points set out here for the introduction of public, the introduction of Generalis, rural planning and environmental impacts. [[The president calls.]] Earlier, this matter is not ready to be settled from the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u146	Madam President. The assessment of the environment and transport committee, or the assessment of both the majority and the majority of the committee, which, in fact, are largely consistent in their criticism of the matter, is not mentioned in the Committee to cover a greater part of the work programme. There must be a little news. They want the opinion of another member of the council, but they are not waiting for it to come and it can be said. It's not a single item, it's not mentioned, it's not displayed as a package. If it weren't for a smaller part of the pro board, then what? paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir, if it were known to us other senators. That's the way it is. It tells itself that it's not working. It is not possible to work this way between committees and financial committees in a way that is acceptable, as it is called. There have been very convincing wishes that this will be held in a discussion on the subject, leaving plenty of other interactive issues on the program to discuss this evening, such as the suggestion on the ice calendar. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u147	A respectable president. I think it's all the most awkward thing for the council to do, that we have a committee that wants another committee to give a review, and then there's no review, and there's nothing to do with it. As we have seen in the discussion, people have not even read it. It hurts. It's embarrassing, it's uncomfortable, it doesn't show good work. I believe that in view of this, we are now going to put a point behind this discussion tonight and take on other more important matters as we try to settle how we are going to proceed with this and what professional driving committees are going to do with the environmental and transport authorities. These are important issues, such as people colleges and unfounded basics, and I think we'd better discuss it in our time than what's going on here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u148	A respectable president. I've got to start by saying, "What?" paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, it is a sin to let this argress get in the way of a discussion about the ice age later on on at the meeting. But because the president has failed to respond to the protests of Congress, I direct my words to the point. Foreman of the case, Mr. Grafstein's Sæmundsson, Sólmund. It is reported that a panel of members of the Commission and also members of a panel called the head of the Congregation for the Environment and Transport Committee, Þór Þórhallsson, was not able to express their views that, prior to the release of the matter, the member of the Parliament was assigned to a panel of members of the Parliament for the environment, the two major changes in the matter have been considered necessary. [[The president calls.]] Once this has happened to 2nd. The case of the speaker is to take the initiative in asking for a break in the discussion and to consider the matter better before they approach fellow party members in the hall for their views.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u149	Madam President. I think many of us are memorable words of the highest character. A professional minister when she put it that way when she recommended the bill we're discussing here that this case should not be covered through the council, it should be done well, and reached a good conclusion. Haven't we come to that place yet, chief? A president and a what? An executive, that we are flogging the matter through the council against the important reviews of a large number of parties? With senators and wοuldn't. In the United States alone, professionals called the European Union just before this meeting, highlighting its proposal for reconciliation that has been introduced in the Ministry and also at the Landsnet. Are we not going to listen to this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u150	A respectable president. Of course, I wondered today, in view of the discussion that has been conducted here, any comments that have been made may be made that the majority of the employment committees simply do not agree. Is it your goal to have a problem? Then I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Sourstein Sæmundsson's attitude of taking the case into his head right now and convening the job committee in the morning. Does he feel that there is something he says against it? Does he feel that it is beneficial to continue the discussion tonight and tomorrow? Now I'll see what it is. The head of the professional road committee is now in the hall. It would also be nice to hear his attitude, he has not been at all present, at least not at the Hall of Congress, so it would be interesting to know if they consider the matter to be in progress to continue in the night and tomorrow or to take it into the committee in the morning and to stop the discussion now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u151	V.E.G. President. This discussion has been very well today, and I see no reason to cancel it. I think it's fine to keep her out of the water. This case will go to the 3rd. so I don't see any part of it that we're going to continue to collect the notes as easily as possible. The members of Parliament have the issue and the outworking of it, so I propose to the highest degree. Mr President, we will continue our discussion and take it as far as she can. As I say, to get more out of a lot of excellent remarks that have been made. Then we will see what will be the outcome when the issue begins between the 2nd and 3rd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u152	A respectable president. The job committee discussed this matter extensively. I think there are 18 committee meetings that are booked on that subject, we covered it immediately before Christmas, and took an extra meeting on Christmas vacation to discuss it specifically. We've done a lot of work. We visited Landsnet very specifically and got introductions there. We have repeatedly received party members at the Committee, we have brought different viewpoints to the committee meetings where we have received contrasted poles to discuss with us, and the conclusion is that after this much and a careful discussion has been made. The employment committee just became very much at the Commission's disposal. All agents were involved except for a representative of the left green which, in fact, didn't want to be on a committee party when we finished it. She wanted to settle the matter only in the council before it was resolved. For what? The Environment Committee has been discussing the matter at two meetings, I was told today, booked, perhaps there are others, but it is quite clear that there was nothing intelligent about it until now in January, and we just can't do that even though the committee has not won the case. [[No.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] There was quite a wide agreement on a professional committee, and I see no reason for this discussion to continue the rest of the evening and longer if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u153	The president asks why. Councilmen showing respect for speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u154	A respectable president. It was nice of yah. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional trade committee, was here to bring clothing on his weapons for this discussion. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It is of great interest, however, that the 18 meetings of the Committee have not been left empty to comment in one way in a material way on the many comments that have come from both public institutions and the European Union on this subject. That's kind of thought - provoking. That's what they say. A member of the Parliament that the Environment Committee has not discussed this matter with any knowledge until January he is unbecoming. I'm sure he's lost them and he's going to apologize for them. [[Up front.]] That's not true, and it knows why. A senator was well - versed. I think there is good reason to wonder if this issue can be taken right away into the committee and that it would work between committees to review the environmental committee's opinions carefully and to see if there is no better harmony. [[The president calls.]] There are so many points that have already been identified, apparently not at the council, although it was accepted by a greater part of the employment committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u155	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct the change in electrical law. The talk has been about many remarkable and beneficial things, but after listening to it from what you heard when you first heard it, it is surprising that we are in position to find ourselves in this situation. This has been clarified, but it has also been found that some aspects of the work have not been worked well, since the 200 - page notes that appeared to have not been discussed in the above - mentioned article. A professional health committee. It has also been informed that a review requested from an environment and transport committee has not returned to the employment committee or has not been considered a reason to wait for it before returning the committee. A case that, to the extent, deals with the environment and affairs of the community but is sent into a business committee, and then compromises and agreements that there is also a review of the environment and transport committee, and that the matter should be closed without a particular decision taken from both the majority and the smaller parts, which gives you both a surprising and a suspicion of the handling of the case. I sat as an assistant on an environment and transport committee the day the case was taken from a job committee. That is exactly what I asked, and I discussed the situation as to whether the matter was leaving a professional committee at the time. A little bit the other day. At that time, there had been no plans or publicity available on either the Environment and Transport Committee or the Employment Committee. It will be of utmost importance, and it has been reported that it was most unfortunate to take the case out of a work committee before the Commission's opinions on the environment and transport authorities have been discussed. I said that it was sad to observe how things are going because we are talking about a subject that is presented with a good mind. Europe's releases are being introduced, long-term thoughts are being tried, efforts are being made to sharpen how to address these issues, ensure that everyone's approach and ensures that the discussion will become the most professional. But now the issue is made clear in spite of the statement. A minister who handles the matter is that he does not lie down, and he has to work hard and settle the matter. The issue has come out of the committee, but it is almost not cool with anything. But let us not place such a problem between more and less parts of the council. Differences are no less relevant to the government, the EEA, the Organization, the Union of Icelandic rurals, a travel agency. It's kind of no matter where you look - I haven't read all these 200 pages because I haven't been discussing this specifically on the Committee -- it's full of comments and very many, and most of them seem to me to be comments that will make things better without damaging it in any way. You will ask: " What is the motivation if a person makes the matter fast and tries to get it done in a way that makes him unhappy, and what motive is behind it? Is there any hidden thing, if you don't mind me saying it like that, i.e. any underlying factors that have not been observed? There is no reason to insist that the matter ends today or tomorrow, and therefore we have to agree with that request, or I want to agree with the wishes presented here, that the matter should be addressed to the committee, where there are detailed comments made in speeches, in reviews, and therefore answer them objectively in writing on a committee, as should have been done in committee partying, what arguments are there against these factors. I said the matter was originally well meant and should have been no basis for a disagreement. True, there is a talk about and stringing up strings on sensitive factors, which are about how humans associate with nature, but we also discuss how we handle the matter in the most democratic way. How do we secure the access of selected agents to make decisions? That criticism has been very harsh in the discussion; why, now, when both long - term and short - term strategies are being developed in connection with electricity, as expected in the bill? The long - term and short - term system plans are being planned, which are only three years old. So why don't people put the system in such a way that we make use of the processes and forms that have been introduced to similar programs? If there's something that's causing us problems, it's in this sort of litigation that will always lead to a war state and strife if not well into the future at any given time. This makes it a law to take up the laws outside, which, if anything specific, you can apply it to the council, and that is how it should be, and follow and change, etc. Of course, the main thought should be that we would be working on a ten - year long schedule, a three - year strategy, and that plan would be implemented until then but submitted to the council in a similar way to a transport plan. By means of a review of all the suggestions, a public discussion, we could expect us to get better acquainted with each other. No, for some reason, people try to take a shorter route. There are some institutions that have generally been responsible for organizational matters, we take from the rural groups planning, we give power to the Power Institute, both to plan and to monitor it, all of which violate our better awareness of how to handle such cases or at least what the verbs have said in recent years, i.e. with better democratic coverage, trying to settle matters together, and trying to offer some suggestions that can be settled. I said, "Is there another view behind it? ' I have a feeling in this matter, as in the past, that when people talk about making peace and talking about making a case, some people have no conclusions but that the agreement is with them rather than with the masses or the whole. It's not a way to settle. We will see the discussion of the fishing ground when it is announced that there is no problem. It is always a matter of agreeing with the person being referred to, not to compromise or to find the best solution for most people. That's how the matter looks to me, and that's why I'm in the speech program in this case, even though it doesn't depend on the committees I'm working with. What's interesting about the case too, and it's very interesting to many of the other issues that have been coming into this council, that's the Regulation, i.e. permission to hide a minister by law to make various decisions. I've criticized it on academic matters and in other places, and it's actually been criticized through comments, including those. From the Federal Agent, if I recall correctly, and from other sources that if you are going to have such extensive regulations, this must be corrected for the Regulation, i.e. the law must be prepared as to what the Regulation should be or, in many respects, normal, that the regulations in which it is stated and put in place, as have been done in a number of cases. It's critical, including. ... fromprecautions. There's some black card, we don't get to see it, we don't know what's in it, we don't know what's behind it, what decisions to make, or who to take them. We know that regulations are in place, and in the presence of suspicion, this is a very bad way of leading matters forward. This includes the magic word that is also used in all such laws, i.e. Let's talk about it. It's supposed to be all over. I have to admit that this word is becoming meaningless because the word "review " means anything from just having a conversation once in person to working together, being involved in work, and all that between us. It is very clear that there should be discussions, but the decision is made by a certain person. In fact, the bill says that you do not necessarily have to pay attention to this discussion, perhaps just to listen to or talk to people. It is noteworthy, however, that some large people who have had opinions about how the country works, such as a travel agency, complain that they have not been consulted, members who may be spoke of by those who work in one of Iceland's largest sectors today. They know we're selling the land, i.e. Tourists have access to the land because of its beauty, also because of our country's special status for how many nonsurpassed areas we have, and you'd rather see that they give advice on how we treat our affairs. There is also criticism here, for example, about what I had not thought out in itself, i.e. in the report and in the discussion on the bill, to quote a report that was published on electrons, whether they should be in the air or on the ground, and what the cost is around it, etc. It is the testimony not to be based on that report, but in what way? Has the results submitted by some report been accepted? Is it now essential? Is it perhaps like the fishing road, where men become a covenant committee under my care, just as they have the concept and create all kinds of interpretations that have nothing to do with what was won? Was that reconciliation proposed to the council somewhere before it began to be used in the way they do today? This is the check for the discrepancies we see here. We watch it in our discussion today and with increasing weight. We see it one after another at the council, both in the dining room, in which we discuss matters outside of the program and then in the Senate hall, that is exactly what people have said they are not ready, for example, to give up the organization in the way that is being done here. There are other members who have said and some of the same saying: There is no way that a system plan will be handled permanently at the council. If we're going to go through with this, I think it would be wise to film it because it really is important. We tried to develop a general work principle on how to work precisely out the experience in a transport program and actually as if the idea was behind a frame plan, although this idea was damaged by the current government by throwing out certain things because they have a lot to do to get certain views. We will discuss this bill, as I said before, under the European Parliament and Council Directive, which includes setting rules for production, transport, distribution and delivery of electricity, as well as regulations to consumer protection, which, of course, are very important regarding electricity laws. It is stated that the plans I mentioned previously should be set out on the objective of security, efficiency, availability, efficiency, power quality, government policies on the fixation of electrical lines, etc. This is to the Power Institute to decide without anyone making a comment to it except with some formal complaint forward. It's not supposed to come in here after it's finished. Then the Organization, the Company, and others ask: How can that be? I am aware that there have been differences in line lines in certain areas. I understand that men want to find some ways to resolve a case. Then I'm talking about a conflict, like we've seen in the Road Forest and a similar case. We've been watching that in Hunsa Lakes and in Tahlftirs, people have been warning about lines, but why would that be? I think that's a good thing to think about. We've been here with a body of Congress proposals for action to improve the working state of Huns Lakes. The proposal comes from what? Senator, this is now the highest. The President of the Generalis, to examine every option to use all the energy at home in the province. Reconstitution is being extended. We know that it is producing a substantial amount of energy that is more and less going out of the area. This was not the case when the activation was performed at the time and the men activated the preparation. Then it was a promise to try to use the energy at home in the district. We also know that there are significant losses in the system when people send energy long distances. Is it really possible that these rural communities would like to have something to say when they're laying their backs and scrambling across their areas to get their energy out or between areas around them? The same is true in the case of the Tamive. Then they're just going to solve it because there's such an uncomfortable conflict and they don't have the form to figure it out, but then they're going to solve it by putting the authority to take the planning of their communities. I started by saying that there was nothing wrong with the fact that we tried to find a way to solve such a case, but not so that some small rural societies, although I'm not going to make these two areas into smaller rural communities, can end the long term progress of the nation's interests or the whole population. They cannot be handled in such a simple way as to throw a decision in organizational matters off the board by electric law without finding any other means to settle the matter, a way other than the Power Institute. An energy agency that feels obliged to present, for example, in environmental and environmental activation matters all the advantages to be considered, all the potential benefits to be activated, and stated in the coverage that they do not even consider it their role to explore environmental issues. There are others who should. But where is that coverage? Yes, on environmental assessment. However, the plan is to be done by the Power Institute and then the surveillance is to be carried out on its own. This is not likely to eliminate suspicion. I say the same thing I started. It's sad that we're going to have this issue in this situation because, of course, all of us want to use our energy in the country. We want to do so in the best possible way, but we also want to use the resources contained in Iceland's nature and not lose to permanent natural bulbs or other things that are now one of the largest resources that makes us the most currency in the country today. That's why I trust people to take the case back to the committee, and I know that it has been requested to go there, not only to be some virtual relief there, where at the second noon meeting the case will be thrown out again and that the committee has covered it again. I don't trust anyone. A professional health committee to consider the matter. Since this is not a matter that should be discussed, we should expect not to compromise. But to take it together only; this is a positive thing with a lofty objective, was to be foreordained in environmental and innovations, and was to guide how we are involved in determining national electric structures, transport pathways, and so on. We know that this is a delicate matter, a matter of great importance to the environment and use of it. Then we will not be able to interfere with the planning of rural society. We cannot play with any risk in terms of environmental considerations. We cannot take the decision force from the elected representatives to the Power Institute or some particular agency that is in opposition to even comparable institutions within the system. We need to ensure that the arrival of the General Assembly and make sure that the case is covered in professional discussion, as did the arrival of 200 pages on the subject that we cannot just push off the table and say, "It's nice to hear from you, but we don't take any notice of you. It's not an acceptable business for a professional committee. I point to what I said earlier, to consultation, cooperation and solutions, common solutions, will not be met with violence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u156	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I agree with what he said at the end of his speech that it is only natural for this matter to go back to. Business committee. My opinion is that it's normal to interrupt a second over. and the committee took the matter to heart, in view of the matter. The environment and transport committees do not take place in the pan-European region. Business committee. I imagine it must be taken into consideration by the committee. I don't think it's possible for the council to discuss this matter here in 2nd. without being told what the majority of the employment committees feel about it. But okay. Hv. A senator made some comments in the bill. I'd like to ask you what. Because he stressed that the case was restored to the committee, who he considered to be the most important things to be adjusted. There have been various viewpoints regarding the need for a plan to be discussed at the General Assembly before it is approved. It has come to the view that too far is involved in reducing the planning of rural society, but as it is known, their independence is very rich, so that it is directly discussed in the Constitution of the country, and it has also been discussed that much more important consideration for environmental and natural protection policies is needed. It is my opinion that in the bill, by not taking into account environmental issues, this is a basic political issue, a fundamental issue of nature protection. It's almost like they're ignored on the bill and at work. Business committee. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does he believe that it is possible to settle matters, and what point of this is most important in making such peace?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u157	V.E.G. President. I agree with that. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, said that in itself, it would be the most natural thing to do. The head of the professional road committee requested that the case be restored to the Committee before we do an ampoule 2. In any case, there would be evidence that a person would be interested in considering the matter and taking into account the comments that have been made. It is a little sad for the International Parliament to see the conflict between committees led by both officials, that cases were not handled properly, and not sent in until all too late, and charges were made. The head of the pro board for what? Chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee. It would be at least time for the members to sit down, and preferably for the two committees, to review the situation and to try to see what topics are presented in the reviews, but not specifically discussed in the committees - I mean from then on. Work committee, cross-checking - and what it can be agreed on. If you read this and look at it, you don't understand why this mess is happening. Why has it gotten into this mess? This is a matter that was meant to be beneficial, a case that was to guide things along in order to solve them in a better way than ever before. How in the world did it screw up like this? So I say, this needs to be an open, clear field. I believe that it is necessary for the Council to discuss the matter, that there will be a system plan to be submitted to the General with the relevant reviews. I think it's obvious that the environment needs to be discussed and that it's safe to approach them. You can't just throw it in, then you go to the job committee, you talk about how to use it, and then you go to the Environment Committee, and you have to be against everything called innovation and the environment. It's not that simple. We're talking about bringing these two parties together. I have no doubt that it is possible to make peace, but it costs a will.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u158	A respectable president. I like to hear it. paritaprevir The grace of Godful Hannesson is optimistic, as is his, in fact, hope and intention. If you want to do so by reason of the majority, I think, of course, the smaller part should be placed at the table with the greater part. There I'm not talking about the smaller parts, because we're seeing more of the council members in the debate. Environmental and Transport Committees that make serious comments on the bill. I agree with that. A senator's insistence is that 2nd should be interrupted. and the case referred back to what. The job committee to complete a discussion on this subject and to answer the comments that have been made. Hv. A member of the council listed here to suggest that the Council is getting a strategy for action, that somehow environmental protection and protection have to be established. This requires that people approach these matters with a complete mind of weapons. Sadly, we have seen this, as in the General's review of a frame plan, that lack of understanding of that overall thought seems to be lacking. They think that the usefulness of one committee and protection in another can be discussed, and they do not realize that the ideological frameworks are going to work out exactly that it will not be broken down, that we are forming options to compare them together. I call it modernism. It has been discussed here that in some respects the committee's opinion might as well have been since 1975. Hv. Clearly, councilmen need to go ahead. But as far as their societies and their planning are concerned, for now the independence of rural society is very rich, both in constitution and in law, I ask: A member of the body of elders says that there are ways to make peace with him, and what exactly does he provide in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u159	V.E.G. President. I think it is very important that those of the two committees to discuss the matter have the opportunity to sit down and discuss matters. I think it's quite enough to put that group together. We don't have to stand here for hours. That's a good paradox of the council on these two committees. However, all the features of this 200 - page presentation need to be highlighted as well. These are not very many things, but these are the same factors - for example, it is not a large bill - that is being criticized by all agents; they are drawn out, and what are the risks involved, for example, by the council. Some people think that the Allied Council is getting in the way. I don't share that opinion. All I've seen here is that people want to move on and try to solve it and respect the majority of the council at any given time. That's not why they stop. I would also like to draw attention to the fact that I felt very interesting and important to hear the highest opinions. Environment and resource ministers and the highest. Minister of state. We're talking there about major lawsuits. When you take the case through the government and enter the council, the speech that came from the highest level is often followed. Industrial Minister at his time, i.e. that the council is permitted to change the matter. Take your time, don't bother, let's settle this together. Despite that desire, the highest. There hasn't been a minister. As for the independence of my community, I think it's impossible to take independence from my societies, but I'm stressing that there's a process to settle. If we are talking about great interests against limited territories or groups in the country, there must be some way to resolve matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u160	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He mentioned that if the situation is not made better than the one done, an adjustment must be made. I call attention to the fact that the opinion I represent in my 1st small part of the employment committee has a contraband. It is based on a high level of criticism, including the opinion of the European Commission of Organizational Affairs, which states that the bill is neglected and that there is a much more careful explanation and logical support for the problems of planning. I end my committee's opinion to say that the matter should go to the government, which should work better and in a more thorough way, and try to settle the matter, but I am certainly ready to try altogether on a professional committee to achieve some reconciliation in this large matter and that the committee takes into account the viewpoints of those who have come from an environmental and transport committee, both memory and more. I want to hear a point of view. A senator in regard to the national structure. It's being accomplished today, and they're waiting for it. It has been noted in reviews that a system plan has been proposed to enter a national structure. Then we'd have to wait for it to take place and we'd like to work it together, because it'd have to overlap in the future if a national organization is going to expect anything beyond a planned strategy. How, then, do we do so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u161	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists and draws attention to the fact that I am quite aware that there is a paradox to make a suggestion. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir, i.e. proposal to refer the case to the Minister for further implementation. I may agree that it may be wise to point the case there, but I think that before it does, the two committees should be mentioned at least I'm gonna get together and try to figure out what's going on. It is not my goal to delay this matter or to throw it off the table. The goal is to find a better solution, and that is what really matters. Hv. The head of the pro board laughs. I get it so that he doesn't have any hope of bringing a thing to its outcome different from that of violence. That's what I hate in this room. They don't have the guts to take the discussion. Here we have the highest. Prime Minister, who always talks about reasoning, but I've never had him here in a chair. Hv. A senator comes in here, and the lava over the Chairman of the Transport Committee says that he did not return, so we forgot about him. [[Up front.]] Let me say this differently: Making a hard attack and critical the president of that committee very hard. It may be true that men have taken too much time to give them review, but there is a process of processing between the committees. It is a process of processing, being resolved instead of creating further conflicts. The national structure is called for. I don't think that's what you should be waiting for. On the other hand, this must fall upon that work, just as we are making a risk assessment of how we increase security in our country so that people cannot ruin things. For example, there are tremendous electronic lines. We've been discussing this with the volcano in Holhuun. So, of course, this has something to do with it. [[The president calls.]] On the contrary, I'm asking that this matter be decommissioned. On the contrary, it be taken along and tried to solve it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u162	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you what. Senator if he believes a plan should be implemented for environmental assessment. As I understand this bill, there's no way a system plan is to be expected for environmental assessment. For a system plan such as it is intended to be in this bill, of course, there is a wide and wide intervention in the natural world when a moving company makes some suggestion for a transporter maker and the Power Institute prescribes it. The reality then is that rural society must take it into its organization within four years. Got it. Don't a senator have the big issue involved in this transporter construction that there is a reason for a strategy such as environmental assessment? It has also been observed that environmentals are not put to high ground in this bill, and it has been brought to the attention of the committees of the employment committees in Article 2. does not mention taking into account the implementation of a system plan. Is that not strange, since one of our largest employment roads today is becoming the tourism services and all that goes with it, and over 80% of the tourists coming into the country come from a vast, unquenchable landscape and beautiful Icelandic nature?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u163	V.E.G. President. The case we are considering and introducing in Icelandic law, as I came to do in my speech, was designed to simplify and enhance efficiency, to explain processes, to try to ensure that certain things would be done to guide the situation. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. In terms of a strategy to be ten years old and three years old, I don't think it needs to have environmental evaluations unless Power Institute is to be closed and returned without any other party being involved, it is out of the question but that it is not an environmental assessment. But if it goes to the Generals and we discuss it there, I feel that it should be like a road program. We do not take every move on a transport program and put it on an environmental assessment, but we need to make sure that this coverage is done before we go into action, as it has been. I tend to try to look. We need electricity and we need it all over the country. We need to be able to distribute it, and we need to be safe. Among other things, we can see this in our own economic situation. A senator, like the West Coast, is in a lot of power safety. We know that we need to improve all lines and we need to find solutions to ensure that companies who need energy, etc. can be treated there. But that does not mean that we should throw everything out of the environment, just trying to achieve it. We need to draw together these two aspects, practical use and environment. It is true, and it also shows in the bill that because the matter is presented in this way, environmental issues are not discussed. There is, of course, one weakness, and the basis for it to become incompatible with the bill, or one of the factors, is that there are many more. It is the democracy, the assembly attendance, what is done to the communities, and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u164	A respectable president. Now this discussion has been here today and has been very good. We've done some serious research. Then decide which. The head of the pro board, what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, bringing in some sort of joke I've never seen before. He argues that the review of the environment and transport committee was one of their own amateurs, that it was badly processed by the Committee, the committee only held two meetings that are wrong, and it did not work well. What kind of speech is this for those with whom? The Environment and Transport Committee did this as well as she could, carefully reviewed it, arranged to write the Commission's opinion on the job committee and send it to the job authorities. And these are the greetings the committee receives. Is this what this council is about to pass on? [[It's a scandal.]] It's a complete scandal. [[The president calls.]] This is no way to treat one another in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u165	Mr. President. Here comes before what. Chairman of the pro board. Of course, everyone expected that he was coming to wear clothing, but unfortunately he was not. On the contrary, he indicated that within the job committee, there was great agreement and that the one mentioned here would have indicated that she would have to respectfully state to her body whether she should be involved in this matter. I am prepared to give such a talk from the public speaking chair of the Generals and wait for it to happen. The head of the trade board is showing respect for their members and their opinions. Of course, I think of this matter. I'd like to work democratically and discuss it within my council, but it was never meant to be part of the Internal Affairs Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u166	A respectable president. I reiterate what I said before, this case is entirely lacking. A greater proportion of the workaholics have been identified to be prepared before the Environment and Transport Committee gave their comments that made a significant comment, an opinion not taken into consideration the serious comments made on the 200 - page case reports on the case, shows that the matter is not ready for the 2nd issue. I reiterate to a respectable president that there will be a recession on two. Um., the committee reexamines the matter and attacks the criticism presented. We've done a detailed study of it in many talks. There has been no answer to the representatives of the greater part of the work committee how they have accurately anticipated the handling of this serious criticism. I can't help seeing that this discussion will be over here tonight. [[The president calls.]] It would be best to pause the discussion and agree that the committee takes the matter back, since this work is not acceptable at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u167	The president makes it clear that there is a request for this matter to be addressed to the employment committee between the 2nd and 3rd. and the president assumes it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u168	A respectable president. I agree with them. Councilmen here have spoken. I am next on a talk, and I do not consider that to be a talk, but I would like to draw attention to 1 mg. 23rd par. A Parliamentary song that says, by permission of the President: ▪ The Council can direct the panels laid down and the committee needs to be considered. It can be referred to at each stage of the committee. If this is done before the discussion is complete, it should be postponed. During the discussion, the 95th paragraph goes back to. for a talk during that discussion. Then I'll also draw attention to the end of Section 4. which says, by permission of the President: ▪ Skal print the reviews of other committees with committees on the matter of Congress. [[Taken out on: right.]] This was not done in this case but ignored the more part of the employment committee entirely of the environment and transport committee. As has been said many times in the public talk today, this opinion would have been felt only because it was accompanied by a decrease in part of the employment committee. [[The president calls.]] It must be taken into consideration. It's a violation of Congress law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u169	A respectable president. I think the President has to realize that the situation is in such a way that no one is involved. Here's what we've got. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson is doing quite well in participating in the discussion. Other than that, there is the same well, all reviews of the case that have been discussed, reviews of the case, and reviews of the story. Environment and Transport Committee. It has been said that the matter has been neglected. This is as far as 2nd. It will not be finished, and it must return to the Committee. It's not ready and it wasn't even ready to start a 2. This is the case. We can continue with some talks, but the case was not ready for 2nd. Hv. The job committee did not complete the case, which was before the first one, but the committee did not complete its discussion in a way that would be acceptable for the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u170	Mr. President. I'll make a note of what you're saying. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son here earlier tonight, who was considered by me in two terms very reprehensible, on the one hand, when he withdrew from working on the Left Green on a professional committee, anyway. paritaprevir According to Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir, she was independent of her work on the committee and had no regard for the matter until she had discussed it in her council. I can totally tell you what. A senator that says this is not the case, except that he should think about his own course before speaking to his fellow members. In fact, I attended two meetings as a substitute member of the Committee, making numerous comments, following things I said about the matter to 1st. and then we naturally agreed on further work on the case, the chief and the deputy of the committee. Long ago, members of the left green state would not accept this case unless they were making significant changes, as well as reviews of both the majority and the smaller parts of the environmental committee. Then I'd say so. Gunnarsson The work of the environment and transport committees was shocking. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u171	A respectable president. I considered the careful coverage of this subject at the Committee. No comment was made by any member of the Committee, a representative of any sort, to investigate the matter. They're all on this committee party, except why. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. Björt's Ólafsdóttir was absent from sickness, others are on the committee, all other members of the committee. Such was the case. I quoted earlier in answer to why. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney to see if she'd be on the case. It was like, "I have to talk it over first in the council. " That's her answer, and I was just quoting it. It's just as said. When I'm critical of the Environment and Transport Committee for Work, the Committee didn't see a reason to meet Landsnet, no reason to meet Power Institute, no reason to meet energy companies, not Union and not the European Union of Employment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] You can talk about a very professional and professional discussion on a committee that doesn't meet the companies who may play the greatest part of this game. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u172	The president asks why. Councilmen respecting deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u173	A respectable president. Is there no senator in the advance? Can a member of the Independence Party stand in the General Assembly and discuss that the head of the Environment and Transport Committee, the head of the Convention, the Höskuldur of Þór Þórhallsson, is not his work, and is not misdirected and unconcerned about the matters entrusted to him? [[Up front.]] So, has no one in the 19th party of the Agency been forced to take care of his confidant at the head of the Environment and Transport Committee? Where's the senator for the forward party? Has the advance team thought to replace the head of the Environment and Transport Committee or to understand the silence of the Agency in this matter so that they agree with the judges of Jón Gunnarsson's son's decision regarding the chairman of the Environment and Transport Commission? [[The president calls.]] Or how does this come about?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u174	Mr. President. It's amazing how bad it is. The head of the professional cartel will continue to dig a hole in this case. When we were discussing these matters and reviewing the case on the committee at the time, I requested a postponement. There were no comments from the Environment and Transport Committee, and I requested a postponement. The postponement I've been given, which I expect to do. The head of the professional road committee will remember, was 24 hours a day. The following day the case was taken up for lunch. Certainly I would have mentioned it to you at the moment. The chairman of the Committee said that I would discuss these matters in my body of Congress. It must only be my business and how we work democratically in the left moving ◯ green supply. I reiterate this, and I also find it strange. The head of a professional car board will not discuss the criticism involved in this matter in a material way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u175	A respectable president. It's amazing that already a dog. The head of the prosecuting committee decides to come here, be so light of honoring us with his presence here for a few minutes at the end of a meeting, that he should come here to oversee his members on a environmental and transport committee rather than to take some material discussion about the matter. He has not said a single material word on this subject. This is one of the most dreary views I have ever seen based on the comments involved. There is no attempt in a committee study to answer the comments that come on in 200 pages of the story, and then there is a problem. A senator here merely to run lava over his companions and to say that they did not do their job. A respectable president. It was not the mission of the Environment and Transport Committee to take two of the guests to what purpose. Business committee. Our job was to examine the aspects of the environment and transport committees, and the visitor's access to us reflected it. [[The president calls.]] Hv. A senator cannot stand here and speak in this way. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The president is to stop this meeting and discuss with the head of the employment committee as well as with the head of the Environment and Transport Committee and try to settle this matter in some decent way. [[The president calls.]] This is no way to discuss the matter further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u176	President of the court. Senators are worth deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u177	V.E.G. President. It is quite remarkable in this discussion now about the President's conference board that men will be able to quote what others mentioned in committees. I thought there was an agreement that you could tell what you were doing and what you said yourself but try not to quote some committees in the chair. It's been a custom, and I think it's important because it's the best thing to tell what was being done on committees. This too involves careful coverage on a job committee. I'm not going to question it, it may well have been done. Some of the people on the committee's faces thus made clear that they made comments on the exact structure in this regard. I recommend it to the highest level. The president's review of this matter will be considered and the communications of the committee will be taken up on the Presidency Committee. What if the committees are not returned, what happens then? Then, as here, humans can be conducted without giving up members of the Committee, which has formally on 1st. They're here to discuss it? Is it really possible, though, to bring it back to the council without following the opinion requested? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not how we can stand for it, and I know it's the best. The president is not very pleased with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u178	A respectable president. I agree with someone else. Of course, members of the council here have spoken, it is not acceptable to quote two people at committee meetings, and this is not the norm. On the other hand, I can truthfully say that as chairman of the left movement, a green offer is that we discuss matters at the council meetings, and that is not our business. I think a respectable president has misunderstood my proposal earlier when I suggested that there be a break in the discussion and that the case be sent back to the committee. I didn't mean that this should be the end of 2nd. For it is absolutely clear that the matter is not ready for the second. Which is the real material discussion of the subject. Advertisers'opinion of the professional road committee ignores the comments made in a much greater detail. The Environment and Transport Committee and we must make the requirement that these committees discuss this matter before we accept the material discussion under 2nd. I quote the council, which shows that cases can be referred again to a committee before a discussion is completed and that they are simply postponed. That's what I suggested here, not about the 2nd. It would be over, for it is a material discussion, and it is not ready for the discussion. [[The president calls.]] I don't think the General would be appropriate for this discussion, since almost no one from the more part of the employment committee is participating, as you can see and will be seen in the hearing. [[The president calls.]] It's just not okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u179	A respectable president. Because of what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hjörvar, head of Congress for the United States, came up earlier and asked where the head of the Assembly of the Agency was, I'd just like to tell you about it here. paritaprevir In the middle of the afternoon, Egilsdóttir Eglirdóttir went home sick with flu. I've been here as the vice president of a house-to-house council all day, and I've been listening to this rich, lively discussion of the anti - government and the executives, including the members of the board. Yeah. þm. The Þorsteinn of Gerstein, the son of Sæmund, who has been hosted here, is a member of the forward party. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[Up front.]] I eagerly look forward to hearing this discussion so that we can finish the 2nd. and the case has entered the 3rd. and hopefully the law will become as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u180	A respectable president. Now I am legally excusing the flu of one man after another and the head of the House of Development, but I miss it from the Senate vice president that he is not to be defended by the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, Þór Þórhallsson. This committee director has declared that Þór Höskuldur Þórhallsson, who has been assigned to the head of the Environment and Transport Committee, has worked badly on the case under discussion that this is the case. So you must ask the advance party if these statements are not made on account of the advance party or if the advance party was planning to switch the lead into an environmental and transport committee. We must also ask, a respectable president: Is there more to this matter? When a greater proportion of the environment and transport committees feel the need to make significant changes in the case, I believe that there are only five or six members of the Management Board, and at least there is a higher possibility that there is more to the matter at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u181	Mr. President. This was an impressive introduction from the House's vice president, who listed members of the executives in his discussion and forgot the problem. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson, president of the Environment and Transport Committee. Was his speech munk? Didn't she go out here today? Is the chairman of a panel of prominent officials denying his party partner, Höskuldur of Þórhallsson? Doesn't he think he's a member of the board, most of it? I thought that was it. A senator would be on his way up to the speaker's chair to pick up his glove for a reason. paritaprevir In Höskuldur of Þórhallsson and the transport board, which has been unremarkable from what has happened. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who, as mentioned above, seems to think that when a professional committee is consulted, from another committee responsible for the process, it is to repeat the whole process, they call everyone the same guests instead of looking at the factors that are professionally heard under the committee. Criticism. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son on the Environment and Transport Committee is indeed glass-house stones, for that is exactly the majority of the employment committees that are getting their workforce here, not vice versa. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u182	A respectable president. This discussion is below all the caves. I can't tell you where she is. I'm waiting for the highest. To take a stand on what has been mentioned here by both sides. paritaprevir Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir's beak. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who is referred to in paragraph 23. A Parliamentary song that says, by permission of the President: It can be mentioned at any point. If this is done before the discussion is complete, then it should be postponed. I want informed from the highest. A president of such references. Who can request such a statement, and how does it go? It is certainly to be expected, and as so far as we have seen, the matter is by no means ready to be discussed in the natural 2nd. because they are neglected at the beginning and badly missed by a professional health committee. Then I'll pray to the highest. President taking a stand on how you're doing. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is breaking the 19th floor here. Persuasion when quoting words that appear at a meeting of a committee [[The president calls.]] 19th degree. says, with permission of the president: It is illegal to refer to members of the committee's comments or visitors falling on closed committee meetings except by the person's permission. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. This should not be mentioned at any point. A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u183	A respectable president. It is not the first time that the person standing here will discuss the matter at midnight and may not consider it an taken point in view of the magnitude and size of this matter. In view of the words that have fallen today and this evening, it is kind of indiscriminate to refuse to listen to the arguments presented here and to refer to the opinions presented under the case, and it seems that most of the work committees have been ignored. As I said earlier at the council, I have been living under the discussion today and have become more familiar with many facts and because this is not a case that belongs to the committee I am on, I feel obliged to try to put myself in the situation. It's not like it's a lightweight problem, so of course, you're wondering how you're doing. I also think about it as an empty hall of council members here today, with the exception of the leading committee's opinion of more things and such a recent head of the industry, which I think is the best thing to do in trying not to do well and to try to do in an evil way instead of adapting matters. I have wondered, " Do the council members know this matter in general, or do they care? ' Should we assume that they think it is so that they can let someone else say that it's okay to vote for them? It would be interesting to know if most members of the Parliament could answer for this matter, as this is one of the larger issues we will discuss. In my view, the work practices here have been unacceptable, not to wait for the opinion of a committee requested as outlined here by the Environment and Transport Committee, and to take it out when it becomes clear that a minister has said that there is no hurry. So I agree with what has been said here that the president will discuss it with the council officials at least. and will adopt as part of the presiding committee how committees should be conducted. Clearly, doing this in a way that has been done here is not in the best way, and the practice needs to be much more complex. The purpose of narrative must be to improve matters, to create better legislation, and then the situation of members of the council is important, as do others whom we ask for respect. There must also be an increased chance of reconciliation if committees are respected and reports are taken into account. As we have considered, the criticism has not been a materialistic answer to the majority of the employment committees, and this is by no means shown in the opinion. It must call for questions about why the criticism is not being taken into account on the bill or on it whether it comes from the Organization, the Union of Iceland, or the National Protection, or who is now the one who has given his opinion and put on it a lot of work. The following is a detailed analysis and comments, and of course, you ask yourself, " Why is this not really looked at? ' I wondered, " Is it the goal of the head of a business committee to have issues in general because the local minister says that there is no hurry?'She stresss that the matter is settled. Then, as mentioned earlier, I wonder: " What is really in this regard? Why was this so urgent? A respectable president. This is what has been going on today and has been raised in the discussion, and it becomes increasingly evident that the matter is not yet made up. It is not enough to have guests in a meeting if you almost ignore what they say or offer formally. It must show that people are going to settle matters according to their own interests and not according to professional reasoning. I don't know the whole thing, and I haven't been sitting in a meeting or a visitor's place or anything like that, but I've read it over and monitored it, and it indicates that there's too many things here that need to be adjusted to make things right here. And it's something special when you think about the convention program. I suppose that many people now think we're having a filibuster. I don't think so. So I think that we are trying to force the issue to be taken into account, to consider, and to consider the opinion of a committee that is given to give their opinion of the case, is being taken into consideration in a business committee. It hasn't been done. It's a serious matter, and I quoted earlier in the Senate because the environmental and transport committee's opinion is not submitted by the opinion of more parts, as it should be. This must be considered by the president, who has to be discussed with committees. I agree that the matter is to be brought in, of course. You should not wait for the discussion to end. Then, a major change in the matter will likely be made in terms of reconciliation and improvement, for it has been shown in our discussion today that people are willing to make peace. It's not about the left and right politics. This is about how important community institutions make big comments, and it is very special that a sincere desire is to oppose what is presented in them. I'm going to grab into what I've been throwing around and finding interesting, but that's even. the process of these matters and the process of consultation to be carried out. It is stated in the bill that a large proportion of the procedure should be carried out by the Regulation, as stated in D-D- force 2. ... withauthority of the President's permission: The secretary is allowed to set up a directive that covers the transport company's system programme, information to be part of a system plan or to follow up with it, how to conduct a consultation procedure in its preparation, implementation and follow-up, including what resources the Energy Agency has to ensure that a system strategy is followed, how to determine options and the basis and methodology should be used. I think a minister is being given extraordinary powers here. I agree with the opinion that the council and its elected representatives should come to this important process and preparation, and when options are available, a committee and members of Congress will be able to discuss it, get it on board. Of course, it is now very clear to the point that people really know what it is to agree with a directive or to plan that it follows with a single capital, especially the one intended to deal with such a vast area. I think it's also one of the things that we need to push the Executive Director into, to increase this further, because it's far too rare for regulations to come up with the bills. When it is written by law and regulations to follow it, there must be some idea of how it should look and therefore no reason for it not to follow, at least, Dr. I just want to come in with some reviews, including... ... fromSeconds. It also suggests that there is a considerable lack of consultation with stakeholders and wording in such a way that there is a lack of respect for modern environmental and natural protection issues and that the structure and self-management of rural society are being taken into account by the bill. Because it was spoken of as being derived from an ancient age, or at least 1975 or so, it may support a little in the fact that people feel that these are ancient practices and not in harmony with what we are supposed to do. We all know that environmental and natural awareness has increased, and we want to improve our consultation with policy. The rural communities have called for it very much, and they do much better than the State in that regard. It's just part of modern society. It was also discussed, and it makes people think about that in B-jot 2. The bill should not be taken into account in the implementation of a system plan. It would raise questions as to why the committee chooses not to change the bill to take into account this. Then, too, it is very shocking and it is brought to the attention of a review that the Power Institute to be a security officer in the System Programme should consult only the customer of the transport company with this monitoring, directly except the stakeholders. As we have discussed, it is clear to the local communities that there is a greater possibility of reconciliation if there is more than here. That's 2. The bill that's supposed to be 9. The law, which seems to be the most in the case, and I wondered before what it would be that the committee would find it hard to consider. The development of rural society is tight, and the Constitution itself is said to be impaired and needed to make changes. You wonder, " Why would the committee want to be asked in such a way? ' The transport company gets a lot of power, and if they don't get along, the whole thing's stopped. It has been suggested here that the procedure can be handled in a manner comparable to that of a transport plan. I think that would be a very good procedure and suggest that when the committee takes the case to heart, it will be considered, and I feel that there is a great need for someone to back it up as if they can't walk. I think there's a greater need to discuss that local planning is down here impaired, as the local communities complain. A reference work by the European Union's member states is published on consultations with a system plan and suggested that differences can be referred to as a formal reconciliation committee. There is nothing in the employment committee's committee's gather. The European Union also calls attention to the conclusion of a new chapter 9. c can be an example in similar matters, and are referred to as decisions on the fixation of transport and communications workers. Of this, it seems that the majority of the employment committee are not concerned, and it would have been interesting to note why they do not feel the need to address these concerns. I think we need to take a good careful look at the basic thinking of local planning. Is the General willing to do so in this way, unless the communities are in fact getting their point better or being taken into account? So it's just something that's come to be? More of the employment committee thinks it's okay. I don't believe that it is, and I don't believe that those senators who have not listened to the discussion or sat here today or observed or studied this matter can agree with it. There are so many who have a share in this law. Talk about landowners and nature protection organizations and others who are upset about where they can shoot their case if they are not satisfied with the outcome. I don't think a professional health committee can afford to file a case for the council so neglected, so I repeat, like others, that if the President plans to continue the discussion, she will be suspended and referred to by a committee, but she will not be picked up again tomorrow and finished. Right in the end, I agree with the opinion of the less part of the employment committee at the time. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir proposes a deduction proposal. If the majority of the committee do not accept this and do not want to resolve the matter in any way, there is nothing to do but dismiss the case. I don't believe that, either. Minister will do so, in the light of her words. There's so many things here that tells you that you can make peace without the case that goes for yourself, I believe a lot more peace can be made, at least More than we've got. It is important to draw attention to environmental issues related to this, but it is very repeated and has been noted in many places, and the Union has also seen reasons to suggest in its review that environmental issues are being placed in the bill, including Because Ensorithm should only establish a system plan and others should not be there. The smaller part does so much, and does not feel that it is in accordance with the third EU electricity directive as a system plan should be subject to professional, independent and strict monitoring. There are also other partners and even the same. in a national protection memo that says, with permission of the president: As confirmed in a 2011 report by the Norwegian Energy Agency, Power Institute is not prepared to monitor the implementation of electricity laws. The Agency lacks complete independence to monitor such activities, where the people working there, a total of four employees, are directly subject to the energy manager, which is responsible for all the activities of the Power Institute, which is mainly for expert advice on energy supply and energy at the hands of the authorities. This independent surveillance from other aspects of the European Commission will be prohibited by validation of the third energy directive. It seems completely unscrupulous to hide the Power Institute under these circumstances all the increased power expected by the bill, the 305th case. It is almost certain that ESAs will monitor it very closely. It quotes the Norwegian Department of Energy, not any members of the council or anyone in the city, but is here quoted by a member who took it out in 2011 and directly says that the Agency is not ready to conduct the surveillance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u184	V.E.G. President. In fact, in the absence of a time when the matter will be brought to a committee in the middle of a discussion so that a reconciliation can be made, I would like to ask myself, " What is the most common cause of conflict or conflict in the current council? ' In this regard, I would also like to have a formal conversation because it says that there have been a number of meetings on a job committee and that no one is going to question it; yet, despite the 200 - page reports that followed, very little changes are made. Hv. A member of the United States who has been a member of the United States government is now a member of the northeastern United States. There is no secret that you have complained that energy is difficult to get into that area and that you can even have trouble returning energy like in the Valley and elsewhere. At the same time, other rural areas see the energy between areas, as mentioned in my talk, e.g. from reconstitution. Farmers pray not to cross their lands to defend their interests and to want their energy to be new at home in the province. Is the way out of such a dispute to take the planning from the communities? Must not a person find another way to resolve such differences or to resolve such a problem? Similarly, what is actually presented as a proposal from the European Union: How could a system plan be developed and a way to resolve a conflict that arises?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u185	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. We've been through a lot here. Of course, it bothers you that this counsel is in word and not on a table, as they say. I think the members of the administration body have offered the dance to be ready to communicate and to settle this in the spirit of the highest. Minister said, but it's not enough to hold meetings and make visitors if you don't hear what you're saying, and you choose who you listen to and just hear what some people say, but not others. That's obviously what it's all about here. There can hardly be seen as a political person in it and as well as the reports from our institutions when so many serious comments are made. Because this was a talk about taking the planning of rural areas amongst other things to cross countries and other things, I could never support such an action. There is a reason to change the main structure to conform to a system plan, which I quote about the history of the European Union of rural society, by permission of Presidents: ▪ If damage by 51st par. leads from a decision made by another administration or by laws relating to a certain type of land use that a community was obliged to comply with a planning decision, the State is responsible for the payment and has to be injected, if appropriate. I wondered, " Is this one of the things that have been discussed? ' A professional committee, but I don't believe that this was the case based on the existing opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u186	Hv. The senator discussed in his speech the suit of regulations, which are referred to regulations without the fact that the instructions are very clear about what is referred to there. I'd like to hear a better opinion of who. That's what a senator will do, because we have shared in other activities. General and Education Committee. There we have faced the same problem where people often resolve matters so that they are referred to a law without very clear instructions on what to offer, which in reality conflict with all the instructions on how the law and regulations should be used. I'd like to make a little more of the Union's comments. It is of great interest in the review that the introduction of the bill welcomes the relationship at work and describes the goals set by these laws, which, of course, are trying to make a clearer decision, plan, work in time, and speed up payment, etc. At the same time, however, the relationship wishes for further explanation. I read a word from the U.S. local Union comment with the permission of a president: ▪... that in explanations of the bill, it would be clearer, preferably with practical examples, whatever problem it would be to resolve by means of the organizational intervention proposed in Article 9. c. ◯ For some reason, this relationship's wish had not been realized. I'm amazed that this is also not mentioned in the committee's list of parts of the job committee, in fact, nothing in the general comments. Why is this not clear if it is to justify the movement of organizational authority to advance debates without special involvement at the table? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u187	A respectable president. I'll totally agree with it. As I said earlier, I feel that there must be something we must consider, and the president may have to do with the executives in this regard. Of course, when a large proportion of the prime measure is being brought to the minister in the form of a Regulation, the attendance of members of Congress is becoming very limited, unless the Regulation is submitted at the same time. It is an opportunity to influence what she looks like. The relationship correctly points out that there are cases of any conflicting issues that might arise that justify the proposed treatment. They also suggest solutions that you do not like to be taken into consideration. It's not always that you see in the reviews that come to this point how you can resolve a matter without entering it in a way that does not involve pleasure. I find it very important when it comes to regulation that it is not done in the way it should be done, much of the matter, far too much to do. This responsibility comes from members of Congress, whom we have at least declared we want to have, to ministers who are allowed to manipulate it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u188	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to start by asking the senator about her self-administration by a member of the Union, which is the Constitutionary, if she thinks it is a reason to be concerned that there is a trial, whether there is too close to the constitution of the Constitution on the autonomy of the community so that it might be necessary for the courts to part in that process, whether there would be an uncertainty about the legislation in this process. Then I find the matter ideologically interesting, for here the members and ministers of the Independence Party represent laws that actually build on the vision of a centrally controlled program of government custody, that we eliminate free contracts from free persons and laws that highlight human rights and free business agreements. I think that's a bit of a mistake, especially because here, in general, interests are being dealt with to see if a line is to be proposed in the cheapest way in the air or whether it's going to cost to put it in the ground. Then it is unfortunate for the community's overall interest that it is only the interests of the layman, in this case of the Landsnet, which should be employed, but should not take into account the high cost of rural society, that lines limit planning options, and for landowners in that their country will be less valuable and potential to use their property rights, as the same independent group in the last century at least Speak before, it can reduce considerably. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u189	A respectable president. I agree with the senator regarding the planning. I think it's like this one's pointing out. In the United States alone, it is quoted as saying that this is the cornerstone of self - governmental rights that should be respected. The relationship points to a way in which this article can be simplified and softened so that it will be acceptable to local communities. They do not consider the majority of the employment committee to be a reason for doing so. It is then indicated that there may be improvement of responsibilities for the organizational changes that the government could have because of the laws of law if a major organization has to be changed. They claim that such responsibilities can cause the State to need or improve their duties, even if appropriate, to settle land. They cite, among other things, the review of the Agency, so it is not in my mind - or yes - that this can be true in my mind. This should be considered before the case is agreed. Of course, it would have been necessary to allow members of the council to have an opportunity to talk about the matter. As we know, 2nd. the topnote address of each bill, and unfortunately, the bill came so unashamed in here. It's about the line and doing the cheapest thing in the world. I agree that of course, it is unacceptable that only one of the relevant parties is involved and not taken into account the costs and problems of rural society and landowners and others. It's totally unacceptable. This has been shown, among other things, at Akureyri Airport, where people would like to lines in the air rather than in the ground, is one of the things that Akureyri has been fighting for its beauty and wisdom. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u190	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I wondered when the senator refers to potential reform rights, which, of course, could be significant in this payment if it was to be true that we would support and bring in unpredictable costs for taxpayers if such a poor deal is made as it appears to be in this process, whether it is necessary for the case to go through at any time. The budget is because of the problem. A senator is now seated there, to review this aspect of the matter. However, there may be no reason for this if the committee that has custody of the matter does not allow so little to wait for the opinion of other committees on the matter. I wanted to ask the senator about the seeming uncertainty involved, and if it is not completely in her mind that it is really the best thing to do in this process when even the institutions involved, including the machines. Government agencies, in their comments to the council, describe how to handle certain matters, whether they can clearly create uncertainty and problems with the act of the law that would be unnecessary if there was a better way to do so. Maybe in the end. Is the senator aware of any particular problems requiring this great intervention by the State and the government? In many parts of the country, societies and the state have been discussing differences in viewpoints about linemaking in many parts of the country, but, of course, they have come to an impact on these materials and have no compelling necessity or harmful national interests, which they call for the State to take over so much control of the situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u191	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. No, I'm just gonna start where it was. The senator concluded, I don't know that there's any need to be on this case, and it's absolutely true that there's a certain number of different categories of this medium management here that we're trying to use but still in the interest of a private company, let's not forget it. This may be what is well stated in the environmental and transport authorities' reviews, which are related to the opinion. paritaprevir The Lilja Rafney Islands Magnúsdóttir in the minority of a professional company, which includes the inability to negotiate a case that can be agreed on if there is a difference and that it is not as unprovable for rural society to coordinate its plans for transport, which is still agreed to as the World Councilis resolution, as presented here. This requirement does not have to be taken into account in rural society, either how the population develops or how it manifests itself in their main or any of these activities, is not taken into account. I believe there is reason to warn against what is being said there. Of course, a man is concerned, although I don't think it's a reason for the matter to happen to a financial committee, I believe that before long some acceptable conclusion is reached in this case. I can't believe the case is to be run through with violence, and I believe the minister will step in, and if not better than if there seems to be no wish for change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u192	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. A president directly wishes to be responded to the supreme response. The president intends to make the comments made tonight during the march. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, president of the professional trade committee, in a public talk chair. It has been pointed out here that Congress laws have been broken. Here's what we've got. A senator revitalizes and minimizes the work of another council. Should we just let it be unafraid? I have to say, I'm primarily very bored of this march. I can say that everyone in this hall is trying to work well and do well. There is no such thing as sitting down, and especially not from a senator who has put nothing into the discussion, nothing. There has been no physical expression, no nothing, and no effort to answer the material comments made in the reviews or reviews at any given time. Environment and Transport Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u193	A respectable president. What status do we have? What's this paper for here, the General Assembly? Are there some of us to pay attention to what is in the Senate or all of us? How is it, a respectable president, that some members of Congress can so clearly and conclusively break the mood that it doesn't even have to be discussed? Is that how it is? Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has become an independent problem here. A senator and head of the professional board is an independent problem at a Senate Hall. Is it true that he can unfashion a council law twice this evening without making a comment? Is that so? I don't think there's anything I don't think I'm going to get the answer to that question. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u194	The president's opinion is so strong. A senator is referring to the article under the requirement that no words be referred to that will be quoted at a closed committee meeting unless they have permission, that is. [[Twenty-niner.]] However, the president has not previously thought that there was a particular reason to agree with that article, even though it occurred during discussions at the council and actually outside the council, that there was a recommendation that has been referred to at such meetings. Only in this regard do the president want to refer to this article of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u195	A respectable president. Don't you think that this is a satisfying answer for me in the way we deal with the Senate. This may call for a discussion about how we are involved with the council creation that I thought we should respect. In fact, I have made a comment to it in the winter when they have not been respected, as in the case of committees and other things, so I feel that this calls for a new discussion about it. But I would like to ask a respectable president if it is not right for a respectable president to take into account the procedure I had earlier this evening that the discussion would be interrupted and the case referred again to. In view of the fact that a professional health care committee did not take into account the information asked by the Environment and Transport Committee, as it is required to do according to the same body of Congress. A majority of the employment committees were to publish the opinions of the environment and transport committee with their members, but this was not done. Since I cannot help but conclude that the matter is completely underestimated by the majority of the sector's sectoral committee, I feel that it is a reasonable and reasonable requirement to ask the committee to complete a discussion on the subject before the 2nd issue. you will be informed. I want in the highest. The president's position on this request.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u196	In the past, the president has expressed his opinion that it is only natural to finish the second round. and then go to a professional committee, as suggested. A committee can then, following its discussion, publish a follow - up opinion that published the majority of environmental committees'opinions. Senators have been referring. There is no need for a president to pause the discussion for the discussion to be considered before the discussion ends.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u197	Mr. President. I'd like to know if there's a choice at the highest level. President when he approves of Congress. It was noted in the case of a president earlier that the use of 19 branches was not his custom. Is it, then, that there is just some tradition in the president whether he will employ some of the branches in the Senate to the debate at the Assembly Hall and at once? Senators violate Congress laws? I think it's very strange, and I'd like the President to explain it further. I'd be more of a pain in the ass. The head of the professional trade committee would come up here and apologize and would not put a president in the position that is evident in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u198	Because of questions. The senator's answer is obvious. Of course, it's up to the Senate. The president has kept talking about it, and he knows why. Of course, the senators all want to follow the council. The president simply noted earlier that it is not an isolated case that has been quoted directly and indirectly in a comment that has been made at a committee meeting. The president has not considered a special reason to make such comments. It's clear to the president, like the otter. Even so, members of Congress have not felt that there is a special basis for making comments on this subject. However, it should not be understood that when that happens, the president is pleased with it. Congress officials do not follow this article of Congress, but the president, as he has previously tried, has not considered a special reason to address the matter directly from this chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u199	A respectable president. I'm amazed at it. The president thinks it's okay, doesn't consider it incomplete, and sees it as a reason to ignore four mg. 24th par. Congress. It says that the reviews of other committees are to be printed with a committee study on the matter of Congress. There is evidence that the majority of the employment committees did not do so. I think it's very special if you go after some seminars and some people don't. When it is absolutely clear that this was not done, I do not understand how a president can agree that a material discussion can be completed. In the case of a professional professional committee, this opinion, however, was not for material discussion. How can a president agree that the matter is not underdeveloped? I'm completely incomprehensible that he can settle for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u200	A respectable president. I think there is every reason to sharpen the understanding of people in the council. How should we continue this discussion in this convention? A respected president long ago did not explain how he understood 1 mg. Twenty-niner. that it be forbidden to quote the words of the committee or the visitors who fall to a closed committee meeting that it would be unusual to do so. It just happens. Shall we begin to open up a normal behavior here that we testify to form in the words that appear in the meetings of the House Class? Shall we? Where is this limit? When does it start, and when will it end? When is that okay? Is that all right with you already? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is? Or it's okay when it's right. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir? Sometimes, but sometimes not? What are these rules? It's not acceptable. It's not good enough. I want to know, too, because of the highest. The president says he thinks it's the end of 2. ....., what conditions must be really met if these are not sufficient for a case to be addressed, though 2 Corinthians. is not finished. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What conditions, then, must be met?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u201	When someone is trying to turn his words out, the president does not appreciate much. The president was merely calling attention to the fact that more than once and more than twice have been quoted directly in the comments of men from committee meetings without the direct application of the president of the President. However, the president has other resources to use when it comes to the fact that the body of Congress is not fully developed. It is not in itself the only option to take the case from the president's chair as well as the president's. Of course, members of Congress should know. That's what President was beginning to do in his comments earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u202	Mr. President. It is of its own rights, if I may say so, that it has already sour butter on the Hólars. In the past, a person may not have stuck strictly to the terms of the council not to quote what others say at committee meetings or elsewhere. It follows that it was not good, as it were. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson made it because I made it clear that he was speaking down to the point. Senator, that this was done in a disrespectful way. That'll make things worse. I don't think it's inevitable that we'll discuss these dealings with members of the Council on the Presidency Committee. It's obviously not okay. After a talk or two. paritaprevir Höskuldur Þórhallsson, son of Thorhll today, director of the Environment and Transport Committee, was finally aware that this interaction between the Parliamentary Committees was not okay and that it is based on a professional committee, or more of it, on that topic. Hence, this has been a reasonable requirement and well - prepared after the 2nd. If you have a delay, the case will return to the committee. [[The president calls.]] It's the best option for all parties. It's suggested by a willing spirit in the interest of the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u203	A respectable president. In addition, it was said that not only were men quoted but they were basically putting words in their mouths or suggest some version of a non - human language. This is not acceptable, and the president is not supposed to feel this. I'm glad he tells us here that he's going to pick this up at what he's gonna do. A senator under any circumstances other than this one of the President's chairs. I must also say that sending a vote for 2nd is not going to work. ... since we're actually finishing each piece of the case, with the motion no better than this. That's what we're asking the highest. President to revise. The committee will consider the whole matter again after it has been voted for it. ... awrong.? So, then, should men consider the comments of their members in other committees, members of the council they have requested? It just doesn't work. This is not the case for votes. That is why the matter is requested to be agreed on and found on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u204	Mr. President. It has been revealed today that this case is not prepared to be taken into custody and 2nd over. It turns out that more than a part of the employment committee has been supplied without having reviewed environmentally relevant environmental, organizational, and community issues. It turns out that more of the employment committees were in desperate need of environmental committees because they had truly corrected the program. They want the board of directors to go to the lottery, and most of the employment committees, that tomorrow is a council meeting. It allows the board of directors the opportunity to discuss this matter among themselves and to consider whether it is not a reason to take from the lesser part that there is a full reason to postpone a discussion, to reinvent the matter, to review the environmental committee's comments, to see if there is no room for reconciliation on the case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u205	A respectable president. It's a big misunderstanding if anyone wants to say that I've been talking down to it. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir back here. First and foremost, I was stressing the extent to which this peace was settled from a business station, in the broad political reconciliation. No senator made a comment, and I was witnessing to that fact. I would respectfully ask for it, a respectable president, to have referred directly to the senator's response when I asked if she would be with us on the case, I referred to her answer. There were no comments about us taking care of the matter. No comment was made at the latter opinion of the majority of the remaining portion. It is true that we were received very late by the Environment and Transport Committee. The committee had discussed the matter since mid - November. I don't think that she could mention her work at the time she had been assigned to this case if not careful. [[The president calls.]] That's what I was criticizing earlier. I feel very sad if such a time is not enough for a committee to express my appreciation for another committee. [[The president calls.]] We cannot allow it to slow us down on a professional committee, even though others do not have time to handle their current issues better than they do. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u206	A respectable president. If the smaller part goes down. A job committee would not have published reviews more or less of that. The Environment and Transport Committee would not have lain before the council today, if the smaller part of the council had not kept up the discussion on this matter, because it doesn't make much more part of it, the conviction for the case is no greater than that we're not aware of more of the section here, the probable thing would have crossed without this particular statement being asked, and the case specifically referred to. Environment and Transport Committee, not even for discussion. It's the kind of work I'm going to make a note of. That is why I say that this case is neglected and not available for votes. The process has not been concluded in the way the General Assembly would expect it to be met. I testify to the highest words. A minister who resolved the case, he called for this wide agreement on the matter, that it was very important that the environmental committee involved the case because it was also a major environmental issue. Then there's nothing to do with it. A respectable president. That's why I'm saying that the case is not ready for vote today. This discussion must be interrupted, i.e. if we want to do our job properly. I'm one of those who want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u207	Mr. President. Hv. The head of the professional car board comes up here and may not add much to the situation by word of mouth. He speaks of such widespread political reconciliation. In view of other matters, a person may not fully understand what peace means to him. But I'm going to adjust to refer to him when I spoke of the need for a review from an environment and transportation committee. Of course, there is no universal political reconciliation, although at the end of a long committee meeting, this major issue is not to be addressed. First, I'll ask for some time, and then I'll have to wait a day and talk about the need to discuss this matter well with my council. [[The president calls.]] Is that an understanding of political reconciliation with me? Does that mean that my opinion of politics is at peace with the greater part?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u208	A respectable president. I thank the President that I made it clear to the 19th floor. Congress is still valid, and the head of the professional trade committee is still in charge of apologize for this inoculation. I think it would also be to pay for the case if the head of the employment committee took the initiative that this too would be respected in the 23rd chapter. Congress and president would take it to heart if it wasn't because I agree with what. 9th. That's the north side. " Cinderelly of Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir, that law must, of course, also be fulfilled. In view of the wide agreement on the Committee, it may be normal when I know no better than at this commission meeting that both the representatives of the United States and the Bjarts future representatives were sick and absent and a left green person with these comments and as far as I know, Piratars are not the principal members of a professional employment committee so that the political agreements are not broad enough. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u209	A respectable president. It's hard to get involved in this discussion when it's all about turning out of your mouth. That's exactly what happened. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, representative of the United States and representative of the Bjarts'future, were not at the meeting. The Conspiracy's representative was sick at home. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, who was with us on the phone, and he's on the committee opinion, as indicated. [[Foreground: In advance.]] A representative of Bjartar's future was gone. I couldn't get in touch with her to see if she wanted to be with us on the phone to resolve the situation. She was also ill, but she has no particular committee opinion on this matter. Her opposition to the case had not been made at committees, so this is what I call greater political reconciliation than we can handle many other issues in the council committees when one representative, i.e. A representative of the left green, has a special opinion, and does not agree with the results of this vast majority.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u210	A respectable president. That would have been very convenient for you. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is listening to a talk by Björt Ólafsdóttir during the council today because she had a lot of warning about this and the whole case. I simply warn that people will allow interpretations of absence and illness to be so freely accepted by members of the committee. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] We cannot talk about a situation in a far - reaching way when the position of one committee differs from that of two men. It is not only free to interpret it as a broad political reconciliation. It's off and on and on and on, but it's not seen here today. That is why I ask more of the committee to recall the matter for further consideration. The head of the professional trade committee is so concerned with achieving this vast political reconciliation. [[The president calls.]] It could be in sight if they were ready to review the matter again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-24-69.u211	A respectable president. It would have been helpful for the head of the job board to study the advance of Kristján Möller, who was in advance of the rating, to hear a talk from Ólafsdóttir Olafsdótttir today about her viewpoint on the matter, and to study the opinions of the environment and transport committee, both the administrative parts of this committee and the memory of the section. I believe that the majority of the committee are now required to take the case to a committee, though 2rd. is not finished, because if it is not, we are at the same starting point at the beginning of tomorrow's meeting rather than using tomorrow to review the matter on the committee, fulfilling the regulations of Article 23. Parliaments, review the environmental committee's opinion, and try to put this matter into some sort of frame of mind that it may address something here at 2nd.
