ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-19-133.u1	President of Iceland. All councilmen. Ladies and gentlemen of the party at the General House. Good citizens of the country. I'd like to welcome all of you to this General Assembly Summit as soon as I congratulate all of us on the day. June 19, 1915, is a big day in our history. Today, we recall that 100 years have passed since Icelandic women were elected and elected to the Generals. At the same time, it is to remember that this day the domestics, shops, dry camps, and rights were given the same rights. The birthday has been remembered in many ways throughout the country. It is admirable to observe how active individuals, communities, schools, institutions, and rural communities have been in remembering that day. And yet, the birthday year is not over. I would like to offer thanks on behalf of all those who have helped. I would also like to use this opportunity to thank those who appointed the Commission of the anniversary of the Styrkársdóttir for the Auður of their fine work, but this committee was elected according to the Council on March 11, 2013 by the representatives of Icelandic women. I would also especially like to thank Ásta Ragnheiður Jóhannesdóttir, director of the Birthday Committee, and my predecessor here on the Presidential chair for her very active activity in all the plans of the birthday year. It has been shown that her experience in public service has been well - developed in her assignments. In a democratic state, there is a general vote and a vote that embraces all social conditions. In that sense, democracy in Iceland was severely restricted until 1915. The 1915 women's rights to vote were limited to men at the age of 40, but not at the age of 25, as for men. It was not until five years later with a new constitution in 1920 that the same rules apply to the vote of men and women. Thus, the 1920 Constitution of the United States of Iceland was an important part of our administrative history and a big step to ensure the equality of the sexes. The battle for women's votes and elections lasted some 30 years, and at that time women's demands could not always be understood. This is evident, among other things, in the words of those who objected to the Council to grant such rights to women. I allow myself to quote these words that once fell: ▪ I think that men are far superior to women in public service. Women are to be mothers of their children and take care of household chores. But this was a happy minority, and Icelandic men were sufficiently forward to appoint Iceland in a class with countries where women first received a vote for Congress. Only four countries had taken such a step before. Despite the right of women to volunteer for Congress, it took a long time for sufficient understanding of political divisions to give women political successes. From the year 1922 onward, the first woman attended the Council of the Council and until 1983, there had been only 12 women at the Council as nobles. At the same time, however, 278 men at the Council had served as nobles. In effect, the ice was not broken until the publication of the Women's list in 1983. Today, the Council of the 10th Council consists of the council, which has to appoint most of the women at council and is now about 40% of the world's population. Twenty years ago, in 1995, we were a little higher on the world list, in place of 8th, and that despite the fact that much fewer women were then at the World Council, i.e. More than 25% of the U.S. Congress. This highlights the pleasant fact that these developments are developing in many parts of the world. Of course, the 1915 wedding rights that women received, and 1920 was just one factor in ensuring the equal legal status of the sexes. In these areas, there have been many successes in recent years. Still, there is work to do. In this regard, I want to mention the sex pay that is still common in the community, and I'm happy that in the recommendations presented for the future, about Iceland's equal rights fund, and that is the contribution of the General Assembly to the election's anniversary, it is among other things that should be given funding to work against the demands of the sex and to promote the general equality of the gender in the labour market and in the commercial situation. [Centennial Cologne Vox feminae sang the song Women.]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-19-133.u2	V.E.G. President. Less than 160 years ago, in Hagigli, in the Water Valley, a woman was born who would determine the first steps of a woman's fight in the rights of women in Iceland. Bríet Bjarnhéðinsdóttir is remembered for many things, but today, with the permission of a president, I would like to ask a body of Congress to accompany me west into Hunsan County in 1872, where Bríet wrote his thoughts on paper at the age of 16. For the next 13 years, she showed no one these thoughts until they appeared in the Mountain Woman in 1885, under the covert Æsa. It is noteworthy, however, that in spite of all their arguments and objections, men cannot provide valid reasons for their belief that women are more incompetent for any kind of progress and education than men, or that they have less right and claim to do so than they do. But more remarkable is the fact that few have found a calling to write on the subject, doubtless called one of the most important, women's education and rights. And yet the mind of no one may be confused, that this matter can be called the foundation of all true education and progress. The woman was created to fulfill her duties and to enjoy the same rights as the man, to the extent that her abilities and desires would permit. She is the same as the man's partner. Thus, the thoughts of the 16 - year - old Bríet Bjarnhéðinsdóttir were two years before the Icelanders received a constitution. Among other things, she was to be the founder of the Icelandic Women's Women's Women's Institute for Women's Rights for Years, producing the Women's Journal, becoming one of the first women to be elected in the town government of Reykjavík, and the first woman who volunteered for the Council after women received a vote and a vote, to name something. Icelanders owe much to Bríet and other tail women and people of this time. The idealism of the equal rights of the sexes, which they have lived and prospered in Iceland, grew to such an extent that now, 100 years after Iceland became one of the first countries in the world to give women the right to vote, the country is at the top of the world in an international comparison of equality between the sexes. The result was never self - willed, but has been attained by intense and destructive struggles of both sexes ever since. Even so, there is no total equality in Icelandic society. It can be better if it's enough. The vision given to 16 - year - Bríet Bjarnhéðinsdóttir, in Iceland, 143 years ago, continues to burn with the Icelandic public and the government. We must never give a discount, of course, the requirement for equal human rights to all citizens of the community. Never. V.E.G. President. It is a pleasure for me to recall that the balance fund now in the Ministry of Presidency was established for the 30-year anniversary of the Women's Day of Ásgrímsson, Prime Ministers' Day. That fund was set up on the basis of government release. But here we are discussing a proposal made with the arrival of every group represented at the General Assembly. This highlights the importance of the subject. Besides, it's good for the fund to be heard by the Ministry of Presidency. This emphasizes that equality is in fact a matter of the Ministry and all other Councils of Iceland's Government, such as the Generals and Justices and all public institutions. It is also important that we do good in the fields of equality in other parts of the world. A country that enjoys the privilege of being considered a role model in this case has the obligation to use that position to help others. V.E.G. President. I am convinced that Iceland's new and powerful Assurance Fund will become a huge lift and strengthen us to continue our lead in this series, to be our weapons in a battle that can never be over. Bríet Bjarnhéðinsdóttir was an official fighter for women's rights for 30 years before women were elected and elected on June 19, 1915. During that fight, she never got tired, nor did she get tired of calling on women and men to deal with this righteous cause. Bríet concluded his article in the Mountain Woman, including these words, addressed in today's equal struggle as 100 years ago by permission of a president: It is hoped that before long, they will consider this matter, and that it will be not only the individual who so far brought it up but the common people. Good Icelanders, women and men, girls and boys: Happy birthday!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-19-133.u3	President of Iceland. Ladies and gentlemen of the feast. Dear Icelanders, sitting at home. We know well that there is increased rights with increased responsibilities. But we will take both with joy; to whom Ingibjörg H. Bjarnason spoke in a speech on June 19, 1915, when women finally received a vote and a vote. Despite increased rights, things went slightly ahead and had only nine years later served at a council of only nine women. During a debate in the wake of the event that we are now celebrating, one of the members of Congress said: ▪ Even if I'm female, I wouldn't like to expect one of 20 women at council all at once. Although more than half of the women have broken the wall since the turn of the century, we, 100 years later, have not been able to fill half of the seats in this hall, much more. Only in the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir have women and men shared their seats in the government. Thus, men have been in more part in the government for 96 years of the last 100 and in the office of prime minister for 95 and a half years of the last 100. And the government groups, two of the oldest groups of the country, have never been led by a woman. We were proud when Vigdís Finnbogadóttir was elected president of Iceland, the first women in the world, but she is still the only one who has ever served that office. These facts show that the lot of women so far is still just like a sample. It is not norm in Icelandic politics that women are prime ministers; it is not nor is it that women are equal in this room or in the government. And women in general risk more than men in politics. So it's still a project, and I dream of experiencing such a radical change that there's no news that the election will be more women during the council or that a woman will become prime minister. Women's rights to vote could not be met without conflict, but a changed attitude likely became a bigger obstacle than anyone could ever have imagined. On the day of women's vacation in 1975, Svava Jakobsdóttir, said, one of three women who attended the council: ▪ In view of the fact that more than all the decisions in the hands of men, today the question remains whether Icelandic women have ever been in charge of society. Has our work served the goal of building up a society according to our own standards, or has our work been used to build up this society by the formula of men? This is a question of conscience that we have to ask ourselves today. What is the answer to the question of Svava now 40 years later? Are we building a community according to the head of women? My answer is, "No, not enough." Surely, much has been accomplished, especially by the Women's List, who broke a sheet into the political history of women. We've come to daycare for all children, more women are educated, more women are in management positions, women can now seek help because of their violence, and more women are sitting here in this hall. These changes have been in direct contact with the increased political involvement of women, but they have not been enough. Not only were women over 40 who were elected 100 years ago, so it is no coincidence that the socialized movement also has a 100 - year anniversary next year. Following the administration of democratic rights to the most powerful groups of that time, there was a movement that fought for their increased rights and authority. Over the past 100 years, even astrologers around the world have provided social change in equality and continue to clear the path. It was set up as an answer to the general election, and it placed on the program of politics and the rights of ordinary people. We officers fight for the increased power of women because it is the key to a successful community. We know that women's role in caring for their careers is still affecting their progress and that inadequacy of well - being affects women who are still caring for children, the elderly, and the sick of family members to a greater extent than men. We know that the birthworm and a shorter day are equal devices that need to be better used, and there is still a need to overcome gender pay. We fight sexual violence. Violence against women will also not reduce new forms, as Iceland's latest wave of feminist action shows. The breast revolution is anti-snatem porn, and on the ŠBeauty tips, women break the silence of the violence they've been subjected to at the hands of men. So there is enough work to be done, and then we must also remember that women are not a single group, and actions in the interests of equality must reflect the needs of different individuals. Special attention should be given to the status of women of foreign background, women with disability, and women who live in poverty. We can rejoice today and thank you for the progress that has been made through the involvement of women in politics, but tomorrow the fight continues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-19-133.u4	President of Iceland. Mr. President. We are celebrating today a major milestone in democracy and equality development in Iceland. The lead to this phase, the election of women and men, was long and stern. John Stuart Mill wrote his famous book on women's oppression in 1869, published in the turn of 1900. There, Mill reasoned that women's oppression inhibited mankind's progress and that there would be a perfect equation between the sexes so that neither of them had any privilege or power, and neither one would be excluded by law from anything that had ever been met. The problem, however, was that women's oppression was rooted in strong, deep - seated feelings and that those who acted under them would not accept any evidence that this struggle would take time. It has come true. In the spirit of Johns Stuarts Mills, the European Court of Rights gave birth to both wings through neighboring women's movements. After a lecture by the Bríet Bjarnhéðinsdóttir 30, December 1887, it begins with a full talk, giving the headline a talk on the benefits and rights of women's rights. There, Bríet said about women's community involvement: It is the narrow vision and the foolish judgment of the masses that cause so often the lack of burden and patience in women is neither lack of reason nor desire to get ahead. It seems that it would be so incompetent for women to develop independent opinions and enforce them that they cannot earn it, if that should be regarded as ◯nominal. [...] In the past, it was a good custom and self - determination that women ride together with their fathers and their husbands. And there is no mention of a word, even though women and men spoke publicly and freely. But now it is condemned incompetent or unorthodox for women to attend a meeting. Mr. President. When rights to minimize the rights of others are necessarily unwarranted, and often the judgment of the mass is narrow - minded, but it also has a positive effect on the rights of others who did not have the right to vote in 1915. The cohesive power of the class struggle had not yet taken up land, but the power of one group can open a door for other groups. Shortly after the election year, the left parties were formed in Iceland, and the men who had prepared for the subjugation of capital received a lawsuit for their cause. The labor fighters had got voters. The vote, however, was not the only change in women's status. Women's cohesion has had a tremendous impact in our society, and many efforts have been made. Women's education is one of them. The freedom of women to control their bodies is another stage for which we are still fighting. Although many decades have passed since Katrín Thoroddsen, a physician and general member of the United States, radio broadcasts under the heading "Frequent Loves " were introduced in 1931 as she presented a method of contraception for women's right to control their own bodies still, as shown by the breast revolution and the sexual abuse that has developed among women who are present and trace to their history. Such a fight is never painless. It can never be in accordance with the board of directors at any given time. We at the National Assembly of Iceland need to realize that our primary roles are to ensure the right of each individual to participate in and shape our community, whether they are women or men, disabled persons, or criminals, children, or old people. The public interests that we are entrusted with are focused on creating knowledge, environment, and the setting for revolution toward increasing social justice. We do not take steps in the right direction by accepting the situation. Rather, we are involved in the struggle for a better society and the conversation that will bring us on the way, even though at times that conversation may seem unpleasant and difficult. Mr. President. In the left movement, a green campaign supports the proposal to promote the balance fund for the next five years, and we hope it will be in order to support the eternal war of freedom that is always about our rights. My fellow Americans, happy birthday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-19-133.u5	President of Iceland. All councilmen. Ladies and gentlemen at the Assembly Hall and those at home. Happy birthday, really. I don't want to be chosen because I'm a woman, it's supposed to be my choice because I'm a man, and ◯ said 35 years ago, almost to the day, the former president of Iceland. I remember those words and their importance for me, just when she was 13 years old and curiously observed this woman, she felt both courageous and unorthodox, but probably as many others thought she was a bit steep to volunteer to the president. But it happened. Vigdís became president and at the same time a prominent role model for Icelandic women. And for a girl like me and for girls like us sitting here, she was not only the first woman to be president but also the promise that women, like other men, should have a choice, freedom, and opportunity not only to vote but also to be elected. Most of us Iceland have many such memories, many good equality memories. Women's Day, women's offer, same legal rights, the same right to birthworm, the first mayor, the first prime minister, the first bishop, the first president, and many more. All the results of so many Icelandic equality struggles, especially if we stay only in this hall and in his story and in our own personal history. The results of one human age are unbelievable. So there was no woman in this hall, no woman at the General in the year my mother was born, and before that, only two had received such a vote. In the year I was born, there was one woman in this hall who had spent a total of six women in the General Assembly. But now, when my daughters and children of this land grow up, here are 27 women and are over 40% members of the council. And similar developments have been in many other fields of Icelandic society. For many years, as mentioned here, we have been in a series of countries that are most successful in equality. The results of much and are explained by many and many. However, what is most separate is that the major factors in the equality struggle have come into harmony and with the support and solidarity of all political parties. Perhaps it is one of the reasons why we are able to keep our eyes on the results, preserve them, increase them, and share them, as the suggestions presented here are expected. But this has been the case, a respectable president, of course not always. Today, a hundred years ago, women received the vote most, but not all men received more than 70 years earlier. And it is behind a long, hard battle for what we today feel is probably normal. Today, therefore, there is reason to thank those who resisted discrimination, with equality, those who broke the path, and took a stroke, such as in these halls, in rural governments, in employment, in homes, and wherever it was available. No doubt, a hundred years ago, it would take a lot of courage. But there is no time for such courage, for there is still work to be done. So today, too, let us thank those who are now awake and make their mark on the discussion. Their methods may seem unconventional, as did Vigdís a few years ago, yet they describe the same courage as those of all, regardless of gender. Until that reality is realized, however, all of us have the privilege of continuing to do better. The subjects are, as indicated by the proposal for this discussion, a number of but preferably to maintain the successes, to engage in sexual pay, and to encourage young women, young men, to participate in democratic activities. During the milestones this day may be the most important task of sending a clear message to all, women and men, that the right of the election is important, that involvement is important, and that politics, as far away, dull, and impossible as possible in chapters and sometimes active, are important. And they are worth good people, good men, women, and men, participating and being concerned. And that is why it is so important that politics, the public debates and struggles for ideas, solutions, and ways, become more objective, more reasonable, and perhaps only more feminine, softer, and milder than the appearance that now appears to us almost every day, whether from this hall or elsewhere, where people come in contact with their opinions. A respectable president. Ladies and gentlemen, please. In this day, let us be proud of what has been done, be grateful to live in a society that has achieved significant and significant success when it comes to equality between the sexes. And what is more, we can be optimistic about doing even more in the future, not necessarily because everyone in this room agrees to provide a basis for such things, but primarily because most of the men of this land, men and women, believe that this is the case. - Happy Thanksgiving.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-19-133.u6	A respectable president. President of Iceland. Icelandic women. Happy birthday. We stand at great and great breakthroughs, and we rejoice that on this day 100 years ago, a majority of Icelandic women chose for the first time. Time and effort have brought great changes, and today Icelanders boast that they are primarily among the nations on measuring criteria that measure equality between the sexes. The cornerstone, the result, was laid that day by true pioneers, our grandmothers, and mothers who took the fight for us who followed us. We owe it to them, both women and men, for they changed society for the better and returned for the rest of us to live in. We owe it to them that women's education and the potential for them to do so today is just as much as men do. We owe them the principle in our society that parents are equal in training their children and thus become as valuable active workers as members of the community. My sisters and I here owe them a great deal because we've been at the Allied Council of the Icelanders, who are pregnant with various national contracts. That would at one time have seemed most inappropriate and unnecessary. We owe them so many things. The equality struggle was less than a conflict, and none of it came naturally like any other natural law of nature. Like all other human rights struggles, it was difficult, and it took much persistence. Women who fought for the equal rights of the sex were reproached and were systematically spoken down to them. It seemed normal and okay. If only a small amount is seen in social records, you can find the most incredible comments that men expressed when they expressed themselves about the woman's demands to be as right as they themselves. Many things have changed for the better than in the day - to - day equal talk, and we hear a familiar theme that seems to follow us from the past that it is now good. The situation is, however, that women are still being reproached. Young girls are systematically reduced by Internet and community media today with vengeance. Such equality is sometimes difficult for older ones, but it still centers on the fundamental rights to have freedom to act in harmony with what they want and to be protected from being humiliated and oppressed in obedience. A respectable president. Fortunately, in Iceland today, there are women who claim they've never had sex in their lifetime. They simply do not know it by themselves. The victory could not be larger for the women of the past. In Iceland today, there are women who do not recognize discrimination on the basis of their gender. As soon as I embrace them deeply, I can't help but think that at the same time, I'd be charged with equality, that everyone so conscious of us, because we even think the world is mirrored only in our own experiences and positions. Do we strive not to fall into that self - centered pit and be on guard? Throughout history, the women's struggles and ideologies have had the distinction of being able to identify different groups, and thus they need to maintain and keep going. As a leading country in sexual equality, Iceland should make equality one of its export products. Just as we have shared our experience in developing countries, e.g. In the case of fishing, we should be fearless and leading in the development of equality in other countries. For such guidance to be effective, each member of the woman's struggle must make a good impression on the fact that equality has not been achieved automatically, as is the case with natural laws. Important steps have been made, but we Icelanders have also been guilty of returning when we lose our sense of urgency. We are no longer at the end, we still have a lot of unworked things, and we are responsible to produce even more of a better community than we did. The work of large groups of women is still considered less than that of male castes. Women are not equal men in the responsibility of our important fields of employment and human life. We need to take a firm stand against the standards of the sexes, for they are truly a vengeful tradition for both sexes. Sexual violence is a cold fact that will not go away on its own. And we need to fight new ways of oppression against women who, unfortunately, seem to spring up and live a good life in the changing world of Internet and social media. It is among our projects toward the equality of the sexes, and it is certainly necessary to take care of, a beloved body of Congress and a dear nation. With keen eye and awareness of the importance of equality in all things, we can do so best together. With continued persistence and hard work, we grow closer together in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-19-133.u7	Dear Presidents. Ladies and gentlemen of the feast. Dearest nation. Happy birthday, really. In Iceland, there are inequities, so there are all steps to balance progress, aren't there? Women have come to power in many places, but the inequities are increasing, and this must be a concern for both men and women as well as an incentive to continue the struggle for serious equality with great force. I don't think that any real equal victory will be achieved until no child in Iceland goes hungry into bed, until our old people and the desperate can go to sleep without worrying about an empty refrigerator long before the end of the month. Our strength in this society is never greater than its weakest link. The poverty that is growing is a disgrace to our society that has so much wealth brought to us by the mother of the earth and by our father's sea, the kingdom. I'd also like to look at the women's cudddly cudddly faces that rocked the way for them today in that brand of light that we put on them, all those anonymous women who fought to vote, and, yes, all theonyms who fought for this rights that were finally made legal by the century. And let's not forget the women who were first to simply bring women into this workplace, the women's wives, who were afraid to make a team without a leader. They pursued a radical attempt to adopt traditional political traditions, the women who formed political parties that I could tell in the light of their own experience that there is far more work and a far greater challenge than taking in some prime seat, the pointy women in the country's ideals to the countless women who never get any famous sun, such as the women's profession that now has to submit to legal measures to improve their own benefits. Let us not forget, too, the male class, who also turned the bar into a strike trial and refers to police officers. Their terms are also difficult on the basis of responsibilities and work loads. We are dealing with not just sexism but in the face of injustice and injustice. There is no special joy in my heart on this day as I see a corrupt and inhuman system that makes my brothers and sisters fall between the mesh in legal nonsense. Why is it acceptable for us to celebrate one day at the time of the festival to be remembered, while there are many people walled in absolute silence and blindness, since we cannot see our own worth in ensuring that our interpretation funds do not dry up every year? Not only are women's rights acquired 100 years ago. No, poor men finally got the right to select representatives at a council meeting. Let us never forget that we are not just fighting for women and celebrating the success of women, but we must be fighting for and celebrating equality. But is this really equal while we're living in an ever - increasing, inexorable community? No. Is this equal in terms of women south of the Hagland tunnel having only half the votes today for women on the north sides of the tunnel to be represented at the council? No. Is it equal when the law doesn't cover everyone, and here we still live with Jón and Pastor Jón in a legal sense? No. Nothing will change until women take their place in economic affairs and establish a new system there rather than ape up the political systems and the cassino addiction. Women, don't take the power in your arms, they'll never be the cause. If we can't, it doesn't matter who's where. I'm going to end this symposium on the poem A lady of many things is still experienced, by President I Ingibjörg Haraldsdóttir: When they've all been told when the World's Problems Are Estimated and Set Up by the Ways when the eyes are joined and hands being pressed the real moment - There's always some woman coming. to remove the board sweeping the floor and open the windows to let the cigar smoke out. It will not fail.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-19-133.u8	V.E.G. President. All councilmen and ministers. Good Icelanders. During the years of the restored General Assembly, the right to democratic participation was confined to a small band of wealthy farmers and traders, officials, and other men with a learning test. All the common people were outside the scene of power. For a long time, only less than a tenth of the nation had the right to vote for its representatives in the General Assembly. The way to do without impairment on grounds of gender, income, or property was long and callous, marked by conflicts, and the lack of solidarity of rights that now seem to be self - determination. The democratic society, the hallmark of our time, the cornerstone of the administration order, was in no way easy or easy to shape, and is still the dream of millions, even billions, women - and men - all over the world living under the seas and Hades, poverty and oppression. At a birthday celebration, it is good to remember the challenge of rights. A few early soldiers rode on the ground, Bríet Bjarnhéðinsdóttir, with the first public lecture a woman delivered in Reykjavík, Theodóra Thoroddsen, with literature in the Nation's will, both at Isafondi and at the Basers. Its articles and other women were often under covert names, since the era did not allow anything else. The petition on the West and from the City of Germany to the United States Conference of 1888 was of only 100 women, testimony to the fact that the slope was a small one, and the backland was small. When women so welcomed the election to the Council of 1915, with a formation and a flag town here on the Eastfield, decades had passed since the demand first sounded, so long were the birth pangs taken for granted. But let us not forget, as has been called to this day, that the turning point was also the joyful hour of the poor, the common man and woman, for it was no longer a perpetual exile from a democratic effect. Within a few years, wealthy women and men had received their own position and the same right to vote for a representative in the legislature, although the most poor of them had to wait longer. However, the general council continued to look the same as before. During the first 30 years, only two women took their seats here, and during the terms of the district period from 1953-1971, they received either one woman, two or even no vote for the Generals, and actually only three at each election for the next ten years. Thus, the widespread involvement of women, who now consistently correspond to the legislation of the legislative work, includes only about the last third of the 100 years of the year in formal rights. It is a fact that reminds us that success in the fight for a changed society is based not only on lyrics but also on thinking, culture, circumstances, and upbringing. Although little has long changed in recent decades, the influence of women and Iceland is now likely to be significant in the only land in the world where women have met all the highest positions of the State and the church, were in the seat of the legislature, executives, tribunals, and jurists, sitting on the Bishop's chair and in the seat of the Reich. Iceland also has the top seats in international measurements of women's rights and positions, educational facilities, and influence. In many parts of the world, women look to Iceland as good examples. Recently, from the west coast of the United States came here on a pilgrimage. Yet, as has also been repeated today, we know that much can be done better, that in many areas there is a need for improvement in our own study. But on this day, let us celebrate this tremendous success, rejoice in Iceland's position on these topics, thank those who made the most of the action. Every nation must be well - mannered, familiar with its history, and compared with others, not losing its place in the conflicts of the moment. The results, however, will also be our resources in agreement with millions of women who are still in poverty and oppression, deprived of rights and self - worth, women who suffer so severely poor that they spend hours every day to ensure water and food for the next sex, endure self - sufficiency, eat their families, women who have to bury their children because of poor health and hygiene, women who suffer violence and oppression, are almost prisoners of their own homes, women who have to listen to the counsel of men about marriage and are brought to others, even sold, as women who are forbidden to pray in a manner as men do, to cover their faces and names in women's religious names, who dream about freedom, and who are more important than those who are attracted to slaves in previous times than human society, and human rights. At this milestone in our history, let us rejoice in the celebrations, not forgetting our sisters around the world, not only in distant continents but also in the slums of the West. They have a long journey to reach the destination that marks every day the existence of us Icelanders. Let us make a resolve not to let them down. It is a mutual obligation to lift such distant sisters, to be at their side in the battle, to take advantage of our own success in supporting their demands of justice, a duty that connects to one chain the civilized national language of the new century, and a debt of gratitude to Icelandic women who were never broken down by the past and made the ideals of life at all times on the basis of life. [Chingos Vox feminane sang the song Who has a more beautiful country of his own.]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-19-133.u9	This meeting will be over soon. The members and delegates of the Generals are invited to a reception at the Pala IIis and to be present as the ceremony will be opened on the day for the election and for the women of the General Assembly. I'm asking the President of Iceland to walk me by my side from the council Hall in the Pavilion.
