ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-66.u1	A respectable president. The bill on this subject, the bill to correct a change in law No. 30/2004, about insurance agreements, with subsequent changes, is about customer mobility. As a result of an inconsistencies with the Committee and the Parliament, there is a lack of harmonisation and insurance insurance, i.e. group insurance. This is a technical issue involving the adjustment of the proposal. With the change, no rights should be removed, so the rights of the troubled are still equal, as in whole, to the change made here by the bill and the change of proposals and with the changes that went against the 2nd. ... leadingtotheimportability of customers becoming greater and likely increased by competition. A respectable president. I expect the new proposal to be accepted. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-66.u2	A respectable president. I recommend a change of motion to the adjustment proposed in 2nd. that, rather than the words, it would be selected here, as follows: So the new proposal reads to them, by permission of the President: ▪ Government officials have granted asylums, and persons who have clearances on the basis of humanitarian grounds are insured by these laws, provided that they have come to the country and have the confirmation of the National Institute for Foreign Affairs that the rights of a fugitive have been granted or are authorized on the basis of humanitarian grounds according to the laws of foreigners. The headline of this article reads: 'Eastors and persons who have a permit on the grounds of humanitarianism.' This is a change of words, a respectable president, of interest to those on this subject. I suggest the adjustment will be accepted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-66.u3	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to the 626th Parliament, 418th matter. It is a bill for a legal adjustment of the law No. 22/1998, the fishing and construction of foreign ships in Iceland's fishing weekend. The bill suggests some minor changes in the law in order to strengthen the control of the fish of foreign ships in accordance with the UN Food and Agriculture Organization's 2009 International Convention on Disease Prevention, Prevention, and Extremation, Unpredicted and Unsupervised Fishing. These include some minor changes to the current obligation of a foreign fishing vessel flag to report the fishing of the ship before it comes to Icelandic ports and monitoring procedures by the Icelandic government for this reason. The Treaty on Marine Operations was signed by a representative of Iceland, along with representatives of eight other nations and the European Union, November 22, 2009. Iceland became an active part of the contract, and it is important for Iceland's position as responsible fish people to validate the contract. Work on validating the contract, however, has been lost. At present, 11 countries have validated the contract, but 25 countries have to validate it to become valid. The European Union, New Zealand, and Norway are among countries, or states that have validated it. The Icelandic government has for some time declared the validation of the contract. At the FAO meeting in June 2014, a representative of the Icelandic government declared that this bill would be submitted to the current legislature council. The purpose of the Treaty on Marine Operations is to obtain a state by means of a coordinated operation to aid in the eradication of illegal fishing. Me and the Icelanders talked to us about the process of the agreement, but we've had a great deal of good because we've reduced the number of illegal fishing, especially on the Smokey Misses. The contract clearly recommends a coordinated observation procedure and shutdowns of access to ports when the ship's flag state cannot confirm that the ship's ship's power has been caught in a legitimate way and in accordance with adequate authority, or if the ship's examination indicates that the ship has practiced illegal hunting. There is a rapid agreement between countries and commitments according to the contract. I'd like to inform you that the National Guard in collaboration with Fish Service has already been in the hands of state officials in accordance with the rules of the NEAFC and NAFO, i.e. Fish fishing agencies in the North Atlantic, taking into account government contracts. Thus, the European Union's experience in implementing a coordinated marine operation is not expected to include the cost of a government fund made up of what is said. A respectable president. The bill suggests some changes to Article 3. The law to ensure that the legislation is in agreement with marine action agreements, but it is of particular importance that it is proposed to provide access to the laws of the law to accept the value of marine fishing and processing vessels, as stated in the bill, owned or run by a person who has been exposed to the agreement on the use and preservation of the living resources of the ocean, including ships that have been registered in regional fish - control institutions, and who do not run under the few Member States, against violations of the rules of such agreements. Otherwise, instructions 1st appear. The bill is largely unchanged from the current law. There are some additional instructions on how to make arrangements for ships that have been inaccessible fishing. With a factor of 3. The bill is proposed to provide clear permission for the Minister for the Regulation on the implementation of the law. In particular, it is allowed to publish foreign text rules for monitoring the ocean of foreign fishing vessels. It seems natural because it is foreign society, and the rules will not be applied to Icelandic people in the same way. A respectable president. In addition to this bill, the minister of foreign affairs will recommend a synonym which he has already made of the validation of the contract. The contract will be printed as a package of recommendation. This bill has the financial and economic costs papers for the bill. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the comments that follow the bill, which give a detailed explanation for its contents. A respectable president. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-16-66.u4	A respectable president. I recommend a bill on deck. 891, which is 514th, a bill for the adjustment of law No. 61/2006, about salmon and trout fishing. It's a bill written in the Department of Professional Road and Development in cooperation with a hunting partner's National Union. This suggests that there will be legal requirements for the treatment and administration of a hunting partner. There has been an opinion of the nature, rights, and the record of a local hunting partner of Stefán Stefánsson, professor of the University of Iceland's Legal Department, and Eyvindur G. Gunnarsson's son, passed away at the University of Iceland at the University of the United States. It shows that while hunting communities are laws of independence, they are unique, resulting in the purpose of the law No. 61/2006 should be used for fishing rights in fresh water and for the reasonable, practical and sustainable use of fish stocks in fresh water and their protection. This would mean, among other things, that there is an obligation to be assigned and given specific tasks by law, as well as that of the independent property of a hunting society, which is part of the societal holdings that have the right to become a stock market, such as the 37th gre. The law. The purpose of this bill is also the judgment of Iceland's Supreme Court, dated March 13, 2014, in case of No. 676/2013, which states that the approval of every member of the trade union must be in place to allow a fishing home to be owned by a hunting club for rent to a general host and restaurant launching outside a hunting season. Among other things, the premises of the sentence were based on the lack of clear definition of a fishing partner's legal rights in the law of No. 61/2006 in terms of the treatment and administration of the property of a hunting company, but it would be clear that the order of the cases within them and in exchange would be the same as when holding property rights of particular value were in special partnerships, as well as that which could have some reference to the laws on the distinct categories of special partnerships, such as the rules of the law no. 26/1994 of the property house. As indicated by the above opinions and judgments, there is a lack of the legislation on the treatment and disposition of a hunting partner who is obliged to improve. This bill suggests a change to 37th par. track No. 61/2006, about salmon and trout fishing, which deals with hunting society's activities in terms of being added to the e-enthusiastic team, that the role of hunting society includes the use of hunting properties and the most profitable means for societal workers. It also stipulates that a fishing society is permitted to dispose of the company's holdings outside the hunting season for related activities. There is no provision for the management and administration of hunting partners in the current law. Hence, it was appropriate to add a new general law on how to treat and how to appoint a hunting partner. It was also considered appropriate to add a specific law on the authority of a fishing company to set aside its possessions outside of the fishing season for related activities. It is intended to ensure that hunting companies can use goods for non-fishing activities, although they are used for related activities, such as fishing times. The directive has the translation that a legal meeting in a hunting society can guide such a decision in the interest of members rather than getting the approval of all society's hunting rights. The bill rests on, among other things, the argument is that hunting companies are laws of independence and are financial and go, on the basis of the obligation of the hunting rights to the union, by means of the provision of their financial assets. Therefore, the management of a fishing club should endeavor to maximise the profits the seafood rights can produce from their money - making property in the fishing society, as is the case with the provision of fishing rights in the local community. A respectable president. There's a financial and economic expense report on the bill. Otherwise, I would like to refer to the series of articles that follow the bill, which contains a detailed and detailed explanation for its contents. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
