ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u1	Mr. President. I'd like to do the talking and handling of the budgets. There will be a long wait for budgets to be provided for 2nd. and Saturday's program was followed by a tremendous change in time set aside without discussion. It is shocking that such a thing should be made away from whether or not it can be later found because in the case of such dramatic change proposals, it means that in the memory of the three parts, we have been working on our committees, which also make significant changes. We have one helper or secretary who may be able to work with us in the waste and so forth. For example, I was returning my talk to a lecture in those spoken words, ending half a week here. Of course, the management process is not acceptable when the greater part contributes to 9 billion, for which there is no evidence and only some of them and little evidence have been discussed in the Committee. Others have been present but have not had time to discuss it thoroughly with a greater proportion of the budget committee, and despite the fact that it was possible to arrive at a meeting sometime, it has just been so that in the smaller parts, we have been busy trying to prepare our committee opinion and have simply not had the opportunity to meet ourselves. I own this kind of work, so to speak to President, he'll talk to his people in the greater part of the world about this kind of thing not happening again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u2	A respectable president. During the last 24 hours, we have experienced severe storms in our country. When the worst is over, it is important to thank God that we have not been worse, that we have escaped loss of life, and that there has been no more credit. Thanks to our well - prepared efforts as a community, we have a special reason to thank our receivers and the hundreds of rescue workers who worked hard to save their lives. Perhaps we who live at the end of the world are used to things when the weather comes and is reasonably prepared. However, there is reason to believe that more frequent and extreme storms are just some of the disasters that will result in climate change. And not all the worlds are prepared the way we live here in the Arctic Ocean. There is reason to think of the work being done at the Paris Climate Conference and to place everything on the scales that Iceland and I can suggest to avoid the disaster of climate change. The weather matters, as we found yesterday and night, the weather and health of the ocean that we trusted in have such an impact on the weather, the state of the atmosphere in which we live and move, not just small matters, but the utmost importance. The earth's only one bullet. We all live on it. What happens here is the influence of other places and vice versa. All of us are responsible for the future's brightness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u3	President. Yesterday, I received an answer to my inquiry about the seal of a first box in elections. There I get some interesting answers to my questions. It shows that the Ministry provides voters with official sealing, straddling, and eating. Batteries have special lacquercles, intestines, and labels. The answer is granted, by permission of the president: ▪ In view of the minister's opinion, the above official seal should be sufficient for the use required in election law, as the sealing of itself is carefully implemented. Now, with the permission of the President, I would like to read from the comments of Pirata's emissaries from the last election, which were called upon in the 2013 General election. Bjarki Sigursveinsson notes: The seal on many ballast boxes was unmarked [...] seal on several boxes, which were poor and did not fully block. Þór Jóhannsson's Björn makes notes: ▪... [right] was opening a box without breaking a seal [...] a box had a tear-off seal. Only a seal was over a slot in about half the boxes. The managers were not invited to examine a seal on bags that would be provided until late in the evening, and agents were making comments while sealing ballots. A key to a ballbox was often glued to a box [...] from a optimal location, where 10 supersolves came from a ballot, and there was no seal over a slot on a jug... Svavar Kjarval made a comment: ▪ Someone with access to stickers in the same size as a colour could have made one or a very similar seal. [...] When the seal was removed from the boxes, there was no evidence that the seal was ever on them [...] All the sealing should be recorded, and each one must have a unique number and a signal that is hard to copy. The comments were more than just the main points in terms of the problems introduced by emissaries with a seal box. Now that democracy can only be as good as the election. The commission of this Council, and especially of the government, is as good as a broken seal, a closed hole, and a locked box with which a key is not supplied. I don't agree with the opinion of a minister of the above - mentioned government seal, and there's been absolutely no problem with this sealing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u4	V.E.G. President. The following day, there was some publicity in the media as well as from this public talk on how Iceland voted for international nuclear weapons. It specifically discussed a proposal in which Iceland voted for a subcommittee against an international declaration of the ban on nuclear weapons. In fact, this statement has been made at the council as a matter of Congress and of the above and other debates. Councilmen, however, have not yet been on the program. Yesterday, at the UN General Assembly, there was a meeting that voted for various suggestions. It was adopted by 138 votes against 12 to set up a United Nations organization that should work to create a law frame with the goal of banning nuclear weapons. It would have been best if Iceland had trusted to vote with this proposal, but I have to admit that I feel better than that Iceland was among the states sitting by. In fact, it is fascinating to examine and read through votes at the United Nations scene on disarmament issues. It can be seen that in most cases Iceland votes like the majority of NATO countries. Why does Iceland not trust to support the Indian Ocean's nuclear freedom? In fact, the will of Iceland is the greatest expression of being an armyless and peace - loving nation, and it must be a great deal harder to observe how Iceland votes in the United Nations. We have to take a stand here and figure out how to behave in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u5	A respectable president. I recently learned about the alleged plans for the government in France to ban a particular technology that is commonly called Thor, but also ban open Internet connection. These are very bad ideas, but unfortunately they are typical of those that always follow a terrorist attack or a similar human disaster. It's worth learning from history. Terrorism, such as those committed to the Federal Assembly in Germany in 1933 or the Twin Towers in New York City and the Pentagon in 2001 or recent acts in Paris, is not only a threat to victims of terrorism themselves but also to people's freedom, as the examples prove. That threat is revealed by government response under the cover of public fear. By using computer technology, not only new opportunities for good works are created but also more and more opportunities for secular authorities to get hold of society. If powerism continues to be popular, as is the case today in Hungary, France, and even in the United States, we need to ask ourselves not only about our safety regarding terrorism but also about our safety against the powerism itself. I know better than to say who has any comment on the Internet, but they sometimes say, in my opinion, by permission of the president: Those who sacrifice their freedom for safety are both worthy and will lose both.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u6	V.E.G. President. I'm going to talk to you about our public defense system, our response system, and like what. paritaprevir Óttarr Proppé made an earlier effort to commend all the agencies involved in organizing the national responses and the equipment for well-worked jobs. A number of people are involved, so there is a great need for much coordination, cooperation, and solidarity. These factors can be said to have outstanding results in this case. A U.S. Marshal agreed with the national police chief yesterday over an inexplicable stage in the country because of a storm. Everyone was well - informed about the situation and was conscious of what was coming, perhaps in danger of security. What may be most important in this regard is the reaction and the discussion and the experience that the public defense system is working. Not by default. It also does not default to realize how well the information system works and exactly how well the work is. We experience a strong sense of urgency as weather conditions and information are being maintained where the situation is constantly assessed, whether in the World Guards, the Weather Room, or the Road Building. The media, whether on television or on radio or on the Internet, should not be forgotten. Of course, the rescue forces are invaluable and volunteer work as it was yesterday, some 700 people working all over the country, of course, along with the police and other reactants everywhere, with equipment that all worked to protect the safety of citizens and possessions. It was a perfectly exemplary, respectable president, that's a way of doing things that you owe and respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u7	Mr. President. Bouncer, the governor of the Lands Bank in a recent interview. Furthermore, he says that homes have good status, poor unemployment, high level of money, high economic interest, and debt, or very good words. Is this the reality facing all the people in the country? No, I don't think so, far away. He further says: "The crisis is over, and we are living in a good time. How good it is that some can lean backwards and run away from the ice! The land bank is owned by our people, 98% owned by the State, but it appears that many times it is a state in the state, and there are no social obligations or any understanding of the status of those who are bent on their feet. He has recently read many branch offices throughout the country. It's the whole community thought of that town. The land bank is making money for the state funds, some 26 billion this year. There would be things to do for those less lenient in society, to build up the welfare system, and to make good use of it. However, the government chooses not to do so. The National Bank has, along with other financial institutions, been rebuilding various companies on the new social security number of companies that have had to cancel large amounts of money, even to the same owners and thus support social security. The tremendous contribution that has been made to society since that government began to reflect in the words of the bank manager mentioned above. It's not a good one for everyone, and it's as if it's thought, both in this government and in the banking institutions, that others may eat it as outcast. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u8	V.E.G. President. In the morning, the U.S. Penitentiary Department of Money is going to report a management interest. My good partner sent me some questions that I would like to ask and they are directed to the bank manager. It says, by permission of the President: In the last week, on Thursday, December 3, 25 of the Council of the European Commission decided to lower the control rate by 0.1%, down to less than 0.3%, to stimulate inflation. In October 0.1% of the ECB population was reported to have a consistent index value of consumer prices. The same indicator for Iceland measured the inflation rate in October as 0.34%, based on the Haust Office information, which appeared as 0.4% on Eurostat's website. The Eurostat website also shows that the increase in the standard index price was comparable in Iceland to that in the Netherlands, considerably lower than in Sweden, and in Norway it is 2.4%. In Denmark, however, this change was 0.2% in the entire year. The reason why I draw attention to this is that a money policy committee uses an inflation measure from the Habitat, which evaluated inflation 1.8% in October. It is measured in a way other than the uniform index used by ECB. The question is, Why does the traveling bank and the money policy committee value inflation that is not so different, i.e. In this way, 0.11% and 0.34%, respectively, and believe that 0.34% of inflation requires control growth of 6.25%, which is the interest number presented in a foreign news release to a local news agency when depositors in our neighboring countries count, including with a greater increase in housing prices and a greater increase in the consistent index of consumer prices, it is necessary to keep operating growths around 0%. Then you also say: Have the Federal Committee and the Money Policy Committee determined who the management interest would be if a uniform index price was used to assess in Iceland's inflation? Why does the Secret Bank use a different standard of direction when it comes to direct growth than the nations around us? Does the bank manager believe that the ECB Council of 25 people has a lower understanding of the effectiveness of money policy than the SI 5 people? If not, why does Iceland have a control interest of 6.25% but minus 0.3% in ECB? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u9	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the members of the council who have praised the road and the rescue forces and the police for a swift march in the storm yesterday. It is exemplary that roads and territories are shut down so that all can be safe at home as were most of us senators last night, thus helping create a safe environment. I'd like to talk about the river of the sea in the Valley of Vicodin. Yesterday and night, it was not the least that has been the case with a desert park set up in 2011 that has, in fact, saved the beach and thus the space from being destroyed. Next year, 40 million will be added. K. to build up and fix this garden. In fact, it was very damaged in the night, and that is bad news for the Moriscos and the Vikings. Lately, there has been a lot of sand on the east side of the sander beneath the Viking bowl, where tourists come every day. From the Valley of Myr is the fifth most crowded resort in Iceland. It is usually a day of 1,9520 buses. There are five or six hotels open all year and restaurants, so there's a lot to fix on the beach. I would like to encourage the proper authorities and the Vega program that, as soon as the situation is checked at the Viking beach, what you can do about it. Today, huge banks of man's height wash out from the melancholy sand that has been severed in the coastal sand. This is an important matter in the number of tourist attractions and in the valley of Moriscos. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u10	A respectable president. We were reminded last night that the person is embarrassed in the face of the forces of nature, as have been mentioned by other members of the council today, and we were more often able to meditate on the wealth we have, our American community, on our reactions, on public defenses, on the police, and especially on the rescue forces of the country. Within the reservation, thousands of people work in 186 members of the community as volunteers in public and security. They work hard, train, and specialization that in some cases are so professional and specialized that they compare themselves with the best that happens in the world. We have in Landsbourg, a heavy security net; air support crews, rescue ships, storm crews, mountain rescue teams, divers and search crews, outside emergency departments and juvenile activities, to name just a few things. So one of these farms, Iceland's Rescue Hounds, is 35 today. This team specializes in searching for missing persons by means of dogs, both avalanche dogs and in international searchs. The training of the Tetragrammaton and people in this countryside is time - consuming and demanding, but it has long since proved its value, as was best evident in the avalanches of the Westlands 20 years ago. Thus, rescue teams work throughout the country all weeks of the year, only in times of need and attention. Mr. President. It's a resource in our community. These people's knowledge and experience, but especially the mental attitude that some politicians and I encountered, sometimes set a good example here in our day - to - day duke and character.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u11	Mr. President. ▪ Tell me how a community respects the right of possession, and I'll tell you if it's good or bad society, one man once said. Then another said, 'Please tell me whether the people have freedom of expression,' and then I'll tell you if it's a good community. Those who said this both had a strong point. But there is something else that I think is a good society, that is how the children and especially those who need support because of social conditions, economic pressures, or disability. It is by far the best measure on whether a community is good or bad, and I think a lot of Icelanders agree with it. I also think the majority of Icelanders want children to be well supported by social, difficult situations, and I don't have much emphasis on doing what is possible for all children in this country to get as equal as possible and best possible and not having to endure discrimination because of their circumstances. Pension funds began last January to cut down the pension fund in terms of juvenile pensions paid by public security. The change is not based on the law or on the changed approved pension fund; it is only a modified project. It is especially evident in the children of microenergy pensioners, and children are being further affected by the ability to enjoy what children should enjoy in this community. Mr. President. Just where are we going? Do we not really want all children in our country to have opportunities that are equal regardless of their parents'economic situation? Cutting down the pension money to micro-energy pensioners from pension funds for child - welfare insurance bills is a contributing factor. Parents who have little to play will be less able to give their children what other children in Icelandic society enjoy, and the consequences are obvious and known and so ugly to children. They cannot be involved, get out, and even become isolated. It's not a good society that wants to go that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u12	A respectable president. A recent report on the market surveillance study of the fuel market, called primary assessment report, was published. In that report a number of laws adopted here at the General Assembly in 2013, law No. 40/2013, about renewable fuels. This law forces sales of fuel to mix fossil fuels known as ethanol and biofuels made from wheat, corn, and other foods into diesels and gasoline. The environmental benefits of this incorporation are uncertain, but the legislation has cost billions of homes since they were approved. The report of the Contestant Commission, published on page 5. 274 to this rule, by permission of the President, However,... can limit competition or active activity as a barrier to new partners. There is, therefore, evidence that the law contributes to a competitive environment and also includes access block for new partners who intend to offer simple products. In this regard the importance of performing a so-called competitive assessment should be reimbursed according to the No. 2/2009. Despite the introduction of European Community legislation through the EEA Treaty, the Icelandic government has made room for these products, i.e. how to achieve the full EU target of 20% of energy in general will be of renewable origin At the beginning of this fall council, we concluded. Senators Frosti Sigurjónsson, Ragnheiðurðindóttir Ríkharðsdóttir and Willum Þór Thor Þórsson Þorrsson present a bill at the World Council that unsaves the sales of renewable fuel for the year 2020. The time to 2020 we would like to use to extend a permanent discharge from this EU directive, such as the one Liechtenstein has already received. I expect the President to take special advantage of the subject's bill as soon as Christmas is off, and that the General will join together to rid himself of the competitive barriers established by these bodies of Congress in 2013.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u13	A respectable president. I would like to agree with the thanks the respondents have been sent from this platform today to the institutions involved in the arrival of the storm that raged yesterday and the release of the items that were given to them by the storm. What distinguishes all those parties is their selfless attitude in all things. It is not the wages or the equipment that drives them but the motivation and need to do good for citizens. I think we must always be diligent in thinking how we at the Council can help these people and show them a little interest in helping them to do their job. There's a lot of energy going on here. It is important that your energy is useful in solving their tasks rather than in fighting the system. That is why I would like to mention one group that may not be often in the discussion. It's called out - of - hospital care, our ambulances, who are always being given additional assignments. It has developed so that health services in the country have been contracting with increased expertise in medical science. There has been an increased demand for those serving outside the hospital. They have also done much in their affairs and have often been able to provide better services than hospitals staff. It can be integrated. That is where we need to consider equipment, education, and training. The services and security of citizens can be greatly increased without much financial cost. With a little interest and work with these partners, we can make major and important changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u14	A respectable president. During the next weekend, my attention was drawn to me for building a house. Then I remembered that Iceland is an expert in the recycling of houses. That's how Iceland's board of directors lives in an old decimal building, but the crew has already been changed. The Home Office is in an old potato vault, the art collection is in an icehouse, the National Archives library is in a deli, and it existed, or at least The idea of setting up a collection of national mines in carnivores was developed. It is also so with a private company that they are being reused. So it was that Iceland's Bank was put in a freezer, but the director of the freezer told the bank manager whose foundation was in Iceland, and with the permission of a president, I'm going to say, "I'm going to say, "I'm going to say right after the boss of the story, "and I'm going to say, 'Go to hell you and your bank.' The bank ended up in the freezer and went under. A century - old drawing is about to be taken up to build here on the General Buildingfield, and this is not a renovation of houses but a new use of drawings. I just want to say that architecture certainly reflects the time when you build it, and it's based on use values at any given time, and then we don't take 100-year-old drawings. I say, as the psalmist of old said, in the song of Steinn Steinar's King: 'House Master of the Kingdom!' No more! A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u15	A respectable president. All I want to do is come on the weather that went through the country yesterday. First, though, I want to agree with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said that the budget in general and that smaller things were unfortunately short of time to complete its committee and work. It has been this way over the years, and it has been too long that the smaller part has been too busy to work its committees and so on. I hope, though, that this may make some changes when a new financial bill is being developed. But I want to agree with this. It was also this way during the last term and inconspicuously. We can certainly pull ourselves together. But as for the weather that went over the country yesterday, I'd like to agree with those who have come up here and been reporting on it and thanking for the good work done by a lot of people; the public defenses, the Weather Service, the avalanches, the electric carers who are still working on the weather, the Vegas, the police, the State Radio, and the rest of the media, and last but not least the rescue forces in the country. I'd like to say that I'm quite convinced that the public is very pleased with the services of all these parties and how it was done this past 24 hours, and we saw that everyone was paying attention to warnings, no one was on the move, etc. But there is good reason to take up a general talk about the public defense system and the volunteer work that many are doing in the rescue forces. There is good reason to ask, " Is it not reasonable for tourists to consider that in order to form rescue teams, they get a share and an added share in the income stocks created by tourism? ' We have this tremendous public defense system, which is largely based on the volunteer work of rescue teams, and we are expected to look for ways to promote and strengthen it. This is a discussion that I feel that we members of the Parliament and the government need to take in increasing numbers, how we can strengthen and improve the survival of rescue teams and others who perform such volunteer work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u16	Mr. President. We vote on budgets for 2015, which best indicate some sort of redundancy because of the lack of government planning. When we prepared budgets for 2015, the less part offered suggestions that each person saw the need for funding in order to perform and the top of the management sector offered them suggestions but is now offering suggestions for the same project. These are poor work, Mr. President, and the abuse of the role of funds. The minority suggests the only changes in terms of the elderly and the poor. We wish for her to make a roll call.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u17	Mr. President. Here we are doing something that is not in accordance with the budget. Large joints are being added that were anticipated but not unpredictablely, as the funds are meant to go on. This summer's road to travel, the European Commission's Fund, all of which the minority pointed to the budget and became aware of it, and this is the second year in which a tourist market enters a budget with no money. The majority of the items do not suggest recovery to the sensibilities of the elderly and micro-organization donor, and thus the smaller part proposes a suggestion in that situation. But in view of the way this is done here, we declare the responsibility for the government and sit behind us in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u18	A respectable president. I agree with what's been said. Investment laws, they're treated freely. An example of this is the travel fund, which is repeatedly added to the budget. You may have forgiven this once, but once we have repeatedly pointed out this, you must say, as it is, that this is not a responsible treatment. I don't think it's gonna change anything if it's the best. The financier has set up a budget and reported this plan at some point during spring, it doesn't make the situation any better. So, for the most part, we'll be sitting by this vote, and I'd like to encourage people to examine the changes in the memory of the part thoroughly and vote with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u19	A respectable president. The following is a chance for a body of elders to return similar increases, remuneration rates to pay, according to collective labour agreements. This is a very important vote, and it will be followed in all the community. In this budget, the administrative body also acts and decides to correct a financial error. So he would have been in a position to correct the problem at the Land Hospital and meet the National Hospital with sufficient donations for their changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u20	A respectable president. We'll vote on the change proposals that have been made in the budget for 2015's budget. More than 3 billion dollars are involved. The amount received on the missing expenses, which are secondary to contracting agreements from public employees. That's why it's going to have to come into the budget right now. The greater part of the budget board that now operates has always spoken for the use of funding laws to include only the unexpected events of the year. We've considered these changes and we believe that they fall largely under that definition, but otherwise I refer to the committee and suggest that the Senate will agree to the modification proposals of more part.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u21	A respectable president. On the contrary, it is the amount of money that counts in this bill. If not paid from the Lands Bank to 26 billion, in 2015 a government fund would be fired. The rest of 21 billion is lower than the profit of the Lands Bank. With good reason for all members of the Parliament to keep this in mind, it exposes the incorruption that is now becoming a hallmark of the government of government, especially on the income side.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u22	Mr. President. There is more than the financial resources of tourism that the government has had to estimate. There is a peak of 15.8 billion less than 8,21 Arlations from financial institutions, and mainly due to a lack of estimated interest from the Bank of America at the end of the last year of the year, an estimated 18 billion dollars. In time, in view of the obtaining of the bank, and according to the will of his rulers, that he should pay a treasure of the kingdom for three hundred billion in his gain. And the same thing is to repeat itself in the budget now, that I can best see it. I could have an understanding of the highest. The financier would rather underestimate this income than try to protect himself from spending, but this is not a good methodology, it is not a beautiful resemblance to bring the same team years after the year of balking miscalculation, either on the income gate or on the operating side, as the two clearly illustrate. V.E.G. The secretary of finance knows well that it is the product of the bank and the economy that controls the way it operates to make money that provides an approximate accurate number. This is the anniversary of three quarters, and of course, there is no need to repeat the game one more time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u23	Mr. President. We're paying votes for extra money for a tourist position, aren't we? A similar proposal was made here. The minority suggested, in fact, only about 600 million. K., and the governor's suggested this in December. It did not take weeks for the government to propose that the government agreed, saying that it was necessary to add funding to the problem in those places. Mr. President. This describes not only poor financial management but, for the second time, the lack of government policy in the affairs of tourism, and this is a mess, pardoning the language.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u24	President. This is where we pay an additional vote for a tourist attraction. As we have seen, last year's budget was high enough to make money. It's not just that it's a matter of personal taste; it's simply clear in financiers what's the role of budgeting. This is not part of the work to include budgets and, in fact, reflects complete financial rights, and it provides a fine example of how poor an outsider is in this category, both in the case of the government and also in the case of the government. A legal committee that can be much more than a part of a legal committee, when appropriate. But when it comes to this sort of release, people talk like it's a small matter. Here we are talking about a hundred million dollars.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u25	A respectable president. It's amazing how these joints happen over and over again. I haven't felt that much. The Minister of Industrial Affairs is so overwhelmed with assignments that it should not be able to control this category, the tourism industry here. I'm disappointed that my team is coming over here again and again. It is not a good witness to the present government now, when we are about to accept laws on public finance, in which we plan ahead and plan things and control things, people don't even control one small team called the Commission Fund of Tourists.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u26	V.E.G. President. This is where we vote to contribute to the tourism fund to a level of less than 900 million. K. Come straight from the state fund, which is the reding of the government after the Supreme Court. In fact, a travel minister brought a gene band and ruined a bill that died during birth, was killed by the greater part of the government before it was presented, and gave up a so - called natural pass. Good riddance. It is such a failure to come and make income, as we all agree on, by tourists to put into the tourist market. Since the last term, 100 k has been in force. A monthly allowance, which is applied in a certain way, may, of course, be made better by the experience, which yields some 300 million. K. If it was raised to 500 bucks. On average, it would give 1.5 billion that could be divided at tourist locations as well as in rural areas. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I would have wanted this number away and seen this money coming from the government funds to the Land Hospital. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u27	The President reminds me of why. Congress is required to vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u28	Mr. President. There is nothing in itself to be done in this category yet, unless another committee has been established. We're on the verge of policy. It has been the third year of this government, and there is nothing that can be promised to happen in the seminary. There is no current policy, no ideas have been born, but to add extra allowances or to throw money into the air. Little sources have been taught in many parts of the country that they are not prepared for their projects and that this is why the funds could not have been divided. So, what can be said about the federal institutions, or places, of government itself that do not have their own privileges? Is this because there is no plan? Who's to blame? Is it not the government to blame, which is completely aimless in this group? Once again, neither with the communities nor with anyone else have there been any transfer done, how society should include the strength of the tax saved by the fee of the balance. [[The president calls.]] It is hard to see that the group of paintings is always being financed afterward. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u29	A respectable president. There's a vote for 20 million here. K. An additional contribution to the military business of the country's prisons. How happy we are that much of the legal committee suggested this! It is here on a Senate document, and it is hoped that as many members of the council will vote for it. As it should be noted, an additional 45 million are entering 2016 budget for the imprisonment business. A greater proportion of the legal committee now contributes, with a few days apart, new 65 million into the prison business, which is happy for this year's discussion of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u30	V.E.G. President. Here comes a team with regard to the road model. In the bill such as this, there is only a small amount of work to be done, and on the other hand, for winter services, and there is no use. However, this is all too small because the 1,300 million that the government proposes to make up for some decision in the summer are in addition to virtually nothing. For example, regarding transport conditions, it can be said that there are virtually no developments in the country unless the decisions made in the last government have been made. Worse, they are not even funded. As an example of construction at a Norwegian tunnel, it is, under poor financial circumstances, that the contractor has been working for a dosed budget in the middle of the year and has had to lend a trust fund for the rest of the project. A respectable president. This is close to adding nothing to world record or Iceland record in transport outlets. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u31	Mr. President. There is no need for many people to comment on the deterioration of the performance of this transport government, which has no transport plan, and is in position for the third year. Thus, transport projects are randomly provided through financial provisions. This suggests a change in the budget of the state's funds for transportation by 1.1 billion dollars. because markets of income stocks yield more. Naturally, the road is enjoying it. It is not now becoming the big enterprise that the Kingdom itself contributes to increasing transport. This was a natural failure, and it was clear to all that the law, as it was closed, would not work out just because there was a need for winter service and maintenance. This performance performance status cannot be given in whole but a decline score. It's a random sports administration. Transport's worth better than being in the hands of a team who's doing this kind of work. It is very sad for a council and a nation to see this, as urgent and urgent as their need is now everywhere. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u32	Mr. President. I have to agree with those who have spoken here. No transport plans have been submitted by the current government, and we are here in the third year, the ideal period of more than halfway, and we are well aware of that. As we have seen, the market markets are higher, which makes it possible to give more money even if they have to be much larger, but they also have to be on some level, not just hippos and out into the air. Of course, the Winter Service has been abdicating for a very long time. But the accountingbix here fell to further increase the negative money of Vega's own money. Most people may not understand the negativeness of their own money, for it is not to be negative, but it means that the road is to raise more debt to a government fund, which is, of course, unacceptable because negative personal funds have been taken into account or rather, rather, a project that was not meant to enter into these teams. But most of all, it's a failure plan for the Vega project, and therefore, as we see in the forward financial bill of the next year, a completely subsidized road system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u33	A respectable president. The General Assembly is the advice of the elderly and the desperate. The Council of Communicators has determined the number of commercial growths since the last spring, as was the case with most other groups in the community. Now, as with the experience of the elderly, so is the case with legislatures, so is the case with the general council. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u34	A respectable president. The fact that they live in the oldest groups as well as microorganisms is very clear of one nation. What we're suggesting here is that these groups will have the same elevations as with the generals and others who have been able to improve this year. That's all. Groups of 170 you've got. K. by tax to survive on, groups that receive 190 points. 217s. K., these groups are looking to us and asking us to improve their terms. And what is the greater part of the government doing here? He is denying these groups for the rise from the same time that he himself has received. Do we feel that this is justice? No, it's not. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u35	V.E.G. President. Many times I've been here in the speech program for the last loss to discuss the matter that is being voted on, i.e. the suggestion that the elderly and the desperate will be reimbursed, such as all others in society, including members of Parliament, Ministers, and others with whom the advice has been given. I can't believe that the greater part of the government is not going to take the initiative that elderly and desperate ones are at the same table as others. We're talking about this right now, as we're making budgets for this year, and it looks like, according to paper, 22 billion bucks. The rest is on them. I'm going to predict that when the year is settled, it will be, not 22 billion, but even 32 billion that will be left over at the end of the year. In effect, it is incomprehensible why the administrative issue is not involved in making this reconciliation and bringing this increase to the elderly and the desperate like everyone else does. However, I live up to my belief and hope that between 2 and 3. if you consider this matter. I feel that the chairman of the budget board mentioned this, and I've been in a radio interview with one of theizers who said it was on the table at the highest level. Secretary of finance. I'm waiting for them to be removed from the table and brought here to the council. A respectable president. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u36	Mr. President. Here we recommend that the smaller portion of the body be restored from May 1 to this year's May, to the elderly and disabilityd population not to be left alone. All other groups of society have been negotiating a higher salary than the elderly and desperate ones should be left behind. We do this because it is a great deal of justice. A grown man at Isafjorda contacted me yesterday, and he was very depressed. He has done hard work since his bar mitzvah, and today he receives 127 of you. K. From his pension fund, and from his 60s. K. ... fromPrivacyPresidents. That is how we live as older people in our country. This is what we offer to older people who have worked hard all their dog-and- cat-time, only this money, 187 of you. K. per month. We're not supposed to feel that way, so I trust the senators will vote for this proposal. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u37	Mr. President. The rule on social security is that we should protect the benefit of pensioners. I'm sure they will. Parliaments who accepted the law in their day thought that they were doing just that. Care should be taken to ensure that the ideals of the elderly and the disability do not regress. What is being suggested here is that this group will rise by 10.9% from May 1 this year, as if they were getting in the public market that has the lowest salary. If the government fails to approve of this, the right management is to keep older people and microptuits under the minimum price. [[Let's face it: Have you forgotten what...]] What's the point, Mr. President? I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u38	A respectable president. It is utterly unacceptable, when the land is rising again, and the state's improvement in years, that at that time it should not begin to correct the deficient part of groups like the elderly and the desperate. What, then, if they are put last, at the end of the row? There's room. We have the situation and in a civilized society we should use that space to settle the terms and rights of the groups whose feet are standing rather than further increase in in inequities and inequities. But what is it that the government is doing on this budget bill? It is setting priorities in behalf of the few and the rich at the expense of the small and the many. It is totally unacceptable when we ourselves are accepting repeated corrections and all other community groups, not aged and desperate. [[The president calls.]] It's just unacceptable, and of course I'm saying yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u39	A respectable president. Hv. The chairman of the legal committee spoke of it just before that the budget was being handled with an unpredictable raise. Similarly, this adjustment is seen in the prospect of enjoying these unexpected changes in dress and grooming. It's not a radical suggestion. On the contrary, it is a spontaneous proposal for simple justice. It's kind of a great honor to say yes to the proposal, and I encourage the whole assembly to hide behind it, at least to those who have not already paid votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u40	Mr. President. This motion is almost consistent with a resolution adopted at a meeting held last November 21st by the National Institute of Micromanism, and it is so self - determination that it is to be destroyed. I believe there have been a number of sad experiences in those two and a half years since that election season began, but I think it's a absolute minimum if a Senate place is going to leave these people alone once and for all. The governor said it's a good-looking thing, and the government's been very busy hitting its chest and saying that everything is on the rise. Yet they will leave this group behind. Mr. President. It's shameful, you know. It's a shame. I challenge the council members who will vote against this to go out and meet these people and listen to their history. She's not pretty. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u41	V.E.G. President. I come up here to say yes to the fact that senior citizens and micro-energy pensioners receive comparable increases to pay people in Iceland and we hear under the advice of the agreement, that social security is turning back to May 1st, 2015. What is the cost of this action involving social justice? It costs 6.6 billion. With these extras, we're just accepting the change to over 20 billion. Of these, the exact increase in government funds due to worth taxation and other taxes is on trade with trade and services. This is to make up the increase in food tax, the largest affected by the lowest income, resulting in the 6.6 billion we need to be equal to all the people of this country. I'm surprised to see that the Prosecutors and the Independence Party don't intend to join us in the smaller part of this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u42	Mr. President. Almost all workers in the labour market in Iceland have received a contract in general contracts with the results of a court of law and now, at the latest, with the Commission decision. Most of them had these increases between March 1 and May 1 or returned to that time. Refuseing this adjustment is the attitude of leaving this one group behind, that there will be no compensation within the year according to what almost everyone else has received in the country. I don't see how to defend that attitude from the ideas of equal or justification. I don't understand the government not to give back at least those better things within the year but rather take the criteria, whether they should specifically refer to an increase in the lowest salary or the average remuneration rate. But to do both, to bring in no dressers and older ones within the year, and then to have similar increases and the lowest wages rise by the next year is an amazing crippling experience for this group. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Perhaps they are students who are just as gray from the government, if any, except for the elderly and the desperate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u43	The Senator says?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u44	I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u45	V.E.G. President. We vote on whether pension workers should be reimbursed, just as most community groups have received their sums back this year. The Council has already ruled us as sitting here in the past, and now it's time for us to see that group, i.e. A pensioner, who is the most premeditated for living in poverty, also gets his compensation over time. Of course I'll say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u46	President. One of the UN's new sustainable goals is to eliminate world poverty. The directors of the Iceland government were there, claiming to support the destruction of poverty on earth. Now we have the opportunity to reduce poverty in Iceland. We know that 10% of Icelanders don't make ends meet every month, and we also know that a large percentage of these 10% is just elderly and desperate. They don't have a meeting in the Karp House, they don't have a meeting with a state club, they don't have a meeting with any other person. We're in touch with this group. The reunion is now. If not right now, when should we improve the benefit of this group? The voters against this proposal are to vote by maintaining poverty in Iceland. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u47	V.E.G. President. All research confirms this in communities will lead to better and more righteous society, a society of people who are well - pleased and happy with one another. By not agreeing to this proposal, the General Assembly is promoting indiscriminate and thus disgruntled in the community. The Council thus supports the fact that some groups are left behind while others are on the move to catch their weapons after the collapse. It is unacceptable that the Council will place some in a poverty trap while others can continue with life and benefit from improved benefits and benefits in the land. I say self-improvement, yes, in this process of change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u48	V.E.G. President. It is an ancient chord sound that we now hear in this hall, where members of the board of directors feel compelled to overcome a change in proposal coming from the government position, no matter what its contents. I would like to direct it to the greater part of the world whether it is advisable to reconsider that position. It's not over yet. There is one more discussion. We all know that sassies are rampant in Iceland, and I think that in our hearts all of us feel that there's too much there, and this injustice is growing. Of course, there should be priorities for all of us, but the minimum requirement is that all of us make one move when it comes to the recovery of these weights. That's what it's all about. This will cost 6.6 billion dollars. To do so. We are told that the payoff will be 22 billion. We've heard the bank's interest rates that go into government funds. This money exists. [[Up front.]] I encourage the council and the majority of the members of Congress to reconsider their position before the situation will be resolved forever. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u49	A respectable president. Two factors call attention to this vote. Not one member of the board of directors gets out of line, and none of them rely on here to back up the position of the government. Why is there to be a misjudgment for the general wage in the country? Why should a pensioner who is unable to negotiate his own profits be less suitable than a paid person? Perhaps it could be substantiated if there were times of distress here, but in the past governments, the lowest benefits of social security were never diminished, and in 2011, when special low-pay agreements were made just as now, in the middle of a year, in the middle of a year, just as we do today, in the social Ministry of the Guðbjartur - day name Hannesson, the social security benefits were increased according to the global benefits of a labour agreement on the middle of the year 2011. [[The president calls.]] The examples are light. You can do this. It's the right thing to do. I'm a member of one board of directors who's afraid to argue why not do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u50	A respectable president. I understand it's just a good-looking baby. I don't quite understand, since the council seems to be turning down this adjustment proposal. This is an enormous amount of fairness, the elderly, and the poor deserve it, these benefits. It's their salary, and it's supposed to be repetitive, like our reward. I think it's a sad moment. I'm sad that the Council is going to reject this adjustment that has so much to say about society. How can it be on your conscience to say no to this adjustment? I'm just asking. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u51	President. Now I enter this vote on short notice as a deputy and there's no explanation on this magazine, but the reasoning I hear from members of the council is the ones I expected. I don't think there's any argument about saying no. I agree with the aged Páll the son of Árnason, that I would like to hear why this shouldn't be over again as with us. Several members of the government have had the opportunity to explain their no, but themselves have. The secretary of finance will explain his vote, so he may be able to speak only for the entire administrative sector. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u52	A respectable president. I'm not going to do what's happened before. I think it's important that we treat people who have turned their backs on the community, older citizens, in a way that gives them the same elevations as others and the poor. This is just in view of the growing inequities in this world. They're not people with strike rights. It cannot be fought for its terms in any way other than the members of our council. We have repeatedly received e - mails asking us to meet those requirements of those who are so for granted. We have a chance to do this. We're putting people in a poverty trap. It is important to think of people who have less than 170 to 200 of you. K. The pay per month to survive do not have a decent life; I think that's safe to say. So I agree with the encouragement that the members of the greater part reviewed their stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u53	A respectable president. When a new government began in the spring of 2013, we put it first to reduce the decline that reformers would have had to suffer in the past government. Right away, in the summer of 2013, we removed the rule that basic pensions were reduced from pension income. We also went up the holiday market because of the employment of albino pensioners and autopayers for their professional disability-employed pensioners. We've extended the cross-reactivity agreement because of improvements in social security and pension funds. We dropped from January 1, 2014, the decrease in income insurance to 38.35%. We went up a vacation goal because of a pension fund. This has resulted in a 7.4 billion improvement today from year to year. In addition, improvements in accordance with laws each year have been improved as prices or wages have increased and will now rise by 14 billion per year in accordance with law. [[Foreground on: No.]] The increase in reformers has also been considerable during this period, and that is why in this terms the law and other changes have been made to bring down the former impairments, resulting in an improvement of 26.8 billion in the next year. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is, can we accept...]] Farmers are rising by 9.7%, about 14.2 billion, that is in accordance with law. Achieving progress is being made to reform candidates... [[The president calls.]] [[To the point, pleased with 170 you. K.?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u54	A respectable president. There's a table for a bar, and this amount is not very high in the big context. I just want to remind you that this government has been making a transition between the middle-class and the upper middle class that has returned to the 5 of you. K. every month that does not change to or from timepoint. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I'd also like to recall that in 2003, the General Act of Penitentiary on Personal Pension rights, a great deal of privileges, which were better removed during the last term. There are laws for themselves and their pension rights here, and we find it strange that trust in the U.S.A. is low. I'm disappointed that so many in the top of the board are saying no, in fact, all of them are still saying no. So we're not doing anything, but we're trying to keep fighting in this matter and making adjustments to the budget as well. I say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u55	A respectable president. So I'll start with the formality. I say yes. Here we are simply voting on whether those who have the worst in the community have to live on 170 of yours. K. In a month, you should enjoy the benefits as well as those that have become a workforce. It's just a vote. Should they sit down or not? I've been asked by a member of the Management Board how we are going to finance this project and have been a little able to participate in some form of propulism by supporting this proposal. I'd like to refer that to the fatherhouses. We vote on the priorities of how we protect our money. The present government has given up a steady schedule of decisions that we in the short future have not supported, up to tens of billions. The government has spent tens of billions of dollars to lift the debt of the richest individuals in our society and then can't afford it. [[Take it up: wrong.]] [[The president calls.]] This is a very bad priorities, and it basically describes to me not just bad priorities but bad morals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u56	V.E.G. President. The chairman of the budget committee recently said that with the changes in the more part's proposals, the planned expenses were being addressed. That's exactly what this point is about. This team is raising about 3.5 billion dollars. So it goes to less than 10 billion bucks. due to unscheduled expenditures for collective agreements. From this point on, the less than 10 billion will be allowed to fly to the states to pay back a pay raise. So here it is being done for anyone other than the elderly and the desperate, who we just voted for earlier, and the adjustment was made with five votes. A respectable president. I also call attention to the fact that these suggestions are all approved by a minority of members of the council here. I would also like to draw attention to what is quite interesting that there are only two ministers at the vote. This vote is a clear example of the treatment of the greater part by increasing these expenses to everyone other than the elderly and the desperate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u57	Mr. President. The government is flogging children in the country. This takes away 600 million because the threshold has not been reduced. Children's benefits are impaired by 200 yards. K. per month. Let us remember that when the food tax, i.e. The valuable tax was increased from 7% to 11%, and counter measures were reported, including child reforms and interest improvements, were spoken of as 1.4 billion. No, these counter measures are not to be returned. The government is now after the baby settlement. How low can you go, topv. Secretary of finance? I'm just going to hope that this is going to be retracted. That's 600 million on child support this year. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u58	V.E.G. President. When a budget bill of 2015 was submitted, quite a number of candidates felt sorry for the increase in food taxes. How were they bought to follow that rise? With an increase in child - rearing, among other things. [[Up front.]] The percentages of child reforms were not changed, so children's families have been betrayed this challenge, and as a result, the High Priests, who were so costly in the last budget, have been betrayed. So they are happy to take it and are now going to agree to this child - rearing process. Mr. President. This is shameful. I suggest that the more part sees its own worth in bringing these 600 million between the debates in the budget, between 2 and 3. ... and returning it to children's families who have taken on increased burden on food tax. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[We're in the middle of a family of children.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u59	Mr. President. That's where we got to the same work plan as about child reform. Here the state is pulling back 200 million in interest of the increase in real - estate values and the production of homes has improved as a result of an increase in real - estate assessment. [[The debt penalty.]] But I can't get better. Has real - estate assessments been rising far and wide throughout the country? Is it not only in a certain market area that it has elevated? This government has been struggling to try to fulfill the world's greatest campaign campaign promises that have ever been given based on a debate about reducing homes and other debts but have not yet produced any suggestions for housing for young children in the country. [[Up front.]] It is so painful to see that it draws these 200 million back into the state budget rather than lower the limit to make use of the money that is needed in many places. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u60	A respectable president. It's very normal. The political opposition to criticism and the nature of the matter should be taken into account. But there is something special when people criticize the fact that the homes in the country have improved. [[Up front.]] Adding up is not a goal. If everyone's debt was good, there wouldn't be any compensation. When the interests of families improve, and as a result, there is a lot less recovery, that is good news. Let's hope we see these teams down there because home is better because that's what's happening. This whole hearing thing. A position of government is completely incomprehensible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u61	Mr. President. There is no objection to the growth of the interests of children's families and to the increase in income or income of children in the country. But we're against the fact that the buyer's return is a failure to raise or raise children, and that's what happens here. [[Up front.]] When a person does not move up the revenue threshold in line with the development of the cost, this person's bonus will be back in the form of reduced child reforms and growth reforms. [[Up front.]] That's how the system works, huh? paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson. You shouldn't be talking about these matters unless you have minimal understanding of what is going on here. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] This is the decision to make the better things children have been blessed with during the year go back to less growth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u62	Mr. President. It is by means of growth reform and, in fact, child support, that they are in the budget of each year's estimated size. What we're doing here is that we're moving the year's results into harmony with real-life calculations. Now we know what the grit development was during the year, and as we have seen, the more successful recovery is going to be, the higher the pay raise than we expect. As a result, we do not have to use all the money we expect us to have to use. [[The president calls.]] And when we raised child reforms by 13% at the time, we added the rights of the least of those who had left their hands. Those who complain that this is not fully returned in accordance with a plan are really asking for the difference to be used to those who are best qualified and who have received either child support or interest. [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Up front.]] Because they're the ones who've had it best in the group that we thought they'd get these total sums of money... [[For one thing, what is this nonsense?]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] It's really hard to listen to this, I don't doubt it, but they're up to qualifying. [[Up front.]] Therefore, we need to use less than we planned. That's the way it is. This has resulted in complete return to those who have mentioned from hand to hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u63	A respectable president. I'm sure we're surprised, generals, that there is 80% alibi for the Iceland government of Iceland at a meeting at the tip of the budget of 2015. That there are only two of the ten advisers here to attend the meeting for their own financial contributions is completely unsurpassed. We're looking for a couple of senators, four of whom have listed alibis in the conference office. No cabinet minister has reported any alibis. Of course, it is almost reasonable to believe that the government directors with prime ministers in the head of the states chose to excuse themselves from saying no to the elderly and the desperate, as it were today, that they have decided to have the infantry do that shit for the government. I must ask the President if there are any explanations of the absence of eight out of ten advisers from the Iceland government, which, by the way, makes the budget bill itself possible, is here by the 2nd Environment. with a smaller part of a vote, or 29 votes, which must be said there is no problem indeed. Is there a government meeting that's being held together? Is there some kind of holiday celebration for the Sigmunds of Gunnlaugsson Gunougson in which the others are held? Or have they reported any alibis that are not available here in the office and the President is aware of? Then I want to know. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u64	The president would like to draw attention to the fact that a section of Ministers is with security inside because of their telecommunications in the line of duty. Foreigners.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u65	A respectable president. I recommend a greater part of the legal committee and a higher degree of change. The president read aloud, but it's a way to start with this opinion of writing, as well as with me. paritaprevir Gudle Viðr Þórðarson, why. paritaprevir Haraldur Benediktsson, huh? paritaprevir It's Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, huh? paritaprevir Jóhann Jóhannsson and what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason. Along with the changes made by the President, there is a change from a global and educational committee that states who are included in the list of artist's awards as agreed by the Council of the Council, as per Council Act No. 67/2012, which can be found on a deck. 592 and is in the reading room. A financial committee has discussed the bill following the September 11 issue. The committee has held a number of meetings and has called many visitors to their meetings. These include representatives of 42 rural society, representatives of several parts of the country society and representatives of all recruitments, Habitats, National Reconnaissances, Icelandic Company members, etc. What a joy it is that the government's income increases, and the third year in a row is heading for a low - angle government, the high stage that has been reached after that government began! This increase has been used to increase donations to basic services. There has been some gains in the material where government funds are now thrown out of place, which is fundamental, but there is something in the country about starting subsidies, and interest costs continue to be the third largest annual case according to health care and social security. In view of the greater part, then, there is good reason to maintain the remuneration side of the budget and to use the level of employment and thus increase the financial income so that subsidies may become a top priority in the coming years. Government responsibilities must also be prioritised. The members of the greater part present focus issues that concern several key factors, such as the proposals of a government strategist group, and therefore a united state population and the development of the state's conflict in the years to come. In addition, concern about the development of legal cases is described when treaties are adopted that are burdensome for the business of a rural partner or that include intensive monitoring of a party at the market without the same financial follow-up. It is also possible to worry that in later years the council has gone through issues that are not costly. One such thing went through the council last week, where the non-filled vixile is being sent to a state fund and does not care for the end of this when bills are not measured. Is this the opinion of the person here that costs the costs need for all the bills and recruitment proposals, whether or not they come from more parts or less, i.e. A senator in charge or opposition. I'm referring to the fact that if members of Congress could start to look closely and consider the General Legal Office, which I've put out six times in the council, this problem would be solved and would automatically be replaced by a cost assessment at the time of the Senate's legal office, for it is to determine, for example, the matter of the matter. the value of a prime project and a synonym and whether it will be a constitution and a global agreement. It is long since time for such cost assessment to be done in Congress too, for it is naturally required that Congress cases be taken in place and provided for approved or denied. The current legislation board has stressed that the government's institutions greatly increase the export and use of the most practical means of buying. Special attention should be given to the policy of transport, development and port management. Finally, attention will be paid to the development of the Penitentiary Department's Penitentiary debt, which is rising each year and the rest will be the B-section of the Pension Department of Government Services and the Nurse's Penitentiary Fund in 2027 calling for 20 billion dollars. ten years from now before they go back down. A greater proportion of them points out that there is a growing need for investment in infrastructure, such as transport, and a change in their age combinations calls for increased expenses for aging services. It also puts less emphasis on contributions to university than in the countries we prefer to compare with. This also calls for priorities. The majority of the changes make up a work programme for the bill of over 4.2 billion for increase in income as well as for the change in disintegration 2, i.e. Section A financials, which account for an increase of 8.8 billion. Thus, the total income of the year will be over 700 billion and the cost will be about 690 billion. Thus, the total recovery results in an increase of less than 11 billion, which is more than 4.5 billion lower than expected in the bill. It should be noted that the more dignified president, the greater part of the section, had proposals to raise the interest of the Bank so that the bill could equalize into this discussion. The balance based on the nine - month settlement of the Bank of America's Bank was calculated to a greater portion of legal committees. However, it should be reported that government officials in the Ministry advised the legal committee, which is why the outcome is less relaxed than it really is. The revenues in these changes all increase by 4.2 billion. tax returns to a total of 5.3 billion, with an increase of 5.5 billion. The primary impact of the increase in government income management programme 2015 is the greatest impact on the reassessment. In 2015 there is an increase based on the data concerning the level of energy tax control over the fourth period, i.e. July 31, 2010 August, collection posts until mid-November and current economics on the development of domestic demand. The main national criteria relevant for reassessment of the 2016 programme are private consumption and inflation. It is now thought that private consumption will be higher than inflation, and it is a joy to rejoice that in 2016, inflation is predicted to be less than already done. The payoff is now estimated to be about 8.8 billion. ... ofmanythings. As a result of the impact of collective agreements, a reevaluation of pay bases is required, resulting in less than 5 billion dollars. increase. In fact, in 2015 and as a new projection for 2016, the rate of increase between the years is estimated to be 3.2% and 1.3% reduced from the bill. Overall, prices for prices change from 3.8% to 2.2%, thus reducing the value of 2.3 billion dollars. This is why. Thus, the net effect of pay, prices, and gang changes is 3 billion. to increase. Other changes weigh the weight of the government's many decisions, a total of 4.9 billion dollars. There are 1 billion of these. to assist with the security and refugees, and some 840 million are proposed. K. for a temporary shortening of the waiting list for specific procedures in the medical system, such as coronary intervention, replacement surgery, and ocular stone surgery. There is also 490 million. K. contribution to infrastructure development at tourist locations and 400 billion. K. to promote law enforcement, 250 million. K. proposals for action on climate and 280 million. K. is planned for the marvelous research project on hepatitis C, as stated at the value of 10 billion, only 450 million 2016, 2017, and 2018 will have to be completed and the hepatitis will be eliminated in Iceland. A respectable president. I don't think the government and land hospital deal could have received much too little attention in view of its importance. It is a pivotal agreement, and how happy it is that this agreement is now being made and that the State puts its first contribution into the agreement! As a result, he saves high drug costs for the people who needed these drugs, apart from the fact that these drugs were not enough. It was noted in the autumn as an example, and in fact, because of this, judicial action was brought to the fore, that in the long run, individuals with this disease had to have a transplant of some 100 million per person. Thus, this is an obvious benefit to discuss with all the benefit and best for the benefit of this disease because it results in the success of their quality of life and their prospects as well. In addition, these people in the work market continue to have an enormous side effect on this contract. I say that I am happy for those with this disease and that Iceland will even become the first state in the world to get rid of hepatitis C and eliminate it once and for all. 150 million is suggested. K. goes to the housing fund to strengthen the organization of reservations and 150 million. K. for travel research. Then a proposal is made about 75 million. K. temporary contributions for three years to build a guest room at a local community park. Other government decisions are less important. In addition, the majority contributes to the addition of remunerations in certain judicial categories. There are new 400 million. K. to the seafront and to be specifically discussed in this field of ratings. That's when the extra part suggests another 400 million. K. For the development of airports within the country, the project continued as a large part of the legal committee proposed for 2015, since we believe it is important to increase the number of tourists in the country and especially for those living in the country who have to rely on flights. The majority of us also contribute to 235 million. K. To the roadmaking. We suggest that the telecommunication fund be granted for a period of 200 billion. K. In addition to the budget bill, to speed up the development of communications wood outside the market, which is discussed later in the interview. That's where we're talking about the fiber optic project, which is probably the biggest piece that has ever been paid to connect everyone to the Internet. This enhances the quality of life of those living abroad. Travellers demand to get on the Internet almost anywhere in the country. It has also been suggested that this will help to prevent young people from moving out of scattered areas, so it's a very good project and very forward, and it's more happy to have found a way to put more money in there to speed up the structure. Also, more part makes a bid for 100 million. K. a contribution to health institutions, but there are some suggestions that weigh less. On the contrary to these proposals from the government and the majority of the legal committees, there are reductions in economic and systematic expenditures. It's about 490 million. K. reduction to the Icelandic loan fund, where new borrowers drop and 350 million. K. decrease to employment insurance, where unemployment is now estimated to be 2.9% instead of 3% previously. It is a joy to see that unemployment is still shrinking in this country, and this is like the discussion that created for growth reforms and child reforms before then, when these reform factors are introduced into the bills of each year, we will later see how evolution will be developed. Here's a drop in unemployment rates, which leads to a total of 350 million less on employment insurance. Every time these factors turn down the budget every year, it gives evidence of a better supply in society and, for example, reduce interest rates naturally because people owe less in their housing. Prosperation is nothing more than an obligatory action, making people owe more because it makes them more money, but it seems that some people find it difficult to understand. Similarly, when the payment on employment insurance is reduced, some feel that it is negative, but it is not, in fact, a respectable president, there are positive prospects. I'm going to point out that the committee is divided. I'm going to go over the chapters to explain to those who are following the discussion. Chapter 1 refers to improvements in the state of business of an κ economist group. Here is also a chapter on shopping and tenders, a section on development aid and on burdensome legislation. At the same time, there is a section on transport contributions. There is a section on portwork, communications, development for health care, attention to Land Hospitals, financial resources, and the closing section explaining the increases in pay and pension debt commitments and the effects of collective agreements made with government employees during the year. I don't have time to go to all the chapters, but I'm going to go to those that I've put most emphasis on in my budget work in the fall. I'm going to point to the chapter on burdensome legislation, which hopefully some in the board of directors will be able to apply better. It draws attention to the fact that in the work of a financial committee, many legislation imposes a burdensome burden on rural society, businesses, and business individuals without the result of special intelligence. We take two examples, one on the other, of how taxing laws involved in an expensive journey brought enormous financial commitments without being examined before the hearing went through the council. In addition, we have an example that is much more extensive from a financial point of view, and then we are pointing to examples of burdensome legislation set by the Parliament that creates an expansive contribution for rural society without knowing it, which is a matter for the disabled. After the group of litigators moved from one country to another at the beginning of 2011, it is considered how that group has developed. But then, at the same time, both Congress and the Ministry of Health have imposed burdensome legislation and regulations and have not brought money against the rural community, so that case has actually gone into some trouble. The 43 members of the 43 rural communities, together with members of a unit of rural society, as well as almost all of the Union's members, were talking about that matter, how the contract of the disabled is between the state and the local community. I'm going to go to the doctor's office on the evolution project. Having discussed the past few weeks does not help merely to explain it, and I direct it to people on page 20. 9 of that occasion. It has a very good table showing the development of government funds, such as Hospitals, Hospitals Total, Health Care, Health Centres, Aging Institutes, Insecures, and Management Board and Control. It is very revealing to see what this government has improved in health matters, how the government has acted toward the promotion of health care and the land hospital. In view of the discussion, I would think that for the civilian, this table would be very informative, for the facts speak for themselves and we are to be in touch with the health and the affairs of the Land Hospital, not with emotion. [[Up front.]] I can say that, a respectable president, and say again: I encourage everyone to read the chapter and look at the table on page 6. 9 in the largest part of the list, since contributions to health funding have greatly increased in the time of the present government, as shown in that table, and not enough, but the rise to these issues is far greater than in other government groups. And after a long, long cut-off period, the welfare board, which worked from 2009 to 22013, was directly damaged by the health system inside. But building is fun, and it is fun to be part of a big increase in government budget for health care. I have said that without health care and without the hospital, we would be in a bad state. It is true not only of us who live in this country but also of the tourists who come here and grow in them. When traveling to an island, a tourist must experience his own health safely. From this table, you can see that from 2013's budget to the 2016 budget, the increase to Land Hospital is more than 30%. A respectable president. The rise to the Hospital is more than 30% from 2013 to the 2016 budget. In total, the increase is 34% to hospitals, where hospital hospitals are now initiating the building of hospital hotels at the Land Hospital, when the hospitals as a whole are taken together. In comparison, contributions to the administrative institutions of the Ministry of Health have only increased by 22% at the same time. There, contributions to the Hospital have increased by 30% from 2013 budgets to 2016's budget. With the changed age of the nation, demand for health care will increase significantly and the overall policy of aging, home and household services, short - term space, rehabilitation, and nursing space is urgent. No one has talked as much about this urgent future medical remedy as ever. paritaprevir and vice president of the Board of Shepherds, Guðr Þórðarson, so to speak. These issues are completely planned on the part of a major legal committee and the government, because this is something no one can ignore. The legal policy for 2016 is the government's health minister's policy, and the policy is that in 2016 there will be a focus on health care in the country, on health care. V.E.G. Similarly, Kristján Þór Júlíusson's health minister has said that this has been the result of so much improvement in hospitals and Hospitals that the time has come for health care. I couldn't agree with him. As we know, the main problem in the Land Hospital may not be his business. Rather, it is that at the Land Hospital, people who have better health care as their first stop. Therefore, increased access to health care needs to be made. They are setting up funds to plan for mental - health professionals rather than for those with these disorders to go directly to the Land Hospital. A logical continuation of improvement at the National Hospital is that people have health care as their first stop, thus adding much stress to the Land Hospital. A local hospital is to deal with its vast, complex, difficult tasks, not with health care projects. This must all be understood. The problem of the Land Hospital is the vast number of carpets there, a predatory bed, for the Landsspians have the most expensive resource in this group of languages. These are people who are well - versed in age, who may have been in surgery or who are cranching, can be said, stuck in the Land Hospital because they have nothing to go on. It is even too weak to be at home, does not have caregivers to care for themselves. A nursing home is needed to catch that group. A respectable president. It must be a huge effort to build a nursing home, start with short - term space, and start with home nursing to a greater extent in order to reduce the International Hospital, our National Hospital, so that the squares of the Land Hospital will become faster and more active. I've identified two stoppers that really contain the Land Hospital, and as I said before, it's the most expensive option we have. There's one problem with the nursing home. The rural population needs to establish a nurselike structure. There is a special fund that locals can gather in to build up a room for nursing. Therefore, it is a real disappointment that Reykjavík, for example, is not considering the matter of building a new room here as the largest rural society in the country where most people are. There's also no country around Reykjavík. I encourage the majority of my rural society in the capital area to come together and share in the State's building a handsome nursing home for the next year to meet a mob forecast that has been ahead of us for many years. We know exactly what the situation is. We know about the increase in the future. It's been a while since those numbers were calculated. Now there is nothing to wait for, the communities and the state must gather for relief at the Land Hospital. A respectable president. This was about health issues in general. But here's a chapter on Land Hospital. In recent years, most of these have had good cooperation with the heads of the Land Hospital, and the hospital directors came to the committee for a financial hearing. They have given a great deal of understanding about the need for more funding, as I did in the past, for more of the legal committees since they took up their business in setting priorities for the hospital and other health care services. Significant increases in the hospital budget were made for 2014 and have also been added to that budget, as stated in the opinion of the greater portion since then. I encourage people to look them up. Now a proposal is made about 30 million. K. contributes to the Ministry of Health to finance the analysis and assessment of the operations and activities of the Hospital. In recent years, the managers and staff of the Land Hospital have often been successful in business. The same can be said of health care professionals all over the country and those who are directors of health institutions. Emphasis is clear, and the next year's budget will still be based on good work, especially with the emphasis now on promoting health care in the country. Such results, however, can be achieved only by strict adherence and clear goals. The majority stress the importance of financing to ensure the best possible service. The priorities of the past few years have shown the very will. Still, it cannot be avoided that at any given time the Hospital and other institutions must be within the framework set. It is therefore necessary to hold the land hospital's management within the budget. If such goals are not to be achieved, it is necessary to look for ways that can do them. Priorities and cooperation with other health institutions include these. A greater proportion of the legal committees are willing to work on these. More parts also call attention to projects for which the National Hospital has long been planning, i.e. The implementation of the DRG system for the production of funding to the hospital. The hospital has been working on this project for the past 15 years and feels ready to carry it out. This kind of funding also enables the hospital to compare itself with other hospitals in other parts of the North countries where DRG funding has been practiced for years. A respectable president. I'm going to point out that it was comparable in the Commission list of major contributions, and I have high hopes that the 30 million who are put here to revise the hospital's operations in good cooperation and reconciliation with the highest level. A health minister will be responsible for simultaneous recording of the DRG funding system. Most important, though, it has been noted that there has been a full agreement between the Ministry of Health and the Land Hospital executives, along with a greater proportion of the legal committees, for this inspection, so that everyone will be on the same page in budget work by 2017. This is very important, and I hope that this work will bring us all forward. I'm talking about the managers of the Land Hospital having the same claims as the state on which services should be served and how much that service should cost, since the relations of these parties over the past few years have worked as a bit of money between them. How important and how happy it is, then, that this work is now being started! In the greater part, we feel strongly that the government has a Senate Committee at the beginning of 2016, who is assigned to review various groups of members and funds to them, to cooperate, and to the economy. Good work is being done in the community by members of the various areas of the community that save the country a considerable amount of money. Special attention is given to members of the so - called third sector of well - being. It's a bill's attention at the highest level. The industrial and business secretary has presented a comprehensive legislation on the activities of free partners and expects the more part of it to achieve significant progress in this field. However, the overall view of the budget for these individuals is not sufficient. While some colleagues have made business contracts with the Ministry, others are applying for grants on so - called museum teams and at worst send out requests to the budget board. This need to be performed, and it is of vital importance that the additive effect be positive, especially for those in the service. The greater part of the report is that the assessment of these funds would benefit everyone and that when it completes contracts between parties and the state, it will make the system simpler and more clear to fund money for this good work, which, as previously said, is worked in many parts of the community and will bring relief to the government. Nevertheless, the more part provides suggestions for individual sources of resources in the synopsis, which will be reviewed next year. It should be noted that many of the sponsors of each year often remain substantial and may even be dropped by year. In this way all small allowances may be considered to be contained within existing budgets, and much more will take into account in the future. Here's a chapter on the Ohf Kingdom Radio. which I'm just gonna go over. Most of the time, it is noteworthy that next year, the Kingdom News is scheduled to be Ohf. will make money on the basis of a radio fee, as expected at the time of the present government. At the time, the first government decided to pay the price of the sensitivity of 16,400 K. per person and attorney. When the law was passed in March 2013 by the first government, the radio charge was $18800. and was the policy and the will of the former government that it would reduce with that legalization as early as January 1, 2014, at 16400k. On page 18. 10 is a tablet that explains and shows what the government now operates has made up a large amount of money in RUS. In 2014, when the board of budgets that now operates at that job, the community put a lot of pressure on the idea that if the radio charge went down to 16,400 bucks, it would not be a pleasure. as the previous government had decided. As a result, an agreement was made to turn the bandormin into a period of 19,400 bucks in 2014. and collects from the payers of the radio, all individuals in the country from 18 years to 67 years of age who have certain incomes as well as sharks and noises. During 2015 it should be reduced to 17,800, and in 2016 the legislation established by the left administration would actually be valid in March 2013. It's the law that we're enforcing in the making of more parts. The national radio ohf. had the increase in the radio rate for two years allowed space to balance the operation. I reiterate, a respected president, that it was this government that made a decision on the elevations, in view of the fact that over a two-year period, the State Radio could bring a connection to the business. The table shows that in the last two years, the collection of radio charges increased by no more than 563 million or by less than 18%, much more than in general with government funds. For years the budget has been determined that a section of radio fees goes directly to the state's budget and is therefore not fully set up as a contribution to the Kingdom News. Now this trend is reversed and estimated to be 60 million. K. An increase in the budget of the pay will fully result in an increase in contributions to the Kingdom News. It should be noted that in the time of this government, this charge has flowed unmovedly to State Radio and better, since last year's budget suggested that over 181 million go to RU, the difference in the exact amount of radio pay between 17,800 and 19,400. Funds were decided now that this amount would flow to RU, despite the fact that more of the budget committees feel that these conditions have not been met by RUS. At the same time, the 50 million gathered for an increase in radio fees were reimbursed, thus leveling out. When the discussion is at the top, point people on page 8. 10. I think this way is very fair, and I stress that this is the case with the law that is in force in this country, a law established by the former government. Unlike the previous government, we will return the entire price to the State Radio, for as shown in a report on RUS that was taken most recently, the decrease in the previous government of radio costs, the continuation, and the rest of it, about half a billion during their hours. It is impossible to talk only about the effects of increase in pay because there were agreements in the year that have not been missed. Most of the time, it is especially noted that during the past few years, there has been a agreement that pays a much higher salary than in recent years despite the fact that inflation is minimal. The financial and economic costs of the year have been re-evaluated, and including 11% increase in pay during the current year, it is now estimated that a total increase in pay will be 16.3% in 2016 and 19% when these increases will be fully implemented. These include the expected increases in salary already expected in the bill and the reevaluation of the effects of the pay raise in 2015 on a yearly basis it is estimated that the sum of annual spending increases due to the increase in the pay of the state workers will be 20.9 billion per year. in 2016. Then countless are comparable to the increase in social security benefits categories that are estimated to be 10.1 billion. A total of 32 billion dollars will thus increase the expenses of the state's budget. next year because of the money and the relief money. This may explain why the rest of the budget could not be exceeded. This is an enormous contribution for a one - year fund, 32 billion is set aside for this unexpected expenditure, known to be the key to disaster. I wanted to draw this up especially during the discussion because it is made to appear that it is easy to increase pay. It was a huge salary demand and contracts cost the government in 2016 of 32 billion. This is not all related, for the influence of these collective agreements has not yet been determined on the rise in the financial debt of state funds. The magnitude of that amount can be partly reached, although with several limits of error, by extrapolating commitments as they are at the end of 2014. At that time, the bridge was 667.5 billion. 4,345.6 billion. If the state funds are cut off from the total debt. The former 19% increase, when all the effects of the contract are achieved, will increase the number of the grosss to 794 billion. or about 126.5 billion, to which I call attention, is now over 90 billion over the financial expenses of 2016. The final assessment is not until next year, but it can be likely that it could be of this magnitude and that it would be the most infringement in due course. Thus, it is not only possible to look into the salary in this case and how this increase affects the state funds because it has a huge impact on the state's position in the long term when it is taken into account the debt of Pension, which is as it is known to state insurance in public employees. The same cannot be said of people in general markets; they do not fool to have a stately pension fund, as it was obvious in the collapse of the bank. In addition, government officials have made a better pension fund in that there is more to it, 15.5% who go to the State Pension Fund while it's about 121,13% in the public market. There is a very detailed explanation for the changes in the pay gate in the Committee opinion. Those who are interested in what is being said capitalized, I would suggest that I read that explanation. It contains both detailed information and an explanation for each person. It should be noted that in the process of change, more part has continued to stress the basics of society. It has the first health issues, secondly the infrastructure, and third, the university community. On page 18. 16 and 17 can be seen in what is added to the college community and how much increase there is. It is also taking place only in high school and in a new Institute of Education, although it is an intermediate but it has to do with the legislature to which to go. What I would like to talk about, and what I would like to talk about, are the ones we share in health care. The Ministry of Ministry is on page 6. 36. I have well considered the 30 million who go to the Hospital and the contract made at the Ministry of Health. I'd like to point out that there's some transfers on social assistance benefits. There's 100 million parking. K. increase to S-labelled medicine and I want to direct my words to the right. paritaprevir Though Páll the Árnason of Athenian is not a member of the Assembly Hall, he does not serve as a member of the council hall. He accused me of being a member of a Senate hearing or an anti-resurrection last week that I as the chairman of a legal committee was responsible for the fact that people in this country were going blind, because we did not take over new drugs and S-marked drugs, but this is put to 100 billion. K. an additional warrant for this. According to the Health Insurance Programme of Iceland, new S-markets will need to be increased because new medications have been taken in recent years. It is emphasized that medicinal products adopted in neighboring countries and others are being introduced through oncology and other factors. It's a real joy. There's been a rule here on the country that Iceland does not require at first the introduction of a new S-labelled product except the natural deal I've crossed the way that's involved in excommunication of hepatitis C. That contract is truly unique, and it is not an example elsewhere. We're going to add 240 million to health insurance. This is an additional means of physical therapy because there has been an increase of less than 5% in hospital staff as compared to patients by 3.5%. There has been a reduction in the number of treatments, indicating that there is a partial increase in volume to the animal therapeutic formulation. A new agreement was made with a physical therapist in February 2014. Iceland's Medical Insurance Plan expected a 3.4% rise in the individual market price, but the increase was then 5%. So there is a significant increase in this contract. We'll put in another 200 million for dental work. The rate of dentalization between the years has increased by 26% during the first half of the year compared to the same period in 2014, and the cost was increased by 60 million. K. Much of the increase may be followed by increased electricalizations, resulting in the loss of all costs to health insurance directly from the dentist and thus to a lasting rise. Happily, children have also increased beyond the premium of a mid - 2015 dental contract, with a 60 billion cost. K. beyond what was expected. We also contribute 190 million. K. supplementary access to patient insurance due to reassessment of expenses over the past few years, but costs have been rising continuously. Patient insurance provides patients with the right to improve physical or psychiatric health due to treatment or investigation. This includes events that are experienced by patients in the field of testing or in the hospital, clinic or other medical facility. That's it. I especially wanted to point out the increase in health issues. It is also very enjoyable to add 840 million, less than a billion, for the next three years because of the effort to shorten the waiting list for eyestone surgery, knee-weapon surgery, and hip and coronary artery replacement surgery. They added to the waiting list that appeared in the strike that was heavy this year. These classes have been negotiated. They've added money and been adding money to the waiting list, which is a pleasure. With governments it is a complete understanding that funding was needed to be added after all the projects made up in the strike. It's very important that you draw this out. Plus, we're adding 280 million. K. in temporary financial resources to cover the costs of research projects for hepatitis C chemotherapy, there it is again. I'm not going to go over it again because I did that right before. There is also a suggestion of about 50 million. K. temporary contributions to hospitals in the country. A respectable president. I direct all the talk of the government that we do not have health problems first. Those who read the motions and the opinion of the committee see that we have them first. I say again that the Minister of Health has said that this time the health care is at the top of the budget, but there was still room to make much better - yes, a lot of money - on a side project that involved the Land Hospital operation. A respectable president. I almost forgot the best health - care proposal, but it is indicated in the bill that 1,800 million new ones are entering 2016 to start a building on the Land Hospital. This is a significant addition to the seminary, as it has been shown in the talks and publications of members of the Parliament and the minister of the government that health matters are priority. As I went over the years, the focus of the government and the majority of the legal committees is in the Committee, followed by the development of society's infrastructure and infrastructure. Here, for example, is some 45 million. K. an increase in the number of prisons after we approved 20 million. K. increase in budgets. As a result, the scholarship to the prison business today is 65 million. K., which is very joyful. There are 400 million law enforcement officers. What a clear goal this government has on which to pursue and what to put first!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u66	Mr. President. I want to ask you why. A senator into the numbers as it is. A senator mentioned and the table of the committee that refers to funds for the Land Hospital. We had a very good diagnosis of these numbers last year. Between 2013 and 2014, 4.6 billion went to the Land Hospital and only about 1/3 were given new projects, 2/3 went to salary, dressbacks, and compensations. I'd like to ask you what. A senator has identified this figure with regard to this, how much has gone on new projects. Also, I'd like to ask you which one. A member of the OECD analysis of the renewal, maintenance, housing and equipment costs and development of the health system, where we are second - largest place between Greece and Mexico. Got it. Is it not painful for a member of the council to discuss these matters in full priority with the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u67	A respectable president. I thank you for this inquiry and remind you that a respectable senator was a financial minister during the last term. The union had been six years in the government when this government began. The present government accepted health conditions, as they appeared, and the people know. Here's a question of analysis of budgets. There is no room, but the pay raise of the year negotiated with doctors, nurses, and other staff of the Land Hospital is included in these 50 billion. I asked this last question this morning and they're looking for information about it for me on the committee stage so I hope I can answer that question to the 3rd. I would like to remind you of the government's budget, set up in budgets last year. Less than 6 billion were put in that schedule, and it goes to 2018, so all the money in budgets has been spent. [[The president calls.]] So the hospital is becoming quite equipped and will enjoy aiming at OECD at the end of the game plan. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u68	Mr. President. I'm afraid we're going to have to spit on our hands and do much better than the plan, both in the management and maintenance of the Hospital. National Hospital managers have noted that the increase is 1.7% per year, i.e. the number of patients is about 1.7% per year. The number of patients is important for evaluation of health care costs and is estimated at approximately 1 billion k. If the hospital does not receive it, there will be a cutdown of 1 billion during 2016 and the hospital situation will get worse. I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament whether this is in harmony with the higher priority of the health system in its mind and of the members of the board. Hv. A senator here mentioned the growth of older citizens and the need to make a big effort, which would certainly be on the agenda for more of the legal committee. But when it comes to the Hospital, it is not planned to make up for the cost of growing older citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u69	A respectable president. The other one. A senator, Oddný Harðardóttir, was not so worried about these matters when she was in the government between 2009 and 52013, but he cut down the hospital and squandered the tax money of the people. in the EU application, Constitution, and, in fact, was to be put on the shoulders of the nation with the Icesave agreements for review. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] But I'm very kind to answer that question. I studied there in my talk that the main problem of Land Hospital is that those who arrive there often need medical services. I'm being added to the clinic, and I'm told that three divisions are now blocked by people trapped in the Land Hospital but should be in other places. Now we need to make the two things that will make the land hospital easier. And as I went over, no one is better aware of this mob forecast than more of the budget board under control. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Thor, the son of Þórðarson, has used himself to do so greatly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u70	A respectable president. There are so many questions that I have to try to make something out of, but there are a lot of people I don't feel well explained. One factor is 150 million. K. for travel, for the field of travel studies, but it does not show where these research is to be done, how this money will be divided. I think it matters. I'd also like to ask about the northwest proposals. That's a lot of money that goes on a variety of projects, but it's also 80 million. K. in any vaguely assigned task. You can find out what this 80 billion is about. K. Leave? It's on page 26 of the adjustment proposal. I wonder if it wasn't normal for these projects to have gone into the national parish program so that they would have gone into a professional process and more equal measures were taken. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u71	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's daughter's iron for the inquiry. I'm sorry to hear the lyrics about this 150 million. K. The clinical relevance of this finding is uncertain in the treatment of tourists. In this case, it is estimated that the budget will be replaced by the travel management center, the new organisation adopted in cooperation, including We're in the living room, we're working numbers, we're coming to the country, we're doing something else. This text could have been corrected, and it has been given during a conference talk, but Congress talks and answers are also legal evidence. If I'm pointing to the correct suggestion on page 26 regarding this 80 billion. K. it's just a little clear. It has been the policy of the government - called the Northwest Committee, to further that area, and there is, for example. Directives on its relevance to the Reconstitution site, that is in the Based on Based on Marketing and Application Plans of the Member States. [[The president calls.]] Northwestern politics are not divided into fragments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u72	President. Yes, there are many changes that attract attention, but I find very interesting all the suggestions for the northwest because there are a lot of areas that have similar problems, perhaps people's refugees and their monotonous skills in employment and other activities. Somehow it is just that if you set up a committee of the areas in which you live, the suggestions will go directly into the budget. Is that all the time? Or is that just the case? I'm thinking of sharing public money on equal terms. I know the settlements that are very bad and even worse than there. Where are they looking? What will they do if they do not have any members at a council that can protect their interests? I feel that this procedure is so vague and random, but I'm not minimizing the problems in this area, not at all. But I wanted to hear from what. A senator would find it a good practice to do this by taking one territory and sharing out tasks. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u73	A respectable president. Fortunately, during the council, members of the Parliament come out of all votes, and no one has overlooked that the job situation and the fear of people from the Northwestern district have been very striking over the past few years. It was the policy and decision of the government to start this project, which, of course, is the administrative part. This is how it is used in these suggestions. For example, if we talk about the senator's district, the University of Akureyri will be able to add a tremendously largely to both financial and financial contributions, and it will provide research funds for the Seyster soil gangs, so, of course, there is always a need for balance between parts of the country. It just appeared like this in the budget. So I have no comment that the budget shows the government's focus and to some extent the funds needed to strengthen this area, as shown in a report by the Committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u74	Mr. President. Like others, I could ask a lot of questions. I'd like to start by saying that I'd like to see the money mentioned earlier at the Research Centre for Tourism in Akureyri, which has done research so far and has been very successful in doing so. I don't understand why they're going into the new control center. I'm worried like what. A senator who spoke before me, or with a query, by the parish plans of a part of the country where all the local departments who have approached a budget, wherever they stand, have expressed great satisfaction with transparent management practices, and therefore, in contrast with what is presented here in the northwestern district, away from the projects, I'd like to say it, it's not about that. I wonder why. A senator agreed that this will continue to be the case with the body members of this museum? As recruitment attempts were made in a transparent and open process, i.e. That equal rights were taken care of, and whether we should continue in our old tradition, based on who have access to bodies or to any of these items, and what was really expected to have selected certain tasks more than others. [[The president calls.]] Why not AUUU in Akureyri or why not a Roadroom where they called for the safety of sailors, etc.? [[The president calls.]] What Is It?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u75	A respectable president. I'm not going to rule out any of these strength to research in tourists in some way during the long-term studies in Akureyri, talking about everybody being on their own. The University of Bifröst worked for the government in a recent study of tourists. I think that while the Control Center has the hat on this project, people are getting experience where it is, another would be unnatural, and I named Hauspic. It's only natural for them to seek cooperation with the CP. Regarding the work done on the budget asked, there are a number of projects that are being given, on page 10 of which a special chapter on the budget of cohesion and group members revealed in the budget that the arrangements for these pots in the budget were not working at all. I encourage senators to read that chapter on page 10. [[The president calls.]] It says that the same person may be picking up money in three places without knowing about anyone else. We're dealing with this and suggesting that a Senate committee be formed to address these exact issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u76	Mr. President. Thank you. The answer is made by the chairman of the budget committee. I have to say, it doesn't change when she speaks of a project being left out, and some have been able to apply in more places than others. The same is true. This is, in fact, the interests of those on a budget board or that those who have access to a financial committee carry something in excess of others in my opinion. I ask the senator: "I feel that, among other things, when we set our priorities and meditate on the visits of the local government and others - what about people who are disabled? Doesn't the chairman of the budget worry? Companys have approached a financial committee and have said that they cannot run the group, support the disabled, because they are too expensive and have been imposed on burdensome rules. Does she not think that we should have contributed more money to that party than to distribute it in a way that -- I'm not going to say that all 9 billion people who made the changes, but at least some of them should have gone to that very party? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u77	A respectable president. So I don't know how bad it is when you accuse more of the money commission and argue that it's such a corruption, as this refers to access to a financial committee. I reviewed it in my lead-in speech to a panel meeting of 42 members, several part-of-the- country members of the country, and the representatives of all the conferences, the Habitats, the State Accounting Committee, the European Union members, and others. I'm sorry, everyone has the same access to a budget board, and I'm afraid it will all go away next year when government financial legislation is approved, since these visits are likely to fail. I refuse that there are some who have access to a financial committee better than others. I get bored with this kind of discussion when there's such a good deal of money and a good change plan. However, in the case of the disabled, I can inform you that negotiations take place in the community's affairs of disabled and translocations, so I hope that the results of these discussions will soon become clear, and it is not specifically addressed in the committee's opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u78	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir Hauksdotttóttir conducted a number of factors and made a special subject proposal of some 280 million. K. temporary financial permission to address the costs of study treatment projects for hepatitis C. I'd like to ask you a little bit about this. Do I understand that this is part of a case that occurred in the fall when a woman was denied any drug payment for hepatitis C and this was the way the Ministry was to solve it? If this is the case, then the fact remains after making a budget for drug waste in a number of patients, not their condition. I want to ask you why. A senator: Is she willing to agree that this is the way it is, since the work that is done is totally new to our health?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u79	A respectable president. There it was confirmed, it was all too good news, this hepatitis deal, so that it could be spoken of in a positive way. I have a natural suspicion about the community discussion because it has not been held at this contract in the news and how good it is for the Icelanders and those who live here and the health system and the state. Here the senator is suggesting that in some way governments have been involved with courts in the fall when the Supreme Court judged that the government should not bring further benefits to those who attended their rights. These negotiations were started in the middle of this year, even in the early part of this year. It could not be reported until after the death of the Supreme Court. Then all the paperwork was ready and it was signed, but it was just hand-handed that this was the way it had been arranged. A respectable president. Governments are forbidden to influence courts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u80	A respectable president. It's all set in motion, and it's about time for argument. Senator. I was not suggesting that governments were in any way trying to influence courts. This was a judgment against the woman, and it was clear that she was not entitled to receive medication pay on that judgment. But the thing was -- would like to hear the inquiry, not talk while I presented it. The case was solved by calling the pharmaceutical company to help solve a problem that had become difficult for the government, this case with hepatitis C. I asked why. The head of the budget board whether it would be acceptable to understand the issues of other patients in need of medication, but requiring, as directed by the Ministry of Health and Minister, to put the number of prescriptions under control if the law to be followed. Would the senator be so kind as to answer me if she thinks it is acceptable?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u81	A respectable president. I had only one answer to a senator here in the custody room who was listening to what he was saying. A senator in a speech at the same time. There are two things you can do at once. This government has the best interests of the people of the land, and it has set the priorities of health matters, as I have over and over. This is probably a reference to the drugs that had been prescribed. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason accused me of not being there and some Icelanders were going blind because the chairman of the budgetary committee was so bad that he wouldn't want to put money on the S-labelled drugs. This is exactly what is being done with this proposal of 280 million. K. increase in the S-labelled medicinal products and the Marketing Authorisation Holder. At the time, these bills in the bill were slightly reduced, and here, according to a precise schedule for the need for medication in 2016. It is as simple as that, and it should be delighted that there is room to put more money on the medication.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u82	Mr. President. I recommend Internal Affairs 1st, smaller parts. Funds for 2016 show that the financial status of the state's budget has improved substantially since collapse. Clearly, many of the necessary measures and changes to the tax system that followed the financial crisis in 2008 have proved to be effective. Total equations are expected to be 10.7 billion. depending on the modifications of the majority of the items. There's leftovers, despite the fact that the government's share gave up income ever since he took over. This year the income tax system is being modified, destroyed, or reduced. It costs us 5.5 billion bucks. who go to most of those who already have good things. This is in harmony with the other actions of the right control. Interestingly, when we consider the combination of income, we can say that the government is giving up taxes by changing the tax system to those who are rich and who have done so in many ways since its arrival but are now relying on changes, such as remunerations, to keep government funds away from being in the background. This is interesting, as is the situation in society today. It is deeply concerned with how the increased budget is being made new. It is useful to those who have most in their hands at the expense of those in the lowest salary and middle income. Elderly people, who are frequently in financial distress, are left behind; their terms do not follow the trend of minimum wage and are not adjusted again, in accordance with the salary development and pay corrections of those in authority. Children's improvement and growth thresholds do not follow the prices of development and are much lower than before. At the same time, the recovery of the tax system results in a reduction of 700 levels. K. will be paid in a month. K. a month on tax decline, but people on the lowest incomes have no use in any way. Individuals 25 years of age and older who want to study books are kept away from the schools and referred to other more expensive ways to study. It is a priorities rejected by equals and shows that the government does not have the capacity to build a just society that guarantees a better standard of living for all. Added to this, there is no room for many new housing reforms and rent payments that do not increase in accordance with promises made in connection with the debt breakdown where tenants were left behind. No financial contributions are being made to meet the serious housing problems of young people trapped in a rented poverty trap. The problem is most common among tenants, but many of them lack material benefits according to economic standards. The government that now serves has always upset the hospital's activities with its budget. This is of interest, in the light of the repeated resolutions made by the Generals, to establish priorities in the interests of the National Hospital. Nevertheless, it is not expected that during the coming year the hospital will be able to handle newly developed collective agreements, handle the necessary maintenance, or shorten the long wait list which has been due to a recent fallout in the year to come. Added to this, budgets do not assume that the hospital is not getting contributions to meet the population, change the population's date, or increase the number of tourists. However, these factors are taken into account in contracts with specialist physicians and other personal health care professionals. This is an indication of the wrong priorities of the government in health care. In this context, plans for increasing private health care practices have also been presented, which are funded by the changes made by the board of directors at 2nd. ... abundant. It describes a great lack of understanding of the crisis of the Icelandic medical system that contributes to the growth of personal activity as the only solution to its problems, that it should be done without clear policy or conversation in the community, naturally creating fears that public service is being planned to be further weakened and to increase the cost of patient participation, especially when it is seen that the most important steps are not being taken in health matters, which are an increase in budget for public institutions. They have been engaged in fine service at a time of great surgery, which actually began before collapse. Now it's time for tolerability. Its clear signs include serious situations in the Hospital and the small replacement of family doctors. Necessary investments in the interiors of society are put aside. Too slow to develop in tourist areas, virtually no new roads, and inadequate winter service on the road is severely affected by the inhabitants of the country. Building policy based on random ideas on the construction of aluminium plants in Skafurdur or the sharing of money from the Ministry of Prime Directors in the house peace is not likely to be effective. Part-of-the-count distribution programmes and new projects or plans for creating new and valuable jobs are not available. All of this at the same time as industry, such as fishing roads, and the most efficient tourism services, are released from natural resource costs. There are too little investments in public transport and energy exchanges that would be useful in fighting climate change and the population all over the country. A climate fund needs to make it possible to play with its own role through its image. The budget for 2016 was a good opportunity to create even better society based on a more reasonable exchange of good things in Iceland and setting the basis for a society that is comparable to other northern countries. The opportunities are still ruined and continue to exist, which everyone sees will lead to an increased division in which privileged groups will have better positions than others. The 2016 budget bill does not contain credible parish policy that is likely to stop the fugitives from the country. Mr. President. The Company believes that the improvement in social security should be accompanied by an increase in minimum wage at this time. Counts it to be 69th pars. a law on social security has been put to protect those who get paid a pension for their bank failures. As minimum wage increases proportionally more than any other salary in the country, there is a fair requirement for improving social security as a result of this trend. At the same time, the United States has proposed that the elderly and the poor get their terms restored from May 1, 2015, just as the collective labour agreements assume, and examples are provided from a labour agreement in 2011, this route was under way in increasing the improvement of social security and the increase was observed in the middle of the year but was not asked for an increase in the years to come. Tomorrow, Mr. President, we have a meeting at night. It's a legal committee. The subject will likely be discussed there. I have hoped that the administrative body will change its mind and make adjustments between discussions in the budget, assuming that the poor and the desperate will be in line with other people's concerns in the community and that there will be an increase from May 1 as in the general market. The changes in collective agreements of VR and the Flea Community were thus 10.9% added to the pay on May 1, 2015 and 5.9% to be met on May 1, 2016. Then there are two more steps until a minimum wage is reached at 300 o'clock. K. It is fair when the increase in the lowest wage that the elderly and the desperate will not be left behind is a matter of fairness. The Agency has made a comparison of social security or pension benefits paid by the Agency at the lowest salary level. Its final annual report has a very good tablet showing this comparison from 2000 to 2014. In 2014, the payment of an insurance agency for singles was 101.6% of the minimum wage. Each person sees that if the terms don't rise from May 1 by 10.9%, like the minimum wage, this calculation will be in the next year's insurance report so that social security and pensions will be under the minimum pay. That's totally unacceptable, Mr. President. The government has set the standard for reducing taxes on those who are well - equipped but whose policy is to keep pension under the minimum. This adds to the ineffableness of the country. This protests the Conspiracy severely. It seems that there is a great lack of understanding in the administration home at the needs of the Land Hospital. The national hospital has a real problem, and the executives and their staff have reasoned that there is a need to add money to the business if the current service level is to be maintained. Both patients and professionals have described the absence of any pleasure in the situation as it is. It has never been so difficult, according to doctors, to find a patient's womb spacing. The increase in MAH is about 1.7% annually due to population growth and the change in age combinations resulting in an increase in hospital pressures from year to year. This increase in budgets for the hospital is not expected to correspond to the health care professional's own operating required. Just about 1 billion bucks. The number of patients increasing each year should be proposed to the hospital. At the same time, increasing the need for service is expected in contracts with specialists who work at private staff. The agreement with specialist physicians allows patients to increase because of the population's ages and to be paid at higher expense, but the public health and national hospital are to cover the costs of the increase. This priorities are unacceptable. Added to this is a debate between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of finance for calculating the cost of a new medical monitoring organization agreed on in the last bargain agreements. According to the Ministry of Health, 400 million is missing. K. At the expense, the contract will be fully improved at the hospital. The United States has requested that the State Revision of this debate be taken care of for financial management, as it would be an additional requirement for an incision to the Land Hospital of about 400 million. K. If the Ministry of Health proved to be correct, but the math of the Ministry is passed. In addition to business problems, residences of the Land Hospital narrowed the operation. In recent years the maintenance of buildings has been delayed, leading to some health threat to the home. Under these circumstances, it is impossible to cope. The body agrees with the government's requirement to raise money for maintenance to improve the serious condition of the hospital building. The last few years have been in this country with the lowest possible resources available in OECD countries. The OECD countries spend an average of 0.5% of the gross domestic product on this team, corresponding to 10 billion dollars. every year. If relative to other northern nations, e.g. Denmark, these joints would have about 14 billion earmarks. We Icelanders, however, have taken the equivalent of 0.1% of GDP into investments on the interiors of health care and are then the second - largest position in the OECD countries, between Greece and Mexico. It is interesting to keep these facts in mind when financing with these matters is assessed and when the government boasts of a high priority in financial matters. The bill for financiers expects a rise in health care, especially as a result of home nursing, other psychiatrists in the capital area, and an increase in the number of family doctors by four, including the capital area. The final assessment of patients with various medical conditions is being made to include the addition of a certain amount of money to each patient. In this way, money will be divided between clinics according to the number of patients to whom they are assigned. Change proposals that the bill is suggested at 70 billion. K. will be used to pay rents for eight months for three clinics in the capital area. In a text presented in the budgetary committee of November 23, the proposal said, with the permission of a president: ▪ A health - care minister has decided to offer up three new clinics in the capital area in order to increase the access of the population to the ministry. In a new document with the modification proposed by most part, this sentence has been removed. In 2016, a special budget is not expected to be used for the management of these new clinics. Rather, those wishing to drive the stations will show that they will get to their care. At the same time, the number of patients is reduced to the existing health clinics and the financial resources for their business contracts. If this is how you plan to strengthen your health care, it is difficult to visualize the results. The main problem of health care in the capital area is economic problems. It is more likely to add to the problem than the other. The Swedish government reexamination produced private health centres in Sweden, and the results showed that in areas where less wealthy people lived and social problems were often worse on the private business. What a remarkable result! Before we Icelanders take this step, we need to examine the experiences of other countries and take the discussion both in the Hall of Congress and in the community. A discussion of policies in the Icelandic healthcare system must be clear and on the table. Clearly, there is plans to expand private business in the medical system from now on, and the government intends to do without discussion in the community and at the General Assembly. This gives rise to suspicion and suspicion of having a problem with the health care system, with increased cost of patient participation. That's not going to be cool. The subjects of the elderly are all more and less confused today. No schedule has been made clear about the construction of nursing homes, and there are too many reports that elderly people are not getting out of hospital because there is no room in nursing homes. Elderly ones are uncertain about their status and future, fearing to be raised by their children or relatives when they are no longer able to live in their home. The problems of the local government in the media are particularly common among the poorest older citizens, those living at the lowest social and their families. The direction and structure of nurses to which they are needed is called from all directions. In some areas there is a waiting period for such services to be met with shame. It is also noteworthy that such an important case as the case of the disabled has been driven on the anger of the term. The rural population has estimated that about a billion missing to the seminars, as well as that they want the State's NPA financial share to rise from 20% to 30%. It has been observed that several of the services have seriously submitted the view that it was best to return the legal group to the State. In part, some of that financial differences have recently been agreed between a state and a community. Therefore, it may be proposed as confirmation by the 3rd Environment. ... abundant. The situation is particularly serious for the 55 subjects with NPA contracts, who have already had to cut back on their services and are not aware of the subsequent events. People are put in a life - threatening position, as well as the uncertainty of not knowing whether they can permanently have the freedom to control their own lives. It must be assumed that a solution to the concentration of NAPA has not been left in the recently established agreement between state and rural society and that the agreement in general is consistent with law in the litigation of the United Nations on the rights of disabled people. It is the priority of the United States on the present council to adjust the rise of the maximum pay for the maternity of your maternity clinic to 500 levels. K. in steps until 2018. It is also suggested that the birthworm be extended to 12 months, consistent with the prolongation of the birthworm approved at the General Assembly in 2013, which was subsequently lost. In recent years, fathers have made major changes in birth leaves. The percentage of fathers taking birthlorof has fallen rapidly from 85% in 2009 to 76% in 2014. In this context it is often noted that in 2014 the percentage of parents who received the maximum payment from the birth stock was 28.4%, the mother's ratio 17%, and the percentage of fathers 41%. Clearly, only a minimum of the maximum pay will affect a father's birthplace, so a rise is needed to balance the status of parents and the right children. During May 2013, when a government as a sitting government began to rule, the priorities of government interests changed. By the end of 2013, there were approved laws on changing the birth and parent'sor, which included the loss of the birthworm to 12 months. The government's contribution to the parents of young children was raising the maximum pay of a maternity clinic by 20 points. K., in 370 you. Dec., starting January 1st, 2014. That amount has not been raised since, and its increase in bill is not expected to be a budget for 2016. If that is the case, the maximum pay on maternity will not go up for three years. The status of a child's family and the bridge gap between birthworm and day care must be added. To extend the birth Ororal period to 12 months is a significant contribution from the State in that direction. The estimated cost of feeding holiday reserves by parents at work, by the increase in maximum pay, is 10,156 billion. K. in 2016. That's an increase of 1,706 billion. K. in addition to the estimated contribution to the budget. The union feels that child reforms are not to be changed and that income restrictions are severely limited, as is customary elsewhere in the North countries. This will be the situation of a child's family. The government suggests that in 2016 child reforms are impaired at 200 yous. K. a month's pay for each subject and 400 yous. K. The sum of the monthly pay of the partners. This results in the failure of very few parents to obtain unscrupulous child reforms and even the smoothing of domestic goals. That this situation should be adjusted to a minimum in terms of the quality of minimally paid homes. During 2016 the minimum wage will be 270 points. K. per month. All analyses of land's homes in recent years show that the situation of children's families is the most difficult and too many children in this country live in families with financial problems. Child damage is intended to balance the status of children in the country, thus improving the benefit of children. Mr. President. The United States has proposed a conquistador proposal that allows the Icelandic state to receive at least 500 refugees in the next three years, with a rapid increase in the number of refugees and worsening of their situation. According to the Conspiracy proposal, at least 100 refugees will be invited here in 2015, 200 in 2016, and 200 in 2017. Special attention will be given to the reception of refugees from Syria and refugees from a situation comparable to that of the vulnerable groups of refugees that Iceland has received during the past few years in cooperation with refugee aid. Because of long - standing war conditions in Syria, there will also be increased family unity among Syria, including the U.S. by granting temporary provision for dwelling secrets to support the Syrian inhabitants living in Iceland. Iceland's government has suggested a total of 2 billion dollars spent at the General Assembly. to welcome refugees from 2015 and 2016. It's estimated 825 billion. K. increased growth in 2015 as a result of the withdrawal of refugees and the rise in the number of inmates. One billion were expected. During the current year, but under budgets, part of that amount is expected to be 175 million. K., will not be available until 2016 and contributions to 2. budgets for 2016 will be increased accordingly. Increased contributions are expected to meet increased costs for the increase in trustees and to increase their speech rate, in increased support of international and relief agencies, and in accepting refugees from Syria. The aims of meeting the increase in cost of shelterers and increasing speech rates are necessary, but additional contributions are needed to receive more refugees. Based on the criteria given, it may be estimated that only 50 refugees are expected in 2016. In Europe and in refugee camps in neighboring Syria, the United States must take responsibility for the situation that has come up. In the neighboring countries, Sweden has received a large number of people this year, some 190 yous. ... aman. In Norway, governments have established a standard for accepting over 500 people each year to meet 330 of you. People. Finland and Denmark have also contributed to a smaller extent. All the kingdoms must do their part, and the burdens will be evenly distributed. In this context, there is a suggestion that Iceland will welcome at least 500 people in three years of moderateness and normalness. Increased support for immigrants is essential. It is the most difficult place for foreigners and the activities of the National Society. Mr. President. The union emphasizes that secondary schools will again open all age groups. Funds for 2015 set the number limit for higher schools. Even if the minister of education and culture says that schools are not forbidden to receive books students who are 25 years of age, schools are so limited that most students who applied for school at that age were rejected. The consequences of this government educational policy have now, just one year later, been revealed. In high school students 25 years of age and older have decreased by 447 to book school and by 295 in art and study, by a total of 742 individuals. Clearly, the number limitation message has made it clear that 25 - year - olds no longer apply for school and that they no longer consider themselves to be welcome to high school. Several people have been released from high school or have stopped because of some unpredictable circumstances, such as illness or lack of money. Many of them have returned to high school in their home region after 25 years of age and have passed a student's test and a university test. These people work all over the country, in play schools, in elementary schools, in health institutions, and in technical fields, for example. The country's settlement has relied on the education and work of these individuals. This way has been shut down. What a loss that is for individuals who have no opportunity to strengthen their positions in other ways! The loss will be just as great for the long - term community in general. Research shows that a high level of education is important when it comes to education. The minister of education and culture has traveled through the country talking about the importance of reading and education for economic growth and prosperity in the country. At the same time, it reduces the availability of education, which will harden young people in the country. Instead, they are invited to move to a private school in South Yorkes, in Reykjavík, or in cities, or to attend schools that are well - costed. There is no doubt that this provision will further reduce the number of public jobs in the country, and it will be more difficult to obtain professional education. High school also needs to be strengthened and reminded that the University of Iceland and the University of Akureyri have been accepting more students than they have been paid for for for for years. To strengthen cultural activity is one of the priorities now that the state's position has improved. During difficult times after the economic breakdown, cultural work was cut down, as was done in all areas of society. Most severe of the canning took place in smaller museums and mansions in many parts of the country. It is a priority, therefore, to strengthen national cultural agreements so that the locals can set priorities for culture where the need will best be met. A private theater also has a problem that needs to be solved in 2016, and art decorations have to be restored. A fund of literature needs to be made specific, making the lesser part a suggestion there. The Icelandic opera needs support, which is part of it, because of a hair rent. Dissociating funds from the Ministry of Education and Culture to promote arts in which applications are supplied after advertisements and processing procedures have also been heavily cut down and have to be improved now and in the coming years. The above - listed changes of more parts and smaller parts of the budget are acceptable first steps to give back culturally now that the state's budget is right after the financial breakdown. Various changes are presented to page 6. It's the financial bill that's a documentary. For one thing, it is noteworthy that there is a request to sell homes to Iceland's National Archives on Route 162, in Reykjavík, and to buy or rent other suitable facilities. The National Archives is the largest collection of sources of history and evolution based on the country's history and human life and therefore is the foundation upon which research, government, and human rights are based. The National Library is the national archive and has public access to the museum both in its collection and in its reading hall. The collection and communication with the national administrations are strong, and the educational community is also looking for information in the museum. Because of this, it is important that the museum be accessible to the public and its location to the centre of the capital. As a policy for the museum adopted and released last year, it says about the location, by permission of the President: ▪ All the main activities of the National Archives will be in one place at Reykjavík. (7) This is a new batch of policy and published last year. Hence, the prohibition on selling houses is surprising and raises questions about where the government can provide the work. If governments intend to sell a 162 Light Road under a hotel or a pack of gardens and remove the museum from alpha, it will reveal no other than ignorance of Iceland's National Library and the importance of its availability. Mr. President. In recent years, the growth of tourists calls for clear policies and investments that will strengthen the economy in the country. Popular tourist attractions need to be protected and resorted to intensification throughout the country. In this way, tourists will be able to spread their land better, and more tourists will be more easily received. The government's lack of control over the environment of this rapidly growing industry is inexhaustible. There is a lack of transport development policy, but the financial environment of this article is lacking. There are significant investments in this article, and investments are going through the ocean in terms of government policies supporting the long - term payoff of investments. V.E.G. In the spring of 2013, industrial and commercial ministers immediately announced that the construction of tourist facilities should be financed by natural passes. The bill was still still still still born, and the government and local minister show their inability to allow tourists to finance the necessary structure of consumer cats. Who can see that the entire industry, if allowed to expand so rapidly, will be badly treated without the support of society's infrastructure to receive such a number of tourists. A lot of tension at the most popular tourist positions, and it is necessary to put extra energy in distributing tourists around the country and equal the pressures of natural spheres. Because of the number of tourists, pressures on police, health care, and the national road system have also increased without government intervention in the necessary ways. The United States feels that it is urgent to contribute more money to the police than it is to the headquarters of the last year. A new and costly project awaits the police, which is a serious charge. More important, there are the forces and the police against domestic violence. Anxiety has been described because it is not possible to intervene in such serious matters in a timely and decisive way. The plan is that the local police and social services work together to help families systematically, provide safety for children, and provide them with support, further research and information on resources and follow-up among those who tolerate them. It is very important that these matters be handled firmly by the police. Police pressure on tourists has increased worldwide since 2012 as the number of international tourists increased. A smaller picture shows a number of cases, the number of tourists, and the number of tourists per police. As an example, in 2010 1,490 suspected cases were held, i.e. Cased, had a foreign social security number, but in the first eight months of this year, it has reached 4,322. In 2010 there were 741 tourists at each police officer, but for the first eight months of 2015, there are 2,031. In the meantime, police officers haven't increased. It's obvious there's got to be some sort of action. In the modified section, 400 billion are expected. K. defends to strengthen the law of the land. Police and administrative agencies vary in budget and some of them face a significant exchange. By the end of 2014, it was almost 400 million. K. In the case of the addition, the funds will not be spent on new projects or to address the problems facing the management and work position of the agency. In the text of the modified section, the distribution of funds to the police is presented with the results of the assessment of the service and safety level. A discussion on the proposal of a budget board also stated that the Minister of the Internal Affairs had stressed the border protection and the number of tourists in the implementation of the project. Light is that a much larger amount is needed to deal with the weakness of the police operation, but as I said, the balance of the office is less than 400 million. K. New construction projects and maintenance of road transport need to be implemented as a result of increasing pressures and emphasis on the construction of public transport. Investment in new construction projects is now at a minimum in historical order and in many areas it is lacking. It is very important that the measures taken are covered with additional funds for road construction. Road pressures resulting from the growth of tourists are falling, and because of traffic safety, one tourist may not be able to cope with the situation yet. The same can be said of the winter service of Vega. In many parts of the country, less services are available and can cause financial harm to those who rely on snow - cleansed roads as needed. Furthermore, governments cannot call for more tourists for the entire year if they are not to place money to pay for winter services on the road. With improved public transportation, governments show responsibility for climate change as well as for frequent and good public transportation across the country. The United States has proposed an action plan to address emergency housing problems. In this process, there must be an immediate increase in the supply of rent houses, a reimbursement of rent prices, and a way for buyers to buy their first apartment. Aside from reductions, but not downstroddens, as discussed in the 2nd, the effective tax burden on rent income from 14% to 10%, and the plans for building 400 rented apartments next year, there are no visible financial contributions in next year's budget to meet more serious housing conditions. It is a real disappointment that the social and housing minister has not provided bills that would be likely to change the housing market to a better degree despite the repeated assurances of reform, which were last given to sign collective agreements in our time, but there is little need for wealth and solidarity in the labour market to be disturbed by government policy and deliberation. Almost two years ago, at the end of the 143th legislature, the government approved the Synod's resolution of emergency housing operations and directed it to the government. Sadly, nothing has happened since then. All this election period, the United States has discussed the importance of taking action to meet the enormous challenges of housing. House prices have risen dramatically, and many young people cannot buy their first apartment as well as the lack of renters. Many are in the difficulty of buying and renting a decent home. The government's leadership has repeatedly promised tenet action. Still, the people left behind in the penitentiary get no release and no increase in rent-a-creatures. The tenants were once again promised higher rent payments as counterimbursement because of the increase in food tax on the last budget, but the promises went down. There is a need to support the development of a new social structure system that meets people who are unable to handle market management and cannot buy housing or rent a public lease. This group enjoys a lot of insecurity in housing, and they have excessive housing costs as a proportion of income. Studies show that children living in rented homes are more likely to live with want than other children. Acute surgery is necessary. This action must immediately increase the supply of rent houses, hold back the increase in rent prices, and enable buyers to buy their first apartment. A variety of measures are required to ensure proper housing. I point to the detailed concierge proposal of the United States, which has been reassigned this autumn but has not been discussed. It is proposed to operate into nine teams. At the top of the magazine, there is an increase in rent payments as a result of the recording of the new housing system. President. There's an unscrupulous program. The Union is strongly concerned with the provision of land - to - land resources that are to be spent for the purpose of landins and that they will be directly involved in improving habitats throughout the country. During the last term, for the first time, a comprehensive application program was implemented. An international application plan was planned and a new policy based plan was implemented. It is important to continue in the course established during the last terms, based on an internationally accepted mechanism that is likely to result in success. By means of increasing power and responsibility to the local people on priorities and exchange of public funds for projects on regional and community development. The aim of the application programme is to make better use of the funds, to increase efficiency in national relations with the state of state, to promote long-term emphasis on policy development, and to link them to regional policies. There is a need for additional funding for national parish projects to achieve their objective and purpose. In March 2013, the first agreements for parishion Plans were 73 projects from all parts of the country devoted 620 million. K. There were 400 million of them. K. financed by the government. As part of the country, political reconciliation is amongst the local parishion Plans. The plans are based on a great deal of professional work where local people in each part of the country have been committed and their precious knowledge of the areas has been made new. Improved communication is one of the most fundamental building issues we are facing. Increased contributions to optic armor are a fine price, but no time can be lost, so it is important to speed up projects. High - speed connections need to reach all scattered regions in order to ensure equality between regions to individual and business decision on location. A number of traditional jobs now depend on a powerful network. These include agriculture and fish farming. High - speed connection is essential for a wide range of educational solutions in the country and enables long - term educational integration. High - speed connections are also important support for innovation, development of tourism and other home sectors. For example, there are hardly many settlements in a safe relationship, so there is a poor new opportunity for tourism. Therefore, it is very important to speed up structure. The union celebrates increased funding for these projects during 2016. The Union opposes further declines in radio charge and considers it necessary to ensure that the State Radio is able to fulfill its cultural obligations to the security and democracies and has a realistic opportunity to provide a wide range of programs. It is the assessment of the management board and the directors that the company will not be advanced beyond the current service level. In recent years, a tremendous profit has been made. It is important that the radio fee go uninvolved to the company as required by the media. The administrative part dropped the radio charge from 19,400k. At 17,800k. In 2014 and did not fully pass the fee to the Agency, despite the fact that a reduction in the pay would lead to further cuts. If the radio charge had been 19,400. and to complete the state radio broadcast would have been a foundation for business that would be maintained, both in the programs and in the maintenance of the distribution system. This year's budget bill suggests that the radio charge is further reduced to 16,400k. Clearly, the reduction of the budget requires significant cuts and changes in the role of the Agency. A report on the cause and consequences of the collapse of the bank considers the role of the media as the fourth power. A report by the Parliamentary Committee that discussed the report of the committee and followed up as an explanation of the resolution adopted by all members of the Parliament, is presented with the following key reasons to remind us of the current issue of the Kingdom News, with the permission of the president: ▪ The provision of the fourth - power media, where the Kingdom News must weigh the weightier responsibility. It is important to make such arrangements that the State Radio can perform its legal role as a powerful news medium and the field of education, culture, and communication. Then the State Radio has to insist that it prefers careful research. So many were words. It is obvious that the budget of the Kingdom News will be guaranteed so that it can live up to those requirements of the General Assembly. The United States feels that the tax system should be kept three steps, not to reduce the number of steps to two. In that case, insurance should be reduced, making it easier for SMEs to increase pay. According to the 2016 budget, tax reform results in a significant loss of income compared to 2015. The changes that will be fully implemented in 2017 will remove one step from the tax system, three today. People with 700 points. K. your income will have the most tax reduction, and yours will increase by 12 of it's provisions. K. per month. At the same time, people at the lowest remuneration will have elevations of less than 1 person. K. A picture in the Committee Article 1 shows how a reduction in taxes will be spread by income gaps, and it shows well that the population of 850 you have. K. 3 months' wages or more will be given 3 you. K. per month. The administrative part does not trust to raise the quality of the elderly and the minimum - paying pensioner. This is a clear priority, Mr. President. The change in the income tax system shows the lack of understanding for the government on the situation of the most industrialized group of society. Especially in view of the fact that the board of directors does not want elderly and poorer people to have the same benefits as those who have a low salary in a labour market. The United States believes that decommissioning the tax system reduces the capacity of the state to finance a powerful welfare system that serves all. It's an operation that increases the inequities of this country. New research of reputable parties, e.g. OECD economists, show that increasing inequities reduces the prosperity of countries. Their analysis suggests that the levels of income equations have measurable effects in terms of loss of economic growth. Thus, economic barriers that reduce inequality not only lead to a more righteous society but also make society richer. If you learned a lesson from recent studies, you would have better managed to reduce the tax rate in lower increments of the current system rather than take one step out. If so, it would be a powerful way to reduce pay - pay tax paid by employers and make it easier for them to increase the employee's salary. The reduction in insurance costs is most useful to SMEs and companies who rely on knowledge, intelligence, design, and other human resources. For a more detailed discussion of the Community's position on tax changes, see the Committee's opinion of my share of the Economic and Business Committee. The next year, big money is going to come into the state fund because of forced agreements with a fallen financial corporation. The amount will be in accordance with plans set out by the last government. It is important to use the money that comes into a government fund to pay off debt, reduce annual interest payments, and prevent expansion. It is warned against using the scope created to buy election victories in the next election elections with irresponsible promises. A presentation of negotiations with the demands was a show of decoration, and it did not improve confidence in the way chosen. To go along the negotiation route rather than to let the swelling of a stable tax is a big decision that would have to be more discussed and made clear. [[Take it up in: Okay.]] The stability progress is 379 billion. Based on the information provided. However, the budget bill expects only 170 billion dollars. of the money expected to run into a government fund through the stability process. That money will be used to improve the state fund of income loss from a special financial tax at a maximum of 40 billion dollars. and to pay off the debt of state funds. The Penitentiary's post will be paid, and the interest rate of the state fund of this letter will be about 3.7 billion. lower next year than this year. Thus, it is clear that when the situation has been clarified, the General will be more concerned about the preparation of the stability program. At that time, the United States body emphasizes the importance of investigating the personal development of banks as agreed by a Senate resolution here at the General Assembly, stressing that there will be no introduction to the sales process of the government's financial institutions until it has been investigated and the conclusion is established to learn from experience. [[Later, right?]] Mr. President. How important it is to increase the confidence of the public in how money is given and spent! During the last term, the WHO financial committee greatly altered the distribution of the individual budget. Prior to that change, a financial committee had advertised applications for granting grants and had taken dozens of candidates each year for interview before firmness was made. For many years, including years, the arrangement had been severely criticized. of the Constitution and of the representatives of all political parties who thought that it was a corrupt trap for nonexistent members of the council. It was rumored that members of the Parliament were especially groping people. Improvements in the budget were made on clear evidence to strengthen confidence in the exchange of state funds, in need analysis and surveillance, improved administration, a review of individual cases, and professional organisations. The opening point was that financiers and professional committees offered proposals for individual financial contributions, while fundes and cartels, national cultural policies, rural growth agreements, and the Ministry saw distributions to individual works according to specific guidelines. Not everyone was pleased with this reform work by the Fund Committee. The most unhappy were those who had access to council members and financial committees. This improvement in the budget within the last terms should be followed by the management and supervision of a financial committee and, if necessary, improve the work modalities. Some of the changes made in part of the budget legal committee to the 2016 budget are old - fashioned. The majority of the proposals have broken down the transverse agreement on the process and process of working that managed to recover from the heavy work of representatives of all classes during the last council. [[Up front.]] The majority of the budget committee itself distributes over 200 million. K. to selected projects that seem to be according to the wishes of individual senators. [[Up front.]] There is no sensuous, unconvinced, unconcerned process, and suspicion that the members of Congress are meddling specifically. Sadly, the same can be said of proposals for the Northwestern district. This work is hard to criticize, and it must be viewed as extremely harsh. Mr. President. Resources for funding the changes made by my share are set on a special document. The memory part serves as a collective document-engineered modification proposal, as I mentioned earlier. It expects contributions to hospitals, education systems, children's families, road construction, national parishion programs, and cultural sectors to be mentioned. The highest amount goes to protect the interest of the elderly and the poor. There are 2 billion dollars to cover these changes. due to an extension of energy tax, 3 billion k. due to higher fishing costs next year, 8 billion bucks. Because of the interest of banks and 4 billion taps. ... fora betterIRS. We decided, Mr. President, not to make any tax changes or changes in recent years. Of course, that would have been a possibility, for this government has taken away so many billions of dollars, but it is here a conclusion of 10.7 billion total equations based on single - trade operations if we look at the flow of income. There is reason to worry about this, but, of course, the right management can turn away from its error and make changes that make fair money and build a good welfare community for everyone. The government is certainly not on that route today. It also shows these financial laws and the recent budgets.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u83	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for the speech. Unfortunately, a senator is still on the path of paranoia and tribunals, which were practiced during the last term and is acting here as another member of the council today, saying that members of the country are corrupt and attentioned by some who have a better access to a financial committee than others. I refuse. This is not an acceptable meeting of the Icelanders in 2015. The committee's opinion, for example, suggests that the investigation of the personal development of banks will be speedy. I'm totally ready for that, because I've got a conquistador proposal from me that we'll also take the investigation into the privatization of the later banks in that investigation and that we'll be in full force. I'm there, a respectable president. I'm not supposed to stand up. In addition, there is one issue on the committee scene called the Wazowski case, which shows all the factors involved in the transparent community when the Continent and the Left Green were under control. A respectable president. It's a terrible thing to have to listen to this, that these senators should not get out of what happened here in 2008. But if it's to remain in power, I'm ready for it. Besides, I wish for it. A senator uses the correct information that she read on the committee, since I am not going to do to the senator the intent to publish false numbers in this committee party. So I'd like to give her a chance to answer that, the words here that the top of the board dropped the radio charge from 19,400k. At 17,800k. In 2014, when this is not correct, and it is reviewed by the Committee's list of objects. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the senator to explain this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u84	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is a busy man. First of all, the process of working is that when the adjustment proposals of the majority of the segments are considered, it seems that individual senators, or more, group members, have cut out an assignment to support without any application procedure. No advertisement was published. How on earth can wah. The members of the greater part thought that they were allowed to determine the need for the assigned tasks? One is the work of the last term, they've been changed. However, we advertised according to our applications. We called after applications and talked to people. But this is not even done now. Jobs are hatched, and this is just a matter of suspicion. If this has been done in another way, then why? A senator would come up here and explain to us exactly what professional procedures were carried out when these projects were selected. Hv. A senator says that it really exists in a study of the personal development of the banks, and I welcome it. I'm not afraid of any investigation into what happened during the last term. [[Up front.]] It's fine to do that. But let us not go to another private development without having learned from experience and comparing experience with what is best in foreign lands, for we are not going to put this people back on the ground by practicing unscrupulous tactics in the past. [[Up front.]] Let's stick together for that, me and what. A senator, investigating the privatization of banks and how their restoration was performed here during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u85	A respectable president. The question was not answered. I direct the senator to a table on page 10, where the truth about the radio fee is presented. I'm asking for it. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir has his committee printed with the correct information about RUS because this is how the United States works; based on semi-truth, deceit, and lies to continue the discussion in the community. And this isn't the only case. I'm sure it's time to start investigating the banks. We are to learn from our mistakes. This government is not going to return the banks to demands in one night. That's absolutely impossible, because that's what happened here during the last terms and needs to be examined. I'd like to ask you about the refugee phase. The United States suggests that in the next three years we will receive five hundred refugees. There is no change in such plans for the change or for any cost. How much it costs, Your Honor. It's a whole Oddný Harðardóttur? [[The president calls.]] With this kind of decision, you have to follow the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u86	Mr. President. I couldn't figure out why. A senator on the radio fee. I'll certainly consider the details of my committee party. Now I don't want to do nothing. But it was a bad time. A senator would not be able to give us an example as she would accuse me of other misdeeds, for it is difficult to sit under such coverts from the wind. Chairman of the budget board. I hope that comes to light later. In any case, regarding the State Radio, a cutoff is expected in 2016. [[Up front.]] The Government Board and its directors have said: "If this happens, the Agency will not be able to carry out its legal role. That's the main thing. Let us not kill it with any means of distribution as to what the radio rate was high this year or the year after. If I make the wrong numbers, I will, of course, correct them. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u87	A respectable president. I listened to a talk. A senator who was about a lot of peculiarities. I don't feel like correcting it all here in a two-minute answer. Hv. A senator was in the government during the last term. Among other things, that government was considered to be a ball of votes for a very large amount of payment in connection with the work construction of Backkas and other things. But I'm not gonna discuss it here. I'm just gonna talk about health issues. Hv. A senator rightly pointed out what we have known for a long time that the nation's ages have been changed. This calls for increased stress on health care as well as on part today because we have not made sufficient arrangements at the Land Hospital. With that. A member of the United States is aware of this, so why was there a reduction of 100 nurses in the area where the need is highest? That is why this great crisis became even more difficult in the Land Hospital. That's question number one. Question two, you got it. A senator against contracts with expert physicians? And the next question is, Why did the last government make a deal with dentists who are expert physicians? So there's a question number three: I'm going to allow myself, because once again a health professional, a respectable president, is wrong to read from an article written by Oddur Steinarsson, an expert on family medicine. Time and again, he has tried to correct the misinformation presented here on private health care. He carefully explained that the visits rate of low - paying health care professionals increased as a result of the changes made in Sweden. I'm asking why. A senator. Is the United States against the private sick family doctors here, e.g. In the area of Salaland, which is based on the exact same ideas that have been fired for decades, with great success? Will the Conspiracy please close down in Salatown? Will the Conspiracy please close down in the Low House? Does the United States want to stop the independence of family doctors from working? Hv. A senator needs to answer these questions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u88	Mr. President. It would be good to have more than two minutes to answer those questions. I'll try to talk fast. I just want to remind you of the development of nursing homes throughout the country during a crisis period that took place in the last term. I don't have the numbers in my head. A senator is calling for or answering. I remember, however, the construction of nursing homes throughout the country through the rented route. A deal with specialists - I'm pointing out to them because there's an expected expansion. Similarly, the increase in the public system is to be expected. That's what I'm criticizing. Why is it not expected that there will be an expansion of the land hospital and the public system? But this is expected by specialist doctors and personal health care professionals. I'm not against mixed business plans, but I'm against it if you put out an invitation in whole systems without having a discussion in the community or here at the General Assembly. I don't like it. I want us to change the law to the point that there's no way we can do this. This is a political matter, and we need to discuss it. I've read the Swedish General Accounting report, and I'll pass it on. A member of the council in that report. It deals with the Swedish national reexamination of private health institutions. Many things were done well, but the conclusion is: In the neighborhoods where income - rich people live, and where social problems were more frequent, the service deteriorated with the changes made when Swedish clinics were privateized. That's what I'm referring to. I'm referring to the fact that we should take this discussion. We are to learn from other nations, but there is no provision for any service contract between a health minister and some of his friends, as health care is not mandatory. [[The president calls.]] It is not even a matter of offering and advertising.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u89	A respectable president. I can't get my short answer to read from this article, I will do so in a talk below. I have a report of the Swedish state reexamination on my Web site Gurdauthor.is, along with the correction because it has become a job for Icelandic left men to tell only half the truth. I encourage you - this article is December 3, this man, who is an expert, has repeatedly written about these things - to introduce you to him. Hv. One senator explained earlier that this meant that people would have to pay more for going to a family doctor. Now, that's how it was, the Salare County Health Guard was offered. Do they pay more money there? No. That's not what happened in Sweden, but it's a completely independent decision. The government's work on very unusual objects is here being directed to data without bringing the whole story back. To think that, when they go for an auction and take advantage of a private business that's been done for decades in Iceland, they're going into a basic turn on health care in Iceland is pure and smart. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u90	Mr. President. What I said earlier was that all this environment, as it already is, and this talk of increasing private business at the clinics in the capital area, raises suspicion. [[Up front.]] Then they wonder what's going to happen. - Not if you get a better look, you say why. Senator. Let's take the discussion here in the Hall and discuss it. Hv. A senator speaks with enthusiasm for these things and speaks of the benefits of specialized clinics. Why do you talk anyway? A senator's enthusiasm for improving the size of the landspian? Why would you do that? Since the number of patients cannot be replaced by the public system, would a member of the National Hospital insist on cutting down a billion? But it's probably done with private stations and experts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u91	President. It's kind of hard to get into a pit after a discussion like this. A lot of people are angry. I have some comments. There's one thing about the health system that we need to figure out that the country's dating is changing. The right thing to use is that the population's ages are reaching the normal age distribution. The nation's age mix has been rather unnatural so far. It has been a much lower proportion of older people than the young people just because of the child bomb a few decades ago. Since then, the growth has been normal. So we need to create a system that works for the normal age distribution of the people, and that is where we are heading, perhaps faster than we can make budgets for. I'll go after what they said about the radio charge. I can see the same figures in the memory of the part as in the members of the greater part, so I don't know why they were arguing so much about it. But what I was going to ask was the schedule. The program expects the government to pay a huge amount of money for the rural community on various projects. Why do we not further develop the independence of our rural communities in order to do our own work better, instead of taking taxes from them and then arguing with them again? Why can they not take advantage of the income that will be available to them in order to accomplish these building projects?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u92	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. The very idea of a national application program is that parts of the country are directly involved in the budget. We'll set aside a coin that will remember which parts of the country have special priorities. That's the idea. Of course, some parts of the country are not readily available. It is only natural, then, that instead of saying that a state is going to contribute to this and the other, we have a certain formula that the parts of the country themselves can set priorities, thus directly entering the budget in the early stages. That's the idea. In our memory, we have a suggestion to make 400 million more. K. in the application schedule. If it should be well, we should have 1.5 billion in there. There's something we should be trying to do. During the last term, there was a lot of work to be done. I participated in it in my district, where people from all classes and sizes and made up to identify the situation, where was the need to build up, and how could it be done to make the busiest possible in the country? [[The president calls.]] There were a number of unsaid assignments. We need to keep on doing so. When that government began, it threw away the whole parish program. All of it. We were able to cry in here 100 million. K. to carry on this job that unit leaders were happy with all over the country, no matter what they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u93	President. I'll agree that the plan for the application is a very good plan and it's good to finance it. What I'm trying to tell you is that the government gets income tax from companies and it gets a merit tax from transactions, even though it's in rural areas. Just as rural communities are being reassigned by individual income tax, they should get an account of the company's income tax and should be involved with the value tax so that they themselves can finance the issues that they clearly want to establish in a particular way. It was all I pointed out; allowing them to keep the money that will be available to them in order to finance the work they want to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u94	Mr. President. That's right. I still think there must always be a combination of these two. The communities that hit it. This year's budget panel was all talking about income institutions, that the legal income stocks, real estate bills, the answer, and the branch funds were not up to the service. They wanted exactly, talked about the merit tax, a share in credit. They may serve tourists who just leave behind their communities, stay away, or buy any item, so rural communities actually cost tourists but do not receive money back. So it's a justice issue for the communities. We've been talking about the locals getting a share in the fishing fee as well. That would be normal. I agree with that. A senator that we need to find ways to break the income of our rural society. It is normal to look at the value of the added tax for tourists and the fishing fees for the sake of fishing, of course, but it can be considered in a larger context.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u95	Mr. President. We'll discuss some suggestions on the greater part of the 2nd. the financial bill and the concern of our minor people of that kind were expressed by many of them, at least. Here were a few things, we in the smaller parts have chosen to make a common adjustment, but we each have a different opinion. After the continuous improvement of the state funds each year since 2009 and in 2013, the trend has been relatively slow between 2014 and 2015. A positive conclusion is primarily based on irregular teams such as unusually large financial contributions owned by the State. The results of 2016, for example, are watched to produce some of the newcomers, are similar, even worse than the rest. This trend in terms of continued and continuous economic improvement since 2011 is of concern. State funds have been systematically weakened in this government's history, allowing a total of at least 3,500,4 billion dollars. However, the economic situation of the country gives us an opportunity and opportunity to strengthen society's infrastructure and well - being. The forwarding party government and the Independence Party do not treat this opportunity, as it were, in the left green. In common proposals of the government, it can be seen that other emphasis can be placed on the government of the country, if it is needed, and if possible, more reasonablely make better use of the funds of the state. It highlights improvements in public interest and in the lowest income, health care, culture, education, and investments in the environment and in countries all over the country. In this way we believe that it will be best to counteract injustice in Iceland and to ensure that more prosperity will be divided justly. The 2016 budget was set aside on a total budget of 15.3 billion dollars. But the government's proposal to turn it down to 10.7 billion. The bill and the ensuing national financial programme still make it clear that the financial emphasis and financial policy of the government of an independent party and a forwarding party is making it in effect that the burdens of the richest group of citizens and those who are considering the material memory with an unfair distribution of the taxpayer and the exchange of public funds. It is a government policy that is characterized by great uncertainty about major factors involving both expenses and financial income. The impact of collective agreements is considerable. The government has chosen to issue large incomes where money is put aside or does not extend it, lower hunting costs, pay tax on middle level, reduce tolls, decrease tolls, drop the upper level of credits, and reduce tax prices, whereas food taxes were raised, and it is repealed to reduce insurance costs to some degree. This emphasis is surprising, especially in view of the fact that, at the same time, there is a huge array of budgetary categories. As we have seen, we have talked about health, social security, education, transportation, and much more. It is a financial policy that is built up in the new world, and uncertainty is an irresponsible and unjust policy that is most useful to major people and rich men than low - paying people, poorer and older citizens in the country, and the account for the lack of investments in the interiors of society is sent into the future. The product of the fiscal bill is based on starving money - torn national agreements, even though long ago external circumstances have been more economical. When it comes to working on the budget bill, it is very important that we do well, for that is the largest case in the winter, and it must ensure that the public's trust in the provision of funds from the state's budget is given. I find that there are some things to be critical of, including... lack of agreement with the council and therefore stated the crucial agreements of the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunugason on the stability of fallen financial companies instead of stable taxes. The stability progress is presented as one of the basics of the GDP, although it has yielded much less than has been presented in various financial ministers and prime minister displays and is completely unexploited, both in next year's budget and in the financial policy. Not to be overlooked is the work as a greater part of the budget committee for the exclusive joint, the so - called curator, as I spoke to the chairman of the legal committee in return. In fact, a greater proportion of budgetary committees are assigned hundreds of millions of dollars, to their own appetites, to museum members assigned to do in a uniform, professional, and transparent manner. During the last terms, this was changed, including due to the indications of Government Accounters and members of all categories who have been subject to special favors to those who have access to legal committees. These are the opinions that came along, and that's why they started changing them. As an example of old - fashioned practice, the making of more than 240 million is distributed in a number of types of projects that actually belong to museum members. In this context, there are tasks set up in 285 million, but these have not been discussed in the Committee and no evidence has been provided, at least not in our audience, the memory of the stock board. In itself, it has nothing to do with the work being done there. It would be almost to strengthen urban and application programmes where local people set priorities for professional processes. The general public must be able to trust that money is distributed in a professional, transparent way, not according to individual senators. The main frustrations are, however, that this is a budget that I find free of all future vision when it comes to the future development of community infrastructure, economic sustainability, maintenance and growth of society's infrastructure, responsible environmental policies and trustworthy solutions to the very sensitive state of the European economy both in the present and in the future. It's only about the budget. The budget is estimated to drop only about 11.5 billion to 2019 and, however, will remain virtually unchanged to that year or about 68 billion years of 2017 and 2018. Under the budget of 2015, i.e. This year, interest costs are expected to reach more than 82.5 billion, drop to more than 77 billion, according to the bill's status on budget 2015, but decline to 72.6 billion under the bill for 2016 and change and remain unchanged until it falls to less than 63 billion dollars. in 2019 C.E. In this regard it should be noted that in 2015 reevaluation interest rate is expected to be less than 6 billion below the budget of 2015. This decrease was explained to most of the less effective projections this year than by budgeting which, among other things, affects government interest, government stocks, and bonds at Iceland's Secret Bank. Thus, in view of government's cortical declarations to lower interest rates, the decrease in interest of interest seems to be small, and appears to be largely explained by the pay of debt to the Bank of Iceland, i.e. ... about5 billion. A key requirement for increasing debt subsidies is plans to make use of part of the resurgence, stability tax, or the Sensian currency supply to pay up 103.5 billion posts of the state's debt to the Sentencing Bank. Stability progress, i.e. The agreement of the Foreign Government and the Independence Party with the demands of the fallen financial companies, which we recall was presented with a corneal presentation in Darp in June. is critical, both misleading and convening with the Council on the issue that has been negligible throughout the term. By the stability process, the Government of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, gave up a huge sum of incomes that pay up to a 39% stable tax on the well - being by offering taxes on the tax if they do not have to pay within the specified period. It also gives thought to the yielding agreement between the government and the foreign requirements for interest and can be seen in the publication of the head of the state taxation of the 172 suit. 175, about the change in income tax laws, the tax laws for special taxes on financial companies and financial law. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ In terms of the state taxpayer's opinion, the controversial legal adjustment proposal will only solve the problem of growing interest to foreign recipients - unsolved would be the problem left over by national demands and standards required by law No. 94/1996.156 A large group of demands will therefore be replaced by the agreement with an independent party and a forwarding party, which is much better for the demands than the government had. In this way government funds and at the same time the public will be less detracted than by the stable tax route, and uncertainty continues to determine when the public and pension funds will be released from capital capital capitals. Although the government has made it a goal to sell up to 30% of its property at Iceland's National Bank, it is not expected to profit from its sales under the bill. That must be an unusual plan in the light of the written status of the company and the prospect of the future. The high value of money also does not contribute to subsidies, although it is intended to defend the value of payment. This uncertainty with the trade process of the Lands Bank does not have to be surprising, since one of the members has concluded against the bank's sale at its last national meeting, so there must be considerable uncertainty about the outcome of the case. The left movement ◯ Green supply violates the sale of this object of various causes, including that the bank gives its owner considerable gains, but also because while the state has as much power on the banking system as it is now, there are great opportunities to jump up the system, separate business and investment banks, and organise sound banking systems into the future. I remind you that council members of the left movement have presented a matter of understanding business and investment banking. A 20% reduction in total debt is expected to be due to gross domestic product at the end of 2019. The decline in debt ratio can be largely attributed to growth in domestic product production, as its value is estimated to increase by 29% over the period. The value of the debt is also expected to drop by approximately 15% over the period due to sale of shares in the Lands Bank and a debt bill at the Sports Bank as it has been traced. Thus, to a small extent the government's public business will pay off the serious concern of the debt, that the underlying business is still not good enough. Although the economy is on the right, it is very sensitive. Sadly, labour market conflicts have marked all this terms. In the light of history, it is not surprising that countries are uncertain about the effect of collective agreements. Worst of all, in the present government, there has been a lack of contracts with a working class that has rightly looked for pay corrections and with more vision and agreement will likely could have been met in a way that was not done with the length of conflicts, strikes, and repeated legalizations on employees that have not been shown for decades. The secretary of the budget recognizes the uncertainty factor due to new labour agreements and their impact on the economy, as shown on page 6. 6 policy and outlook, where it is based on the hope that good cooperation will be achieved between the labour market partners and the government. We know that it seems that those less modest among the hands who have called for reform should make sure that stability is maintained. Despite the uncertainty, the fiscal bill asserts that by reducing tax burden, increasing employment, and increasing wages, the increase in the growth in provisional incomes in the country's households will continue to increase. It is important to keep in mind that the promises of the current government on the above measures are far from being implemented in favor of the public. Therefore, the government market suggests that social security pensions and pensions increase in the same way as pay in a general labour market, i.e. To the lowest-payers, 300sts. K. and that this goal will be met in 2017. The reduction in tax burden in the past has been most beneficial for businesses and big business and high-priority. It is important to note that in spite of the wonderful promises, the government brought its inconsistencies into agreements in the labour market contracts in the summer of 2015, likely to be remembered and to have government ministers repeatedly pointed out that the tax changes are involved in collective agreements and, as a result, almost overcomes criticism. To answer, it is possible to resort to other tax doctors in contracts with the labour market that would have been more supportive and less negative. It may be asked, " Why did I not have to cut down my insurance fee? ' In the long term, the tax on pay is the tax paid by the insurance company. This decrease would thus have affected the entire pay record in contrast to the decline in tax rate, which has no effect on the lowest paying rate. The increase in pay is not automatic, however, the increase in financial gain, which makes it clear to the Bureau's standards of inflation that the purchase of funds is drawn immediately next year, if observed, from less than 8% this year to less than 7% next, to 5% in 2017 and to more than 3% in 2018. This is shown in Table 5 of the National Institutes of Money, which is known as the OCEAN, U.S.A. It also says that in 2016 inflation will reduce the rate of salary gain. The U.S. Penitentiary Committee has warned of a rapid worsening inflation ratings during the year, and it is most recently remembered that the bank's direct growth was increased by 0.5% in both June and July, and is now 5.5%. The meeting of the money conference committee since November 18th. it shows how sensitive the prospect of inflation is from collective agreements. The unsuspecting factors discussed in the November issue of money emphasize that the next three years' worth of inflation could easily change from what is expected in the ground forecast. Priceal pressure may be underestimated, as it would otherwise require a higher interest level than the basic projection to keep aim - keeping inflation, if, for example, an enterprise is concerned by the expense of newly made collective agreements to a far greater extent than expected in the projection, or if the effects of a temporary increase in the amount of money available on private consumption and prices are underestimated. In the government's tax policy, the real political policy of the dominant government is reflected, for example, not only is the tax system needed to obtain money for social projects but the development of the tax system affects the whole community, whether it is divided tax burden, property, or income distribution. The left movement, therefore, suggests that the change in the step - change of the tax system and the tax declines involved. Further, government funds and funds are to be spent in promoting social infrastructure, such as the social standing of the worst in the community. Our proposals for the memory of the part show this. It is assumed that the government's arrangements for taxes will reduce the income of more than 7 billion next year and some 1,915 billion a year to 2019 C.E. We see that in the coming years, we are losing a substantial amount of money, which is very sensitive to society and government funds, which are just beginning to balance outside this irregular income. By means of a budget bill for 2016, the government of Independence Class and Progress continues in the same direction, giving up an important amount of money at a delicate time when the Icelandic economy is rising from the ruins of economic ruin. The present government is in charge of this bill in further changes in the tax system, all of which contribute to the greater inequities and detoxification of the richest part of the country and make the chemical memory more and more expensive to the combined expenses of all of us. This calls the government a simple tax system, but it is, of course, the policy and purpose of it to disappear from the income - trade tax system established by the former government to increase the equation. In fact, a minister of finance has been successful in his efforts if it is determined on the grounds of the NGO of low taxes and low cohesion. For 2015, the focus was primarily on the change in the value tax system and the lower tax steps were increased from 7% to 11%, as we shall remember. In spite of this, the minister of finance was still thinking about further expansion of the lower level, and he wanted to take it to 14%, and that is how it first appeared in the bill. A resistance to government opposition and labor movement prevented the rise, and these changes are the worst for those with the lowest income. As mentioned earlier, the government intends to further tax change, and it seems that the goal is to try to reverse all the income that the last government's tax reformed. It seems that it is the largest case of this government to try to reverse everything that was used to be done. Changes to the current government's high value tax and income tax as well as to the detriment of capital tax have already had a negative impact on the income balance. In addition, tax loss is completely out of harmony with the Court's repeated wishes that the government supports government's national financial policies in the bank's financial policies. The reduction in taxation, on the other hand, increases the likelihood that the bat will increase its growth in order to reduce demand. Further support against the government's tax system changes can be found in the opinion of the 1st lower part of the Economic and Business Committee on various grounds of budgetary laws. A lot of talk has been made about insurance bills and stocks. The share of the insurance bill that runs into the birth Oralfs Fund has fallen from 1.28 percentage points to 0.65. The ever larger portion of the insurance bill flows beyond the particulars of projects and it is not yet implemented how the funding of the stocks will be maintained, despite the well over a year being a social and housing minister ordered a committee to submit proposals for improvement in the funds status of the fund. It would be worth more than a section of the budget called for these suggestions to begin to be seen. In the joint proposals of the government, there is a suggestion that children's families will be brought up to 500 thousand roofs and child support will increase the impairment criteria. It is sobering to think of a time when the nations of the world are assembled at one of the most important climate conferences, and a united spirit prevails among them to reduce fossil fuel emissions is the focus of the Icelandic government to put off environmental and resource taxes that are one of the most powerful instruments the governments have in the fight for future generations when it comes to protecting the environment. However, there are neither many nor many resource taxes in this country; such taxes are mainly in a carbon tax paid in the state of liquid fossil fuels, such as gas oil, diesel, gasoline, airplane and jet fuel, and fuel fuel. While carbon costs are laid and charged by law, the high government of the Independence Party and the forwarding party was reduced by 1%. The same is true of gasoline charge, oil charge, and miles. These reductions in consumption of taxes, i.e. In my opinion, in my opinion, petal tax and tax returns were allowed on the part of the government to negotiate collective agreements and by the Government's declaration of their operations related to the Shrecking Mass in 2013. Like other tax reforms, the provision of the government's increased consumption and incentives, even at the same time, at the same time involving consumption as undisputed environmental damages, such as fossil fuels burning. The law on climate that is intended to reduce greenhouse gas emissions accounts for the cost of emissions. It will, in view of the average price of emissions in the European Economic Area, as it is in a year period that ends on August 31, the previous year. This shows something other than the willingness to perform in terms of climate taxation. That's the law No. 125/2014, on various grounds of a bill to be funded for 2015, stipulated that income from available emissions flows into a state fund instead of a climate fund, which is intended to support projects that can help to narrow greenhouse gas emissions in Iceland, adapt to climate change and increase the public knowledge about climate change, its consequences, and the possible measures to cope with them. The obvious fact is that the income of a state's budget is being reduced in climates, allowing it to flow directly into a government fund, where it is not earmarked climates. To meet Iceland's commitments to climate crisis, the European Union has a common proposal for the increase of funds to be made to the green economy, public transport and to the climate fund. The tax system can be used to promote and improve human health and to prevent general health damage by preventive measures. Unfortunately, that does not seem to be the policy of the current government, as shown by its reduction in alcohol and tobacco charge, as well as the decision to eliminate the sugar tax on January 1, 2016. The consequences of too much sugar consumption are known to be seen in a variety of diseases and disorders that already affect people's health and will do so on an even greater scale in the future. These have been referred to as an epidemic when it comes to the incidence of so - called diabetes. Therefore, it is clear that, at the same time as the present government established a special government prime board on public health, its arrangements in terms of government matters should be aimed at reducing the taxes of insurmountable but raising the price of loyalty. Finally, despite the best - known public health and health ills in general, it will not be avoided to mention the proselytism of the Independence Party with its class leader on the increase in access to alcohol despite the best - known public health and health groups in general, not to mention the new-release policy of the government itself. A respectable president. It is impossible to avoid talking and writing about the income of the state's funds and deed in the long administration of an independent party and a forwarding party without referring to the enormous sums that the government gave off the state funds almost immediately by the 2013 administration of the change in fishing fee. Clearly, with changes in the fishing fee in the past of the present government, government funds have already been worth billions of dollars, and everything looks like they'll continue to decrease compared to the latest number from Fish Labs. These figures show that the reduction in fish fishing in 2012 and 2013 is less than 9 billion and, in effect, some larger in terms of annual prices. In general, the fishing costs during the last year are only less than 8 billion, and they do not remember much that the government was able to wipe out the full thought of a particular off - to - date fishing fee, which is on top of a general cost that takes into account the cost of major marine services. The same trend can be seen in the reduction of fishing costs in the 2015 budget, which is considered by the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs at more than 2 billion dollars. and is mainly attributed to adjustments in legal requirements, which better match their pressures over the fishing year, thus improving the pressure of the fish. During the 2015/2016 fishing year, a monthly fishing fee will be paid and due to the fishing of the second month. Thus, instead of largely placing the fees on the hands of the legislatures at the beginning of the fishing year and then collecting four equally paid days, such as the preparation in the fishing year 2014/2015. This results in a lower rate of fishing during the 2015 calendar year, with a higher rate of fishing in the next 2016 season. In this regard, the left movement reminds us of a green proposal that the government has dropped the fishing rate substantially since it received its administrations, as shown by a picture in my committee. It is proper to note that fishing costs have not been reduced because of the worsening of the fishing industry, which has been extremely good in recent years, but because of political government decisions. In this case, the use of a common resource will have to be considered peculiar priorities for the government to reduce the income of a government fund, at the same time as it cannot be financed in order to ensure that society's infrastructure is under way. The government budget is being offered, and it is referred to in the 2014 -2019 national forecast that public investment will reach its maximum in the current year and then decline rapidly in the coming years, as shown on page 5. 18 on bill for budgetation, policy and outlook. However, public investments are at the lowest level in history and would need to be increased even if only to make up for savings in the infrastructure from a financial breakdown. This financial bill, for example, does not provide the necessary funds for the road construction to promote and sustain our country's transport systems. Only small amounts of money are added to discuss the budget. This decision-making and distribution of public funds appears to be based on psychiatric decisions, unprofessional but not based on the calculated need for road transport, nor in accordance with the tremendous cumulative need for road transport by reform and maintenance, especially by the huge increase in the number of tourists to the country and by the rate of increasing traffic weights. The Parliament has not been given the opportunity to discuss and provide a legal guide for the priorities of transport money and, in fact, it seems, that the budget assumes an even less effective strategy than it has been seen in the proposal of an internal secretary of transportation program that was not to be paid the last time when it was submitted to the Council, May 27 of May. The rapid decline in economic investments is predicted by a reduction in gross investments between 2018 and 2019. Few suggestions, policies, or visions can be found in the budget on any type of investment that might be in the water other than major projects. Only one sentence on page. 20 Notes that large investment projects are being carried on in tourism, especially hotel buildings. No other public investments are being proclaimed on the part of the current government, nor is it possible for any of the expanding forces in society to be created successfully because of this imbalance. It is only said that governments and rural communities will be on the alert and will be concerned about counterwarrants. The same is true when it comes to commercial investment. There will also be a dangerous development in the coming years, but as reflected in national forecasts, employment investment will decrease from less than 21% as a proportion of GDP to less than 1.5% in 2017, as shown in the figure provided. In fact, according to the prophecy, it will be negative in 2018. There is no mention of government policy when it comes to investments. Therefore, it is urgent that the secretary of finance clarifyes his policy when it comes to investments, both employment investments and public investments, but especially when it is now understood that capitalism will be completely released in the near future and that investment levels will be increased. Iceland's Habitat estimates that unemployment will be 2.9% next year compared to 3%, as expected in the budget. In view of this, about 350 million people are put in place. K. a decrease in the cost of unemployment. Granted, unemployment has declined since a happy financial breakdown, but there must be a serious concern for the authorities as to how much and how rising unemployment is among the academics in the country. The proportion of academics of total unemployed has increased from 18% to 25% since 2013. That may be one reason our people go abroad. In spite of this serious situation, it is stated in the financial bill that the government prepares for changes in the tax law to pay the advice of foreign experts on temporary special projects, as shown by the Ministry of Education, which is probably a well paid rate, but there are no special measures in the government budget or financial policies to increase the professional benefits of university education in this country. The prime minister for the final implementation of housing and the future of the camp loan and many matters relating to its activities was not available at the contributions of a bill to finance but part of it is being made during the last days of the council. It is difficult to plan for the council to discuss the effect of housing on dogs'budget during the last days before Christmas. At this point, it is only possible that the changes that are being done will lead to the failure of the camp loan fund in the same form, but it is unclear how much change affects its ability to drive. When the bill was prepared, it was refused to cancel a warrant, since rent loans to a tenant partner are not expected according to the specific arrangements. Instead, the Government's declaration on housing issues dated May 28th. proclaimed the basis for a new social rental system designed to be funded by the founding of state and rural society and the government's direct wax payment, but at the contributions of the budgetary bill, this foundation had not yet been laid. All too many people live in dissatisfaction over housing, and they are unable to handle high housing costs and now, when the ideal period is more than halfway around the world, it is shocking to see the inexplicable characteristics of the government when it comes to housing, and there is nothing that has been done to face real problems, not landlords or landowners, despite the wonderful promises. A respectable president. I'm going to go to the health - care centers that get a lot of space during the discussion. According to the National Hospital, in a memo sent to a budget committee, the cost of contracts is 400 million. K. beyond payback, this will take into account the reorganization of the physician's work programme, which will apply to January 1. and reduces the cost by 175 million. Part of the profit of the state's funds is the drive of the Land Hospital into the sanctuary. In spite of a significant problem that will not be solved by the adjustment of the share in this budget, the top priority for the health system is expressed. Hence, the management post suggests that there has been a considerable lack of hospital funding in harmony with the hospital's work. This is because the current year's strikes reduced the cost of a short time that will likely hit the hospital full weight next year. This has not been adequately maintained, as we know, and it has been seen that the hospital maintenance funding are relatively small compared with other comparable North countries, which makes the need for maintenance accumulates with related problems. The government has taken its foot off during the renewal of a Land Hospital of ▪ University Hospital, and it seems that it is a long delay for the people of the country to have a service as best they can do in other places, despite the efforts of the Agency's employees. In particular, ministers have been able to express themselves in a very different way as to the location of the hospital, making it sufficient for them to include prime minister and health minister. The left movement has offered full suggestions on how to finance the building and the necessary purchases. Adding a wealth tax to the country's most treaties can result in an end to the funding of these necessary projects within a designated period of time. The left movement, therefore, encourages the tax to be laid on and the building is rising rapidly in the years ahead for the benefit of all the people of the country. But there are more hospitals than the Landspit. The situation in the Business Hospital in Akureyri isn't good enough because of this government policy. To keep the hospital operating in Akureyri, 110 million will be required. K. contributes to the business in addition to what is expected in the budget. Otherwise, organizational adjustments are needed, with more than 70 million. K. This is the first nine months of this year. A team on the construction of the labor departments at the Akureyri Hospital, which returned the medical minister a report on autumn days sees the only practical advantage of new ones to solve the problems facing its housing problems. Health Ministers are advised to provide a future policy and a management plan for the hospital at the head of the Northern country. Medical institutions are also practical. At least two of them will make ends meet. It seems that their unity has not been properly prepared. A lower portion of the protest is contributing to the well - being of these important cornerstones in the region, and it is important that the country enjoys all the more intensive health care wherever they live. This brings us to social security, which has also given us considerable space during the discussion. The bill expects a 9.6% rise in pension insurance from next year on, but correction according to the lowest wage is not included. I think it is reasonable that this group is reasonable and insists on correcting the interests of older citizens and desperate ones, since this group cannot go into a strike to improve their terms. According to a recent opinion of the Quantum Community, monthly provisions were made for microenergy donors who live alone and who receive a suitable household supplementation of about 187,507 p.m. in months more than 172 thousand in those who lived with another 18 - year - old or older, these numbers are based on the past year. In the same opinion, it is counted as adeduction requirement, but according to the opinion of the team, a childless individual needs to live in his own house, 348 you. K. per month, more than 482 thousand per tax, in order to meet normal expenses. These figures in whites show that micromasks do not stand a chance to live a decent life off their income, and that in itself applies to older citizens as well. In view of the earnings of senior citizens, the response of the social minister to the U.S. P.A.'s request by Indriðadóttir Injunradóttir showed that 70% of the senior citizens had earned less than 300 levels. K. if we have combined income including government insurance payments. All should be able to unite in caring for these groups with greater respect than is now being done. It is necessary to improve mental - health options. A resolution proposal for mental health care and policies for four years submitted in November is a step forward. According to the proposal, about 112 million people next year are expected to take three measures. Two of these are found in financial laws, but one is missing, an operation that has been named A.9. By permission of the president here says: ▪ You must meet the growing need for mental - health professionals for housing and service. The government situation suggests that it will be corrected and proposed in its missing 33.1 million. If these funds are available, they will pay for the mental - health care of people who are now staying in the Land Hospital because of lack of agricultural services, and for the purpose of services that will result in a state of mental - health care, not having to stay in a hospital because of the lack of opportunities for the future. Sexual violence statistics are striking and show that a large proportion of women in Iceland have been subjected to such violence, and a large proportion of young girls are subject to child abuse. The government market suggests 200 million. K. protect against sexual violence, rely on the rights of the justice system, and ensures effective measures for sexual abuse victims. It is very important to strengthen both the police and the prosecutions and to ensure that all professions are properly educated, all those who render broken service, such as social service and community service, which are involved in legal proceedings for them. While diversity and flexibility have been among the main costs of our high school, the present government is gradually changing the educational system through budget without a widespread professional discussion in the community and in the council. They are working undergroundly to weaken the small schools in the country, thus reducing the opportunities for a wide range of home Bible studies in their locality. The same policy has also been forced through the larger urban settlements. It points to more expensive routes of private schools, or chronic education centers, for those over 25 years of age who want to study books that even lead to migration. Increased donations with each student at the highest. As a result, a minister of education speaks a lot about the access limits and the poor business of smaller schools not being able to enter the number of students. Study access is very important to small communities; it not only increases education levels but also increases the likelihood that people will decide to continue living in the scattered areas. I'll give you 15 million. K. adjustments in proposals to meet the growth of distant students in small high school schools as well as 5 billion. K. to spread to weapons, a fine addition to high school activities, as well as a far less expensive risk to families in scattered areas. In addition to this, the government wants to contribute more money so that 25 years of age and older can be delivered from high school accounting. According to a new OECD report, donations at each university student in Iceland are very low and far from what is commonly used in neighboring countries. Nevertheless, a powerful university education is the most important way to ensure future prosperity, a work structure based on initiatives and innovations of individuals, but it is not about medium-controlled solutions and building up here the knowledge community that all political parties claim to pursue in word. The General Assembly's agreement for a century of Iceland's University, which is added here to some of the funds has not been followed, but this fund has been the University of Iceland's University of Rockies following in recession in times of crisis. Its establishment was adopted at the General Assembly for the 100th anniversary of Iceland's University and has been mainly used to promote innovation and research. The plan was for government and school to set up a budget for financing in 2016-2020. Among other things, the goal was to make contributions for each student so that Iceland would have an average OECD and later an average neighboring country. But nothing has been asked, prime minister has not seen fit to comment on the case, nor is there evidence in the bill to keep up the fund as planned. There are changes on the part of the government that repairs some of the colleges in the country, but unfortunately, the aimlessness and clearness of the future are lacking. For example, the University of Bifröst gets 50 million people to secure a homeless business while the University of Akureyri has been holding for many years in a budget of heavy maintenance operations and has actually been paid to pay for it. The agricultural schools have been hit when it comes to financing, and the present education minister's mind seems to be moving toward united University of Bifrost and thus become privateised. However, more than a portion of the legal committee suggests that Iceland's National College of Agriculture at The Netherlands will receive 58 million. K. temporary contributions, which is an earmarked agreement with the employment and innovation services for agricultural research. High school gets 25 million. K. temporary contributions to meet the collection of management halls. It's a good one, but it's very important that long - term policy is in order so that schools don't have to have enough money to make budgets for each year. I call attention to a small team here that may not be a small team. It is known as the School of Health for Schools. The bill for financing is shown in this section on page 5. 283 on the budget bill, by permission of the President: 50 million is low. K. if you are transferred to 872 Icelandic loan fund to meet an increase in the cost of your services... Now it is true that the main income supply of a majority of the budgetary committees is to reduce funds to the loan fund by reducing the number of loaners. This is interesting, since assistance to students in the country is being reduced by taking off the so - called rural strength, and how can the cost of management be increased if such applications fall in LIN? That sounds odd. Mr. President. Over the past few years, there have been reports on the need to support Icelandic in a digital world and to make it possible in our dealings with computers and computer - controlled devices. On May 12, 2014, at the 143th legislature Parliamentary Recontraction on the Use of Icelandic information technology was adopted by a digital legislation programme. A committee was set up to produce a program for making Icelandic currency in digital information technology and contribute to its use in that field. A report entitled The Icelandic language of a digital age is the product of a major European project, META-NET, which lasted over 2011-2013 and covered 30 European languages. There they examined the language language language language for 30 and electronic support. The conclusion of this survey was that in the United States, 30 languages are now being handled in the second degree. In the spring of 2015, the Language Fund was set up as a contribution to this project, but now it receives only 30 million, a third of what the committee proposed. If we were to spend 200 million years for the next five years so that we did not miss the fast technology. It needs to be treated quickly and amazed that this case is not getting more attention in the budget where the secretary of finance himself made it a special topic at the October Independence Party meeting, as well as to which the Ministry of Education and Culture declared it very clearly on the day of the Icelandic language to be a good support to the project. That's the stuff. It seems that the administrative part is having difficulty allowing the State Radio to carry out its role in peace. A RUSH board met with a panel of funding committees and realized that the plans to lower the radio fee on a second time would translate counterless changes in the activities of the one nation's One Lightmaker in the country owned by the public and work in the public sector as well as in contracting all the projects. The reduction will reduce the activity of RUS to such an extent that the legal function of the Agency will not change any of the 60 million that come into the budget because of the increased numbers of citizens. In my opinion, the stage is bad for the communication and creation of civilization in the country, careful and independent reporting, and critical of political and social issues. It is important to provide as much of the language as possible. The bill does not expect to meet the local financial demand for translocation of disabled persons. The report for 2013-2014 shows that the situation is negative to 1.2 billion. Even today, rural communities feel compelled to return the issue to the State, which makes it more likely that services will get worse and thus increase the standard of living for individuals. It is certainly an agreement that we hope to make between the state and the community, but no income is expected there, either in equal funds or anywhere else, to meet it. The government has disregarded the law to establish laws about the NAPA, services to disabled people. It is in accordance with the opinion of the local government that cooperation with the government in this area is not the way it should be, and I encourage the government to bring a fair suit of paint. Sadly, the government has failed to live carefree nights of the elderly. This was shown in a very thorough answer to my inquiry to the health - care minister. The number of elderly ones will increase rapidly over the years, so it is important that society is ready to accept the resulting changes. As the situation is now, the government gives wealth and encourages a second smaller section of the government to provide practical, well - funded future solutions for this important issue. The government lacks complete vision of transport, and there is no transport plan. The transport board supervises the process of transport, but the Council is now implementing a policy-making program for the 2015-226 season as well as a work programme for its first four-year period under law. Clearly, it is not up to us to blame ourselves for the fact that the plan will not end by itself enough to make the plan as we all know it. The reason for the failure of the plan is, as previously said, a lack of policy development and the future vision of the government. Its suggestions contain 100 million. K. the increase in funding to strengthen the country's road system beyond the sum of the budget bill, which is sufficient for the upcoming projects. That leads to 200 billion. K. The expansion of the road construction programme, but the projects that are listed there, at least, remind me not of the priority list of the Road model. It would be interesting to know how they were selected. Good transport is an important part of national security, important urbanity, and the need to secure community infrastructure. Some parts of the country are faced with such a serious financial shortage that they cannot properly drive public transportation. Clearly, the problems of all of them will not be solved by the contribution made by the greater proportion of the legal committee. Part 2 is important to the government to present a public transport bill as soon as possible to solve this problem. The failure of the government in financing of tourism has been in line with the lack of policy and its future vision in the media. The fund is funded but not in financial terms, but, as we know, financial support is to be a correctional law and financed by unexpected activities, while financial contributions are put forth and financed by the government's policies. The government has turned it around, against the aims of a budget. Unregistered budgets and agricultural rescue efforts have been used in budgets as well as in detriment of all plans. Funds for 2015 expected 146 million. K. To the project fund. On budgets for the same year dolls up to 850 million. K. Added to the project fund, then 22 more. A similar plan was set up for the last budget bill as well. The 2016 budget bill expects 149 million, so it was started again in a comparable way, but that amount was raised to 749 million. K. for this discussion. Then, more and less upset by the late production of financing, which has not been taken into account by local planning needs and the expense share of rural and landowners, is way too high for them to enjoy, some of them, not earning their investments and possessions. The latest part of this category is still one committee, the tourist control centre, which takes over some 80 billion. K. without evidence that the existing options could not be further advanced. As the government took over the administrations, the financial contributions made to the international parishion and thus showed its view of a former government policy to restore the decision - making world to the province. 400 billion were used to provide funds for the international parish projects. K. in 2013, but the first act of the government was to cut them down quickly to 15 million on a budget bill for 2014. After much resistance to the government and to local authorities, the contributions were raised to 100 billion. K. and on budget bill 2015, we returned to 15 billion. K. A donation was raised between discussions to 100 million. The bill, as previously indicated, contributes to 145 million, which, in the opinion of my share, is seen in the nostrils of a cat for eight parts of the country. The 2nd. 35 million were put in place. K. In cultural agreements with rural areas, but financial contributions to national cultural work have greatly been made, as the minority has been tireless to point out. Instead of getting the money and working according to the parish plan, more of the legal committees are pulling out specific projects and putting in additional financial items. In fact, the majority contributes to what is supposed to be part of the parish program, just a schedule, but it doesn't put it in the big pot and divide it out. There are special committees with representatives of the administration parties who offer suggestions on a number of projects that would undoubtedly be excellent, rather than using the democratic methods that would identify the parish plans. They are also characterized by democratic practices. The lack of professionalism and the lack of vision is reflected in this round of budgets and a view of the fragmented areas of the country in this cut - down or poor budget. The left movement ◯ The green supply encourages the government to give up these plans, to take over, and to build up for the future in the scattered, open, and democratic areas. Finally, Mr. President, I'd like to say that I've mainly killed on many of the faults and shortcomings of the budgetary bill, as the lesser part of which often does. I've done a big thing, but the bill isn't meant to build up and strengthen the interiors of society, as I thought it would be. The government continues on the same path toward flat tax policy despite the fact that such factors are an obstacle. This may best be seen by the obsession of the present government that the once-a-half-fold tax system, regardless of its consequences for the different income groups in the country, reduces the fishing costs of large - scale fishing in one of the most profitable fishing roads, and does not extend a modest wealth tax on all the richest individuals in the country. The pay-off section of the budget shows this in the starving policy for the health and education institutions of the country, the pensioners and the public institutions needed in the country. Clearly, this policy is not determined by the need for public economic management but by a conscious, ideological action designed to undermine the community of equations and cohesion that has characterized the Norwegian nations in recent decades. As we have considered, the next year's policy is secret and clear to create a society in which the consumption is so low that the welfare community is in danger. Such fundamental changes in Icelandic society should not be forth silent and silent. They will be discussed, both from the left green and from the public in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u96	A respectable president. This speech was not surprising. Hv. A senator prefers to see death and demon and that everything is black ahead; which is not, as the people know. I also direct a senator to do that, like what he's doing. paritaprevir The new Oddný Harðardóttir, to review a table in the committee list of parts dealing with RUS issues. It was this government that raised the radio rate to RU, but it did not diminish. It was the first government to decide that it would be 16400. in 2014. That government raised it to 19,400 K. and then down to 17,800 bucks. I'd like to ask the senator why the lesser part keeps performing all the wrong things in RUS. Why is it not possible to tell the truth from this platform? Why is it impossible for life to do so? Is this to mislead the people of the land? Or is there something else?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u97	Mr. President. No, no, no. Senator, that's all there is to it. I didn't give up any numbers, I want to point them out. It belongs to the chairman of the budget board. I didn't mention any numbers in my speech. I've also read the majority opinion. I have also listened to the representatives of RU come to our house and express myself about the situation. It has come to pass, and I am totally behind the view that the NUV feels that it is not possible to run into the funds that are paid by the current government, regardless of what the chairman of a legal committee feels they should be able to do. So we're just gonna have to go into the definition of the role of RUS. That's for sure. If there is to be something other than it already is, then why? The chairman of a legal committee is simply suggesting that this be done. But the RuV, the director and director of SpVVV, has said: "It's not enough. That's what I'm doing. I haven't mentioned here any numbers, or when or what, like, dropped. A senator implied. But it is obvious that the money on which the law is based, i.e. that the price should be dropped, from 19,000 to 16,400, doesn't work, says the Commissioner VOLV. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u98	A respectable president. I believe it is the duty of members of Congress to tell the truth and accurately here in this symposium. It was this government that raised the radio rate to RU after the previous government was going to cut it down to 16,400k. in 2014. Let's get this straight and stop talking about this half-time here. Another half - truths in the matter of the senator: It was good for her to publish this table on page 20. 8. Then it becomes apparent with regard to the fishing policy, since the left groups are very upset that this government has dropped the price of hunting, that it comes in as an increase in revenues from a government fund in the form of a income tax. The bill 2016 suggests that the cost of fishing is 7,830 million, which is exactly the same as the previous government collected in a hunting reserve in 2012. I'm asking you, what's the problem? Here is the 2013 reference number 13.5 billion as a sacred number. It was an election year, and the left party had to show off to voters because they always wanted to change the fishing system, so don't forget. [[The president calls.]] Let's discuss the facts here and thank you for this table.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u99	Mr. President. Just to show this table, if the senator can't read, it's here in 2012/2013 12.8 billion. [[Up front.]] - There's a catch in the years of fishing, a respectable President. [[Up front.]] That's what we were talking about. It's EBITDA, corrected for hunting fees. This certainly is true in that regard. But I'm pointing out why. According to a senator, this has been shown to be a significant reduction in fishing costs, and this is because the government's decisions have taken in order to reduce the cost of hunting. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] Hunting costs can be calculated in different ways, such as whales. A senator should know. When it comes to bringing something to the state funds, let us not mix the fishing fees on the other hand with income tax. There's always talking about the spread being given in the form of a income tax. We're talking about hunting fees. We're not talking about the income tax, like here--no, no, a respectable president, that's not gonna happen. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] The decision of the present government is to lower the price of hunting. [[The president calls.]] [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u100	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her committee opinion and speech. Hv. A senator became frequent, and many refer to the current government as giving up money in some way. I'd like to ask, then, because during the last term, the state was specifically involved in the fact that it was critical that banks were not being addressed, etc., why did it happen during the last term, as a matter of fact, by aside from paying bank taxes to the swelling farms? I know that comes the answer: it wasn't possible, it was so difficult, the library hadn't been shaped, etc. But now that it has become recognized, during the last two years, this library had been shaped. Why did the then government give up money? Is it not positive that during this ideal period, we have just been dealing with the demands through that tax and have added them? I would've thought it was a good thing. A senator to add to his list of ways in which the present government had given up on money. The present government has been gaining income at the beginning of this terms and has done what the previous government did not do and thus gave up money during the last term, if you use verbal debates. Senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u101	A respectable president. Most of all, I regret not bringing up questions that I was going to direct to. Senator. I have to do this in my next speech. I thank him for this. I'd like to remind you why the government of Sigmundur Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla, can collect this tax, would like to recall it. A senator, and what position of the present government class was when the thrones were placed upon it. [[The money capital?]] Yeah, I'm sorry, the currency head. It is true that perhaps during the past year, the tax could have been collected, as it happens. Yet, it is, indeed, primarily that way, like the oar. The senator mentioned and expected to receive an answer, that the trunk was not there, and it seems to me that it has been difficult to calculate until now. At the very least, this government has failed to succeed as far as the tax is concerned and has been waiting very long for it to be done. [[The president calls.]] Still hasn't succeeded. Even if any law has been approved, let us not forget it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u102	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator was confusing here when she talked about the currency capital. Apart from the swellings of the fallen banks from paying bank taxes during the last term, there is nothing to do with the currency heads. That's a different story. I'd like to say again, "When." A senator admits that it might have been possible last year to tax the swellings of the fallen banks, why did the former government abandon that? Why is this not stated in the commission to give up income and money? The first government gave up income from the dead bank residents. Then, when it comes to the currency lords, who are other discussions, and dealing with the demands of the fallen banks, I think it's a little poor to come here and say that we're not dealing with the dead bank residents. Especially in the light of the night. For example, a senator, her company, and the government antiquities before the last election said that over the head could be dealt with the swellings of the fallen banks and that they would return something to the community. It is the same government that handed in to the claimers two banks before the invasion of investment banks and business banks, for example. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I think it's a bit of an inexpensive presentation that was the red thread through the speech of the dog. Senator, I can't help it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u103	A respectable president. There may well be a problem. A senator thinks I'm talking about something cheap. But it must just be so, I've had that opinion like a dog. A senator knows, of course, who does not like his opinions. When we talk about selling money, it's because it's still possible to make those incomes. But as for the bank tax, I was not in the last government even though I was a deputy, so the stock was not fully known and was unknown, as the senator would know if he wanted to meditate on it. First and foremost, I'd say what. A senator has to watch these big election promises that have changed from the past. What we criticized were the heavens that were supposed to come and have not yet come. It's a crash of another election, looks to me, by means of the budget bill presented here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u104	President. There are a few things I could see. First, it's the insurance bill. It is divided into a job insurance bill of 1.35% and then a general insurance bill of 5.9%. There is also the need to consider which section of the insurance bill is reduced to meet the employee's needs and the like, where the main share of the overall insurance will be paid in pension and accident insurance. Yeah, unemployment's gone downhill, but it's only cost 1.35%. Added to that, there is a wealth tax on the country's highest holding in order to finance hospitals. I'm not quite sure that there's always the right kind of funding in that case. Then I would like to commend only those who have spoken of digital language. This is so that an electronic dictionary for New World Translation is not available, i.e. It exists but it must not be released, which I find very strange. There's a few more things I'd like to mention in my next answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u105	Thank you. The senator's answer. In terms of the insurance bill, it has been called for further reduction. Among other things, it has been said that since unemployment has been reduced, the opportunity is further reduced. You know, about the hospital funding. Of course, there is only a difference of opinion as to whether the proposal that the left green has presented itself here and there. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is the first transporter to be taken by, or not. We have felt that it is a simple way to do so, and it is very clean to have tax on this project. I think it's primarily political opinion about whether it can be done or not. Of course, there are many other ways to go. Regarding digital technology, it is very important, and that matter really gets very little attention. There is always some specific subject that takes all the space, but this is very important, for example, that our conversation here would be taken up immediately and recorded instead of having to have it written up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u106	President. With regard to the funding of the health system, the sugar tax was mentioned. When he was removed, it was mentioned that he was not a consumer, as if it were the main issue. Of course, he is not meant to reduce his consumption but to pay for the health benefits of the diet intake. In fact, it would be a preferred tool for implementing it as a price for an earmarked health system rather than for the combination. Then about the university. The committees are official granting strength. High schools and research projects are in most places funded by government funding, even in the United States. It is said here that we will be a little more freer in this subject, promoting innovation, and so on, but we need to take a good look at it in this room to strengthen the university research work because it has worked best. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u107	Mr. President. I agree with that. We need to do a lot of research and other such projects in the schools of our country and especially in colleges. I think it's very important because it's where the sceptres come from, like the otter. A senator mentioned. I've felt like it was the most symptomy thing in my life. A minister of education in this context that he is always making new funds instead of promoting the existing funds. This subject has been a frightening exorcism. It's interesting to talk about public health taxes as a market, just as the alcohol charge or something is a market for specific preventive measures. It has been the tendency of the management department to say that we should start our income rather than plan it. There are conflicting opinions about that. A lot of people think that if this goes into the big box, they'll be out of income and that they'll be assigned to a financial minister each time. But I think it's an idea worth looking at like so many others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u108	A respectable president. We'll discuss the biggest winter case that's under the law, and I have something to say about it. The first thing to note is that expenses are being increased considerably, and this is, of course, because collective agreements have been made during the year that increase expenses. But, in 2014, there are no significant requirements and nothing like what was in the bill. There are quite a number of modifications made on the part of the greater part and the government, and in the end it is estimated that the remainder will be just fewer than 11 billion, which is very small, I would say. I assume, however, that the largest part of the country's bank figure is that it becomes bigger than expected to be placed at a table. However, it may be asked, " Is there no opportunity for me to have only a handsome share of money and to go faster in paying off the debt of the state? ' What interests me and has caught my attention on the financial work, i.e. I feel that the position of the committee at it, and perhaps the less part, and what it looks like, is that I don't think the work is quite good enough. The financial bill is the first item proposed until autumn, and it is as if it has hardly come from the printery when changes are made. It is not common for bills to enter the council and secretary who carry the bill themselves to make significant changes. Usually, it is during the hearing of the council that the adjustment is made. I think this indicates that policy is not clear enough. Apparently, in July they haven't decided how much money they're going to stake into law and health or what it is now. I wondered how we're going to work under the new government laws if we can't have better policy than this, because that's where we're going to think three years ahead and five years ahead. I was disappointed with the work and felt that it was no better now than it was at the first government financial bill. Things went on, but you had an understanding because a new government may need time to figure it out. It went a little better last year, but I really didn't like it at all. We then waited a very long time for the changes in the proposals of the majority of the committee. As a matter of fact, I want to thank you for receiving the government's amendment and for the transformation of more things. I think it's important to be able to see where things come from. But we didn't get the motions of the greater part till Saturday, and it was a challenge, I'll admit it, to complete the committee's opinion for today. I would've taken a little more time, but that's the way it is. [[Up front.]] I imagine you have to add the committee's opinion to the 3rd. What you've simply forgotten because time ran away. I think it's very important that we somehow try to improve this process, and I'm pretty sure that the more part will agree with me on that. That's not good enough at all. I'll make a little bit of the case in my committee party involving the state's pension fund. We do well in our service to other nations, and it is good, but we are concerned about how much commitment we make to the Kingdom treasure. Just before the turn of 1999, the financial ministers and NlR and Pension Funds of Nurses wrote about the presupposed financial debt and the collection of state funds on account of the agreement were less than 232 billion with the acquired growth by the end of 2014, of which there were 205 billion at the start of the year. If these depositors hadn't come to pass, then in 2016 and 2018, all of the Pension Fund would have been invented. Then all the funds in the fund would have had to come from the treasury after that. It was good, then, that the pay began to be paid, but these extra payments delayed the job until the year 2030. So instead of starting to pay for it next year, we have to start paying 'em back in 2030 because that's when the funds will run out, and the government fund is naturally behind responsible. He would then have to pay 6 billion a year since 2030. It is not necessarily fun to put money into this, but it is very irresponsible if we are to send this account into the future indefinitely and have our children pay for it because, in fact, it is a service we enjoy today, and we just have to accept the need to pay these fees from government employees. This needs to be dealt with, and I know that there is an understanding of it among all categories. In the Pension bonds, they usually lack the commitments of the A League because the Ministry of Economics doesn't bring them to book. Of course, this is also true that when the time comes, the wealth of the Kingdom is fully responsible for it. The A Company has become negative, but by the end of 2014 it was negative by 9.6% of the total commitments. The committee has a table over these pension bonds. However, there is a positive positive result of a revised future pension plan in the Icelandic labour market, and the idea is that there will be one consistent pension system in terms of both public and public markets. I am very close to being comparable in pension rights to people regardless of whether they work in public or public markets. There's also action to be taken. The nation is growing older and needs a pension age. Of course, this is done in stages and takes a long time, so it is urgent to start with as soon as possible. Since then, we have been considering the committee that has drawn our attention to the efforts of some members of the community to pay in a public pension fund, and it cannot be seen that there is any rule on who can pay in and who can not. This raises questions about equality. In terms of individual teams in the bill, I have to mention the tourism budget and how incredibly ill the established governments have managed to handle this budget, number 04-555. Since the start of a new government in 2013, this point has always been underestimated, and the government has repeatedly requested more money for each year's budget. Last day, we were discussing this at a vote on the funds. As noted in the discussion, funding may be guaranteed by unexpected and unpredictable events, but it is not a means of financing projects that the government oversees on budgets. If I only run the story, there was a budget for 2015 only to assume under 146 million. K. In the project fund, and that criticized the memory of the item. Not many months since the budget was approved, the government announced a total of 850 million. K. In the fund, and that's the amount we just agreed on today, or not I, but the Allied signed for today's budget. So you would have thought that there was a need for money in this fund, that it was relevant to building wood at tourist places. However, the 2016 budget bill expects an estimated 150 million. K. Happily, that amount was raised for 2. Um... um... actually, up to about 750 million. K. and then dropped to 490 million. K. Except for the increase of the innkeeper fee. So you can, in effect, rejoice that governments have seen their faces and are now setting financial resources that are good enough, and we will probably not see this team in next year's budgets. We've also been discussing that the fund's distribution rules have to be adjusted so that about 50% of rural development is not required by rural communities, most of which are rural communities, because if the project is important, 50% is simply too high. I know this is an understanding, but I don't know if it's been changed. It is very important that if it has not already been changed, it will be done as soon as possible. We've been discussing this with the Ministry and good if not also the Minister. The Participation program was a project that a new government cut down as soon as it entered power. I think there's been a race. It is often a desire to change what the previous government did because it did not have the idea or I don't know why. It was interesting to attend a district week after the 2014 budget was established, as it was found, on the contrary, in all rural areas, that men were very at odds with the cut-off of a national parish program. This is a procedure aimed at bringing power to the local people, bringing the funds home in the province, also forcing people to sit down and prioritize and direct money on a particular project that is good. I'm surprised that the government doesn't put much more money into it and let the national and local parts of the country decide on how the work is done. The budget was 400 million. K. under budget for 2013. The new government is moving down to 15 million. K. On the budget bill for 2014, it rose to 100, and you understood it to hold water and then to add next year, but again a proposal was made by 15 million. K. a contribution to the budget bill for 2015. It was so up to 100 million. K. 2nd over. The bill now puts 145 billion on the line. K. Then came a motion of 35 million. K. which is involved in cultural agreements with rural areas. That's a good thing, because it depends heavily on my country's cultural contributions, as I have. Talk to the highest. Minister of Education and Culture at the Hall of Congress. It was a good thing, but I'm calling the government to look into whether the national parish program and that procedure is not a good way to direct funding to the right places instead of bringing such a change proposal as we get here where the more part, few people, is to make decisions about all kinds of projects without perhaps not having them, well, what am I supposed to say, until there's a lot of information. There is reason to be concerned about university and high school status. Expenditures per student at both school levels are below the average OECD state and much lower than in other countries. At the same time, we run a basic school system that's more expensive than average in OECD countries. A national review published a report on high school status in 2014, including 2014. pointed out that the calculus of high school would be revised. It would be too complicated and omnipotent, and it would not be used as a practical control device. That was last revised in 2003. It was also directed to the Ministry of Education and Culture that the pay scale of the calculator would take into account the actual cost of the school where pay is, of course, the biggest cost. The first must be added, for the model is a way to try to distribute limited resources in a fair way, and it includes all kinds of things, such as school size, age of teacher should be there, and more. Just as what happened in the 2015 budget was to make a donation to each student, the student's ratings were reduced by 916. The pay was increased, but the level of students decreased. It was thought that because of less early years, high school students would be reduced, and then, as we all know, students in book studies at 25 years of age and older made it possible to complete student studies with ways other than high school. What was very critical was that there was no analysis of the effect this might have on us. Of course, high school may take the students if they want to, but statistics show that there are far fewer students of this age who are studying today. Since high school status is very narrow, they cannot get too many students, which, of course, are the last ones of 25 years and older. It was also needed to prove that there was some savings. I find this kind of operation to be critical of without providing both economic and social analyses. The budget bill says that a comprehensive policy for university and scientific activities is being developed until the next five years, which will be laid to the foundation when decisions in favor of the university work are taken. It is good for such work to be done, and not later to be happy, since university jobs in Iceland have paid for the lack of policy, and it seems that random decisions often happen. In February last year, a minister of education ordered a committee to review the benefits of the cooperation of the three universities in the northwestern district. That committee will have returned the results, I have not yet found them online, but I have read somewhere that the results would compromise. What I think may be critical is that they are calling on individual schools according to the way they enter the ideals at the same time that policy is being won for the entire university of the country. We also know that university status varies greatly. It has been difficult to find a solution to the problems of high - management schools and even to have a high - quality audience, such as the College of Agriculture at Hólar, but also the University of Hólar, which is not so bad at all. It is very important that these matters be resolved. It's going to be an endless story, and I don't really want another report from the State Review of these schools, it's getting all right. Either the operation has to be changed so that it can fit in with money or that it can be added. It's just the two things that are available. I also think it is important that the financial contributions the university receives reflect the government's emphasis at any given time and ensures that the colleges can do their duties, as the situation is today, that we have an endless amount of money both in the budgets and with adjustments to the financial bill, and I don't feel that it's acceptable. Colleges like all government institutions must be able to plan ahead and shape policies, but with the practices we practice, they are made very difficult. In many lands, conditions are very bad, as we have seen. There's been a lot of cutbacks in the past few years, and the road system suffers. At the same time, however, the number of foreign tourists is increasing. In some places, molds are unable to do so. The situation is also disturbing, and we heard the presence of members of the local community meeting with a financial committee that all of the rural areas, the telescopes, had something to say about the situation and complained about it. The same applies to the U.S. airports. The adjustment of the proposals increases the funding for maintenance and flight, and it is a cause for rejoicing. However, a much larger budget would have to be made on both the newest but also the maintenance. Then there is winter service, which seems to be repeated and hard to estimate. This is not really expected to increase the amount of money at least a road transport, despite the fact that in the Government Treaty of the current government, transport improvements will be carried out with the emphasis on network connections. Sets are 235 million. K. to make roads in scattered regions for changes and this will be sufficient for a dose. This is not really a lot of money on roads, which is, of course, an expensive case. Hence, there is concern about how little money is put on road transport right now, and of course you must criticize the fact that new methods of transportation have not been seen. I'd like to be happy to know that there was money in the optics. I had written a long chapter on the importance of the land's light - leading noise. [[Take it up: Commend...]] Yeah, that was just a nice move. This is not a project that can be assigned to some 100 million each year. It's just gonna have to be done, it's all about working out of the country, tourism, this is a security issue. This is 5 billion in all, but this project can be classified as transport. It is only vital and good that there is more money in the project, so hopefully the next year's budget will continue. [[Up front.]] The birth lagoon. It has to be said that it is disappointing not to expect extra funding in a breeding stock, except for economic influences. The sea was cut down after a crash, and a roof was placed on a maximum ore. According to employment agency sources, less than 46% of fathers and 90% of mothers were paid in 2010. The fund is funded by a share in insurance, and this share was cut down significantly on budgets in 2014 and money that were to flow to the fund made available to other Kingdom funds. The songs that Iceland and I passed in the year 2000 regarding the birth and fathers' worm were very far - becoming, and a very large step in the equal struggle. I lived in Denmark during those years, and there was not much discussion about Iceland, but this law was found because Dan and they were wondering about it, and they couldn't take the same steps at the time. It is not good for us to have failed to make sure that our fathers take the birthmark of a baby's womb. Once the roof is low and the men have a higher purchase than the women, it's just that the family needs to watch who should take six months and every three months, and the woman may be more likely to spend more time at home with her baby. Let's hope this thing gets pulled over. That's not good. I'd like to mention the loan fund of Icelandic students. The fund is reduced, and this is clearly so that borrowers are expected to be reduced during the year. Somewhere there was a tablet, I wonder if it's on the budget bill. I think the lowest amount the fund has received in the last five years is 8 billion per year, the amount it has never been as low. I think it's kind of amazing. I need to check it again because it can't even fit. But there is much complaint that the progress is too low, and we have heard many students abroad say that Icelandic students can endure into higher education unless they have a much better backland. In the bright future, we think it's time to revise the loan system from scratch. Today's situation is that there is no equal among borrowers. Those who take a short course of study pay all the credit while a person who decides to go to a doctor's school at 55 years of age may pay back only a small amount of money. For those who continue, it would certainly be more practical and justifiably to establish a basic study, and so loans, perhaps on bigger interest. I don't know exactly what's on the beach, because I've heard of the highest. A minister of education has said that the system needs to be reexamined. I think it's urgent to put on something quickly. Police and prisons are a group of paintings that have been much in the discussion, and we know that police officers have been greatly cut off and that the police are underseaded. It is very important that the police have the resources to take part in the field ministry. In the capital area, a number of policemen have not kept up with population growth, and it is often difficult to watch. In many parts of the country, the police feel that they cannot maintain an acceptable safety level. There is one issue in this relationship that has caught my attention, and it is that in the Orient, where there are many ports and the Norwegians come to the Seyans' fun, there is little monitoring, for example. No drug dog in the East. It is flown between the two when it is thought to be needed. These harbors would require much more monitoring. Some 400 million are improved. K. and it's good, but there's still more to it. Many police authorities also deal with business halls and may even have debts, and they must work on them. In terms of the prison situation, I realize that they are headed for disaster. It is an important step to open up a new prison next year, next spring hopefully, but I can't see in the budget how to finance that business unless other prisons are closed. At the same time, 500 people are waiting for the execution. This is a group of paintings we would like to make for a counter-importation. I have to say, once people have been waiting for a year to decommission, it's a question of whether we need to write a review or what we're going to do because it can't go that way. It is simply a violation of human rights if people cannot serve a sentence. Also, ask: Do we have a criminal policy that comes out of the map? We should clearly stress reformation and measures such as serving sentence under electronic supervision. I trust it's being examined at the State Department. If the prison agency doesn't get more money, she gets something for a little change, got something in this morning's budget, I'm afraid it's not enough. This is a matter that needs to be considered. Health issues. It is true that there has been an increase in health support during the past few years after the crash, but there is no clear problem. We have placed relatively little money in the access system of health care services, i.e. such things as shopping, housing, and so forth. The country's share is the lowest in the OECD countries. It has been said that there has never been more money available to health care today. You're right if you're looking at the crown and you're not going to change. It's good that 30 million people will be evaluated for land hospital management, and I'm hoping that it will show black in white how the business has developed. When people watch the crowns, we're putting more money on the Land Hospital now than we did five years ago, but we have to take into account the increase in salary and salary and the like, and we've also got to look around to see if the number of jobs has increased, whether more than one year's work is under, and so on. Then I found a magazine from the Haust Room that interests me but it shows health expenses as a factor in GDP. I find it interesting to see that they are actually just over 7% in 2014, and that is comparable to 2007 and 2008. In 2009, the percentage was 7.5% and, of course, due to the collapse of land production, but this rate was not reduced to the level of health costs. This is one way to consider health - care expenses, and I always enjoy comparing ourselves with other nations. If we compare ourselves with the North countries, all the countries of the North will put more than we do to health care, except Finnar. This does not mean that if you put more money in the jury, they will necessarily get a better service. That depends on how money is spent. Still, there is a clue. The domestic affairs of the Land Hospital have been in the discussion by means of moisture, molds, leaks, and incompetentness because the hospital is expelled in many buildings in several places. Hospital maintenance projects are enough to cope with the problem. Since 2007 to 2015, we have provided nearly 2.2 billion just for maintenance. The bill now expects 477 million. K. in maintenance. There is an amazing amount of money that will be maintained and you will regret it because we are building a new hospital. I think, no matter how you calculate back and forth, it will always be practical to try to speed up the construction of a new land hospital. The figures I have show that between 2007 and 2016, there have been nearly 3 billion in maintenance. In fact, we are not taking the money that has been taken care of by the hospital's funds, and they are also significant. I don't have any information about it. But I know that money has been taken off business to support it because contributions have often been inadequate. In fact, I have been able to add it to the opinion that according to a federal account, the survival of the past two years has exceeded half a billion. So in the last two years, we have placed half a billion over the budget for maintenance in the Land Hospital. I would recommend that the minister of health care allow the speed of the construction of a new hospital and the quality of the hospital's housing. There is also a growing need for new hospitals at the Akureyri Hospital and the Department of Mental Hospitals at the Akureyri Hospital to visit happy memories. We were able to see firsthand the situation there, but the surgeon's assessment puts it word for word, with the permission of a president: A mental - health department is still in provisional facilities, but she is a child of her time and does not meet today's demands. It is a very narrow and unfortunate area within the hospital building. All preparations have begun to appear, the lack of air and sanitation are unacceptable. These houses contain people who are suffering from a spiritual illness. National health institutions have been united, and hopefully they will eventually find some practical assistance. However, there are still some medical institutions that will not be renovated unless there is a significant increase in funding, a problem that does not go away spontaneously. For example, the Eastern Institute of Health is mentioned in the bill that has a substantial debt, and last year the Agency also lost a lawsuit, only 30 million. K. The bill. It needs to be addressed. We feel that there is a great advantage in providing health care as the first stop for patients. I think everybody agrees on that. There are many indications that increasing the application to the emergency department is due to poor access to health care. Government policies seem to be to promote health care and such measures as increasing the number of health professionals and increasing the service of psychologists at medical clinics, as well as the emphasis on home care. These are positive steps, but we feel that there should be a serious consideration of how health - care professionals can be improved to meet the needs of the clients and correct solutions. Of course, we know that family doctors and nurses play a key role in health care, but I think the cooperation of other professions would be of good quality. For example, the services of nutritionists should be better used than at present, especially in view of the fact that a part of the health - care system is due to life - style related diseases linked to increased immobilization and dietary restrictions. The same could be said of occupational therapists, physical therapists, and other classes that can play an important role in the prevention and treatment of health care, as this is not so that all who look for them need to see a doctor. Other health groups can be of great benefit, and in many places it is now that nurses filter out, so to speak, and direct people in the right direction. I think it might be considered with an open mind. We would like to remind you that it is very important to make the best use of modern technology to improve health care services and speed as possible a management plan. That is a matter that brought about a bright future and was approved. The Minister of Health has proposed a proposal for a hearing of a mental - health policy and a mental - health programme for four years. This is a very positive step, and I was surprised to learn that it was not the rule to have a mental - health policy and plan of action, but it was not. It's a suggestion. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, served along with others. The plan will be 112 billion. K. next year and a total of 562 million. K. in four years. When I was looking at this cost assessment, there were a lot of projects that were thought to fit within the framework of the budget. I have serious doubts about the possibility that this will be the case when you look better. I could really believe that this would require a lot more money if it was to be well paid. It's a good step, but I think people need to be more realistic. I came in at 30 million. K. a donation to assess the operation of the Land Hospital. That's very important, I think, and we've discussed it on the budget that there's a business of 50 billion, and we have no way of evaluating the way they're being handled. The Ministry is to monitor the Hospital, but the project is large, pay department at the National Hospital is probably bigger than the entire Ministry. I think it's very good to have your check up. I have no reason to doubt what the presidents of the Land Hospital have said at a meeting of the legal committee. I think it'll be good for everyone to see that this sort of assessment is done. What surprises me in this environment at the General Assembly, sitting on a budget board, may not be much more done by surveying institutions. The Ministry should monitor its organisations and we should monitor the measures, but we do not have the basis for that if we do not have data. I think you could do more of this and encourage it. I think that money is well spent. Of course, it takes careful action, getting the most qualified people, some driver to take it out, and thus giving them the impression that they are understandable. So I'm excited to see the results, which hopefully will help to reflect the need for a land hospital. All I want to do is make the subject of people who are disabled. Much discussion has been made about the cost of the ministry after the rural groups accepted services for disabled persons. We believe that the project has made financial contributions from a state to a rural society. There has been great dissatisfaction among many rural communities with their status, we have heard it on committee meetings, and in many areas there is a limp in the ministry. Civilians claim that new government services came about after the transfer of the non-final group. The transfer of the group has been re-evaluated and the work has been delayed, but the results are sure to be there. But I haven't seen anything in the changing proposal to expect a showdown next year, at least not on the budget bill, but maybe there's a difference between discussions. It is very important to conclude this, for you have felt uncomfortable listening to the fact that rural society is threatening to return a group of people like disabled people to be something that humans just pass. I don't think it's acceptable. It is also upset by those who use the NPA, a personal help. In general, rural society has not increased the agreements in agreement with collective agreements that have meant that users have either had to put their own safety at risk by cutting or violating the right of helpers for improvement. There are 50 people who have made such agreements with the local community and are part of an operation designed to make NAP legal options for the services of disabled people, as it was decided at the General Assembly by the law and the synonyms. This is a service that increases the ability of users to live independent lives, and it is our estimate that it is appropriate and should be as fair as an option for all disabled people. There is evidence to suggest that her experience is good. It may be noted that Iceland has not yet validated the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, and that should be a priority. I would also like to talk only about consumers, but it impresses me how little emphasis is placed on consumer business on the part of the government. The contributions to this group of paintings can be found in the budget bill, with three sentences written on page 362. We have a Netothal lab, which is an official surveillance agency and we receive 182 billion. K. ... bytheprogram. A consumer clinic monitors prices, consumer loan laws, law enforcement, and so forth. Then there are contributions to the Neythal Association. It's 8.1 billion. K. and based on a service contract that provides information services to consumers and, of course, they are also stakeholders, emissaries, and so on. These contributions have not gone up for years. The Ministry of Ministry also negotiates a service agreement with the consumers organization, which turns toward tenants and strengthens the organization in over 3 billion. K. This year. This was because at some point in life, rent requests had become the biggest case, and someone had to take part in it, and then this deal was made. Together it won't reach 200 billion. K., contribute to these two parties who are taking care of this class. In fact, there are other institutions that are partly involved in consumers such as the Contestants, the Post and Communications Office and the Food Organization, and even the Food Organization. However, we stand out as different from the northern states when this group and the government have always been financed when it comes to consumer protection, consumer instruction, and this subject. I'm just going to talk about the debt breakdown because it's not yet seen out of debt. This budget is expected to be 15.5 billion on budget bill for 2016. This is a decision made by the government in 2013 to spend at least 80 billion on paying off a portion of the home's financial mortgages. That way, I don't share in the expense of an apartment loan fund because of my borrowing loans. This animal operation should be some sort of correction due to the collapse of the fall of 2008 which resulted in an increase in the rate of insured loans. A bright future has repeatedly criticized these actions, pointing out that the damage caused by economic collapse in the autumn of 2008 will be improved in this way. On the contrary, this is really just a bridge and highly irresponsible treatment of public funds to share over 80 billion to real estate owners and, in all cases, incomprehensible that no property or income status has been taken into account. In fact, a home debt status had already improved substantially before these measures were carried out. She also, as we know, did not cover other valuable loans, such as loans to study, even though the success of the gang had the same effect on them. I decided to be curious about the high cost of these operations, which is less than 526 million. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I don't think that's much. In addition, financial institutions have been funded, but I don't know what the amount is. Now I've been tracking this committee party, and I've learned that in many areas the need and the welfare system suffers from cutbacks during the past few years. Many ministers have declared that they would like to see higher donations in various lawsuits, and that they have done so here at the Senate Hall and in interviews and in various fields, but the funds do not permit them to give more money in their lawsuits. Then I'd like to remind you that it was consciously decided to spend 80 billion, 80 thousand million dollars in exactly this operation. Then people cannot, excuse the language, a respectable president, complain that there is no money in high school, college, the welfare system, transportation, prison business, and all the cases in which we see that there is a need for money. It's, in my opinion, so incredibly stupid, that I don't really have a word that the Independence Party has been bought into the government and has left all its princes behind the responsibility of the individual and responsible management of public funds and what it is now. It was quite clear that it was no other group to go to the government with the forwarding party with this insane campaign code. [[Up front.]] Yeah. Hv. A senator can laugh, but that's just how he laughs. [[Up front.]] Yes, but that's my opinion, and I'm telling her that it was an irresponsible treatment of public funds and that these 80 billion could have been spent in such a much better way, including. to lower the debt of the state and to build infrastructure after a massive cutoff. [[Up front.]] But this is something the government is responsible for, and voters decide whether or not they will repay it. I'm just pointing out that I'm getting irritated when I listen to a minister who was here on the green button when this guy was under, complaining that there's no money in anything else. It's politics. It's a priority, and they made a decision, just to be told. A great deal of talk has been made about the exchange of income between the state and rural society at a meeting of the financial committees when the rural communities have arrived, and much dissatisfaction has been brought on by the other members of the community. They're trying to say that an item from the state is nowhere as small in the OECD countries as here. The European Union points out that if your community is to perform its legal duties, then income companies must be trusted. In particular, local communities believe that they should be reimbursed worth taxes whether by performance or by purchase of goods or by services, they are not able to apply tax privileges. Farmers should not pay capital taxes to the state. Farmers wish to be added to government tax institutions, such as insurance bills, hosting fees and traffic fees, and sharing in income income taxes, which many people and legislators accept in rural service but add little to the tax pay. In that case, they say that the insurance will not cut down, but locals are big payers. It was also an interesting point that some pointed to and went to Business. I think it was Hafnarfjörður that said it was a very high percentage, but since I haven't examined it further, I'm just suggesting it. In the short future, our views need to be considered for the division of states and rural communities, and that their communities have a point. It's a very heavy business for many rural communities at the same time as a government fund is handling the cow. It is not only possible to blame bad business for that situation, though it may be unique. There is also the fact that rural society, like nursing homes, has paid many of the government services and has been shown that the daily expenses from the government do not meet the natural cost of nursing. A public review published a fine report on nursing homes and directed the Ministry of Health to enter a service contract with all nursing homes, but it has been a failure. Government and share proposals are a very good package, and it's worth specifically mentioning a few things. The government suggests 75 million. K. to start preparation and design for a new office building at the General Assembly Hall. 3rd smaller things do not make a comment to that arrangement alone, since renting homes around the East is certainly expensive. I would also like to suggest that it will simply be built as new Algills because this hall is a child of its time, and it is not available for everyone. We couldn't have, for example. A wheelchair minister in this hall, who is narrow and small, so I thought, to remedy access issues, should build a new General. But as I say, we do not comment on the fact that this preparation will be carried out, but the following explanation raises questions, with President's permission: ▪ When preparing a project, the plans for building in the General Assembly shall be taken into consideration in 1918, as set out by the former State superintendent of Samúelsson's God, the former superintendent, and the plans for memorial events related to the coming anniversary of Iceland's sovereign year. We feel that a decision on the characteristics of the building should not be taken in financial deduction. Then it is not obvious how plans for memorial events related to Iceland's 100th anniversary are linked to a proposed building. I just didn't understand the caption there. A major part also suggests that Aldulis's financier's budget will be reduced, since he no longer has to pay rent. We believe it is important that an agent has the means to be able to do his job and, in particular, the initiative research and in the smaller part, put together a collective adjustment form. The majority suggest that a new office of government architects take over the role of the Ministry of Presidency will be established. I believe this change is uncertain and its purpose is uncertain. Already several members are seeing the business and maintenance of property owned by the state, and that can hardly be considered practical. We think it's better that this management is in one hand. I think today we have something called the superintendent of the state, which is then this new government property, so there's something called the Realty of the Board of Governments, and then we see the Landstics, e.g. Of his possessions and university on his property, it must be possible to find some additive effect there. Note, too, that we need help. The explanation is that financial provisions should be made to meet up with the accumulated management halls or to make sure that the next year there will be no business markets. This applies, e.g. to make contributions to the University of Hólar, the University of Bifrost, the East Bridge. That's 15 million. K. a donation to pay for the collected management property of Snortoro. I have to say, it's a concern to see this practice. We know that many agencies are dealing with a collection of management halls or a visible host house next year. But it is extremely important and exactly our job to ensure that equality is cared for when it comes to measures to get the institutions organized. The Ministry must ensure that the situation is stable and no further debt and monitoring and extramarital safety, and all of this must be guaranteed by the Ministry. I have to say, I haven't seen any analysis of the problems of these institutions outside of Hólar School, and I don't know how much of the stock gets to the conclusion that exactly these institutions need these money. I strongly criticize these tactics, and I feel that such donations need to be part of a larger unit. To some of the changes, it was said that it was important that some type of work be done to make sure that this will not happen again. It can't work this way. It's not a match. I would like to point out that there are institutions that have paid off their debt, and this has been done, so the Ministry has made a deal and kept the case in place from start to end. If the Agency is successful in three years, perhaps some part of it is dropped. They're here picking up some money, and I'm asking, "Why not this institution, why not the others? Why Snortota, why not something else? I don't think this is a good job. I'm not saying that these institutions are not all good paying for anything, but it's strange to me. I don't understand that a budget is getting involved in this. Last year, the greater part made many changes that turned into museum members. It is a project assigned to the 2012 Ministry that was to be set out in a professional way and thereafter until the work was done. The reason was that the provisional committees could be random, and it is very important that we make public funds available to us to be equal to what we can do. Last year, the majority gave the argument that the third sector had been forgotten. However, it was not the entire third sector that enjoyed the giving of the greater portion. This year's work is improved, and it seems that the old construction system is taking place, but much of it has access to budgets. Since the proposals were not available until December 5, I have had no time to examine them or to explain them and the basis for the decisions of the greater part. I think this process is a return to the past, and not in accordance with a policy established by a new government law that the Council is accepting at the same time as we discuss the budget bill. I'm disappointed. They also call attention to a number of suggestions presented on projects proposed by the northwestern committee. These are projects to promote urban development and to increase the number of employment tools in the northern part of the Western world. I'd say it's about 250 million. K. those who take tasks that include: on increase in resting areas at the Western Institute of Health, transport by the Minning Institute, construction of the Neo-and-proteer site at the Sea of the Year, a reliable survey of biodisil production by Metabose, and seal research. One team is 80 million. K. a donation to the northern tenets and a lack of explanation for what will be done accurately with the millions. We have an understanding of the problems that are faced in the northwestern country, but there are problems in many other territories as well. I don't think it's justified. There have been no groups of personnel and such settlements that know the most direct way into budgets. Then I would like to remind me of my country's application plan and the arrangement I once described, which I consider to be exemplary. I'd much rather have seen that money go into the national parish program. I find it easier to ensure equality, which must be the point of elimination when we share out public funds. Then there are some projects that simply fall under a competitive fund. It is a much better way to promote a competitive fund, perhaps deciding that a certain percentage of them will go to places that we can call fragile settlements or where there is some type of localisation. Then everybody's sitting at the same table. The smaller part makes changes in the proposals that we presented today and is about to advance into the national parish program, Land Hospital, College, and High School. And the stock of the stocks of the stocks, and commanded that the terms of the pensioner and the poor be added, and the increase of minimum wages. I'm gonna come in for a little bit. We'll talk about the bandor, and hopefully this week. A positive step is the removal of clothes and shoes and will hopefully improve the interests of consumers and support Icelandic commerce. I am not convinced that it is the right step to reduce the number of income taxes from three to two. We discussed it here when we were changing the values tax, moving the steps closer to one another with the goal of ending in one step as I understood, that the merit of the tax system was not good for balance, and I can totally agree with that. But then we have to have the income equation somewhere else, and it's in a step - apart tax system, I would think. Then, of course, it is surprising that there is no plan to lower the insurance. I understand the protests because of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u109	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's jealousy for the speech. This is a mere tone but a smaller section of the legal committee that has so far spoken. I am very happy that she shares her concern with a greater proportion of the Department of Pension Fund of the Government's Personnel. As I stepped in my story talk, we spend an entire chapter, like what it was. A senator points out, worrying about this development and that. Remember why. A student at university and high school, law enforcement, prison affairs, transportation, and fiber - optics, which are virtually in agreement with what is found in the opinion of more parts. I remind her that she feels that small funds go to the optics, but maybe that's what the Vodafone deal was put on for the RUS, just to be said. Hv. A senator only introduced the agreement made with the National Hospital and Health Minister and suggested a review of prison cases. Would be a what? A senator is not prepared to take out the business and business of other government institutions in cooperation with the Ministry to find out exactly what they need from finance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u110	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson has been discussing the prison case, because the state of Little-Sun is very bad, and we are not in the position of being able to get into our financial affairs exactly. But we've been talking about whether there's any reason why, for example, a State opinion would take out the situation on Little Test because a State Review will, of course, make checks to see if agencies can carry out their duties in accordance with the rules and regulations they're supposed to follow. Of course, there is also business management. It is usually a administrative discharge made by Government Accounting. I'd think it would be good if we went on more checks. We would agree on what we want to do, and we would try to get undisputed people, I don't know if they can be said that way, but we'll just watch who was assigned to do it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u111	Hv. President. That's where we agree with each other. I have talked very much since I was in the management group of the government that first the role of the institution must be defined by law, and then the managers and the business to be conducted in that institution and that the Agency should be persuaded that, if it has come out of its working area, which is so popular at a government agency, or added to capital if the examination reveals the need for it. I think it was a landmark agreement made at the Land Hospital in that they are all on the same page and they are not throwing claims back and forth, then everyone knows the basics of the budget at the beginning of the year. I'd like to ask you why. A senator about one thing I don't like. She and the senators of Birt's future have turned themselves on the debt of the Agency's forward - and - government system of debt as much as ever. They are speaking down to 100 of you. The money could have been used elsewhere by the people of Iceland who enjoyed it. But it was money that we applied directly to the demands that the former government did not have the courage to do. [[The president calls.]] Does it not consider it a positive step that the state's paying less for interest because people now have more in their home? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u112	A respectable president. I think we should see how we can expand our estimates of government institutions. As I understand this, we have a relatively stronger facility in Iceland than a weak agency. I have sometimes felt that the Ministry does not really have the resources to monitor its institutions. If they had, we wouldn't be able to get reports from Government Accounting that show the foundations year after year. With the debt robbery, we'll be, me and you. A senator, agree to disagree on that matter. I can't accept that we're spending money that way. But, yes, interest improvements are falling because the interests of the households are improving, that's right. But then I feel that we can also begin to discuss that we have a high interest coin here, and the government needs to pay compensation to those who buy housing because interest is so high. [[The president calls.]] I think we should discuss picking up a currency that would offer us a better interest rate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the record. There were many things, I thought, both good and perfunctory, in a sermon. A senator, e.g. The eco-efficient burden of public pension funds is about 3,600 million as a dog. A senator talked about it. I agree with what happened. A senator mentioned the pension fund. I agree with what. A senator when she spoke of criminalism. There's something we need to look at and feel that her approach to LSH was reasonable. On the other hand, he spoke. A senator a lot, and it's like music to my ears, plans, and the need to be careful. Now's the time. Senator on change proposal from my section. It is estimated that 4,000 million would be added to tax control. Then, some 8,000 million are raised by financial institutions. We know and have a rule that the Bank Office will decide. We also know that if the 4,000 million were stuck in hand, they would only be picked up because they did not need the money for the IRS, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u114	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. It's that way with my new proposal that they'll always be semi-complete because the smaller part doesn't really have any chance of making the budget. Of course, it would be best for us to do what we were doing. A senator who knows from Sweden, where the smaller part simply puts out his own budget and, in effect, can affect the way one gets caught in income and expenses. In fact, I am convinced that more money can be obtained through increased tax monitoring. I don't understand why we're not in the full light of it. I think we could do so much better. On the budget board, we had a very good meeting with the tax manager, who discussed these matters, and that was an amazing amount of money mentioned in that context. But I'll be honest with you, when you make some adjustments, they're usually put on top of it. If I was doing the budget bill from scratch, I wouldn't necessarily be adding to the business, but that's the way it is, and I'll keep up the money you can pick up. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u115	A respectable president. The additional contributions to the head of the tax research programme have been increased by 114% since 2007, while the government spending has increased by 73%. So it is not that this was not cared for, that it had not been added. I don't think it's very responsible, Mr. Honorable President. Likewise, we can make more money, but we are not applying the workload as a result. A senator often calls for it. Now's the time. True, a senator will begin more quickly when she criticizes her work. The legislature committee, she has sat and listened to localities, with specific requests, and has been tried to meet them as well as possible. Hv. Similarly, a senator makes a suggestion that I think is reasonable, and I've thought to support, but the same reasoning could be used, as it were. True, a senator has not done, with the same rousings that her colleagues in the government stand, but I think it's a bit of aggressor. The senator might be more reasonable in this, and I don't think the suggestions are credible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u116	A respectable president. Of course, there are extra incomes, too, that we don't call them, but I may remember personally changing, which are the loss of income tax in the next year, at the top of an intermediate level, about 5.5 billion. I also give myself the greater part - that was shown in the speech of a man. The head of the budget board is expected to make more money, in effect, know that the pay will be higher than expected in the budget bill. I also think that's why there's so incredibly small money left on the budget bill now, it's just very small, I can't remember if it's within 2%. That would be irresponsible, unless they know that there is a table for each other. We're about to get much more, we're getting some billions to profit from the Lands Bank, which is not part of the budget bill. Otherwise, it would be irresponsible to have a budget bill, since we have less than 11 billion left over. That's not very much.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the topic of discussion and its overview here. I completely understand that it's still irritating her that the forward party could have stuck with this crazy campaign code, so I'm using her word, I understand it would still hurt her. But I'd like to ask you why. A senator can't agree with me in that, because it's from the country now, that it's a very regional bill, I don't talk about these changes from the greater part of the country. Can we at least agree that after we have listened to 42 societies and other visitors to meet these communities? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u118	A respectable president. Yeah, it just really pisses me off that public funds are being spent to cover some people's mortgages regardless of their property status. I think that the debt was somehow a move from the region to the capital area because prices were much higher in the capital area and even more of them received subsidies. Is this land - based? Of course, I'm happy if something's inhabited, but I still want to work professionally. I want us to have some regional policy and strategy and work by it, but don't have experimental bites here and there. I don't think so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u119	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator who now has more experience in a financial committee than I do: What is required of a financial committee? Hv. A senator listens to all these communities, it's all autumn listening to rural society. If it is not to meet them, for what purpose? I think it's a little low, I can't say otherwise, when the North East American senators are shocked by the fact that something should take place in the northwestern state. Are we not on a small level when we find ourselves in some rivalry about it? [[The president calls.]] I'm ready to go over the average if we're going to sort out the budgets by votes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u120	A respectable president. What's a budget for? I'd like to see a budget as a much better surveillance committee than it is today, but not that much of it is sitting and spreading bites. I want to state that I criticized the highest level of criticism. Prime Minister for the deportations of some cultural grants by texting in 2013. The rest of it went into my district. I don't care about that, it doesn't matter. We have to be professional, and we're supposed to have certain policies, visions, plans and plans for how we work things, not biting things, not some experimental thing here and there, right, left. That's what I don't like about you. It has nothing to do with anything northwest, northeast, or south to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u121	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit for her history and the opinion of the committee, which is in many respects fine. It's good to sharpen here members of Congress and really the whole nation when it comes to pension bonds. It is good to draw attention to the fact that we have to get started on cutting up the Icelandic loan fund and making it transparent when it comes to sponsoring, etc. But what I'm worried about is the income gate of this case, i.e. Sometimes I feel like I'm in the mood. Congressmen would be more pleased to spend more money than their wealth. On the other hand, I also comment that a bright future seems to be against correcting the income tax system by dropping the taxation level, which was primarily to improve the interests of the intermediate class. I can see what this is all about. The senator's aim is to have the income tax system at least Not for the benefit of the intermediate class. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u122	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. We give a detailed explanation of our position on the income tax in the movie's Committee for the Future. You're right, I don't rule it out, but we're very skeptical that it's the right thing because it's an equation to have more income tax points. On the other hand, I'll agree that as the situation is today, you get up to the next level too quickly. For example, the lowest level would have to be raised. I don't think having three steps gives me an amazing misunderstanding. It's like the valuable tax proposals where we move the steps closer to each other, but I don't quite know what the basics are. Simplifying is if we're headed for one level of credit and we have everything there, but it seems like that's all over the place. You start with that, and then there's nothing more. [[The president calls.]] But, hey. A senator correctly understands that we are skeptical about this in the bright future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u123	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the record. Then I'm gonna pay for the insurance. I agree that being disappointed is, of course, that it is not reduced faster than it really is, but hopefully it will come true. Hv. A senator speaks of paying down the insurance fee, but at the same time, she speaks of sharing in the insurance, wanting to add extra money to the stock market, suggesting a substantial increase in social insurance insurance, etc. and all of this is financed by the insurance bill. I wondered, " How in the hell am I doing? ' A senator's plan is to increase the amount of funds henancourage, increase and increase the insurance and then share in the insurance. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not going together. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u124	A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate that what I listed, i.e. The local community's demand for a change in how the income exchange is then one of the things they call the insurance, they want to share in insurance, and even on expenses and other things, but I'm not saying I don't agree with that. On the other hand, I understand the demands of the local community that if the insurance fee is dropped, it has a significant impact on the rural population because they are the biggest wagepayers. But I am not necessarily convinced that my rural society is to be included in a bedside fee. I was simply counting these are the things they've asked of me, and we can say in the bright future that they have a point. So I might just be confused in the committee's opinion. Then I apologize for that. As I understand, I'm not an expert on the insurance bill, as I understand now, the insurance bill is really a large company for the state and part of that income goes into the state's budget, not on this limited project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u125	A respectable president. There are quite a number of speeches here, and many are on the rosary. However, I'm going to approach this project to discuss this financial bill in a way that is somewhat different from what has been done in the other discourses presented here. The general rule is that all talks have gone over where to increase expenses. I think that's the rule. I've heard an amazing number of speeches that what Iceland and I do wrong and have been doing in the last few decades is that when things go well, we lose ourselves on the government spending. We can have all the opinions of the government and some of it. Councilmen, etc. but I think we'd agree that it's breaking down. Why has everyone forgotten this? Why is there no why? A senator or no media, with any other honest exceptions, who may now be able to set priorities and take out what we do not need, perhaps take some of the most growing powers, and have not had to be saved? For example, during the last term, health institutions had to save, but we might say, " Why don't we just slow down here? [[Up front.]] Why isn't that discussion going on? I've already seen some suggestions. Government opposition and they can be interpreted as critical of the financial bill that I will ultimately support. I thought there might come something, but it's nothing. Here's what we've got. The chairman of the budget committee gave a speech and did not receive one criticism in this regard. During the last term, what was known happened, there was a big drop in income from a government fund. Everybody knows that. This was an understanding of it, and government spending was reduced. However, it was a special goal that public employees would not lose their jobs. True, this happened at one workplace, the Land Hospital, but they did not. The people in the general workforce lost their jobs. Happily, many were able to survive by going to other lands and by serving, but a great many became unemployed. We did not heed the advice that Persson Göran gave so delicately, first for the United Nations and then for the people, to maintain the level of employment, as the government did for us. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was in and suggested, doing what we could to maintain the level of employment. [[Up front.]] We did not do what we could better, build hospitals. The hospitals that we have built have already been a crisis of national life. I'm going to call attention to one thing that no one else has ever done, the institutions that grew, and when this huge drop of income at the state fund, the institutions of surveillance are the institutions. From land studies to 2011, we did not have a media committee, and no one really missed it. Why? Because she's not needed. It grows and thrives and has increased compared to its predecessor, a radio hearing committee, about 306% since 2007. The numbers are not high, but they still say something. Is there someone discussing this media board that has certainly not changed the media in Iceland? I also hope she doesn't, hope it will never be that public devices have editors on the media in Iceland, but it can be understood by its role that she can do so. Since 2007, the increase in financial security has been 203%. Now someone might say, "We have to have a proper financial check, prevent a crash, as it turned out to be in 2008. ' Although we had almost 2 billion people in this institution, she did not succeed in preventing the SKef case. There is no doubt that if we place much money in surveillance agencies, it will come back to something. Of course the institution does something, I'm not saying anything else, and I'm sure very much good. Yet, we must have the same requirements for these institutions as for basic services. At this time, the national spending has increased by 160% and 73%, respectively. A human working agency has 1.2 billion in a head chair or as a result of its own money. Then we can't understand why it's so expensive and difficult to build in Iceland. Do they think it might have something to do with this? Are we discussing this? No. If I was in a position of government, I'd say I'd be in the highest position. A government for not doing much on these matters. The equal office has grown by 140% since 2007. Is that not the ideal case? [[It's up to you, not in the government.]] Not the last time I knew. Maybe we're supposed to double it, drive it up to 300 percent. I'm sure it'll be a whole different life back then. We've got Food Agency, 135%. Marketing Authorisation Holder, 104%. Generals agent, 100%. I could continue, some institutions grow significantly now, in the time of that government. Of course, these numbers all exist, were they not combined because I took them together, and is not normal for anyone to say: " Wouldn't it be normal for us to make the same demands for our health - care providers as for the health - care system? I felt that the priority of the last governments was bad for putting the main emphasis on growing these institutions but cutting down on health matters. The government now has the priorities for health and pension without any doubt, but these institutions have not been normally required. Granted, we are not talking about major projects, mostly carpentry. There's an invitation going on and everything's fine with it. We may find ourselves somewhere where we can say, for example, that the matter is now, so that in the next ten years, there will be a 50% increase in the number of 67 years and 67 years. How can we best approach it? I think we'd find out we had to deal with all the issues. We would have to do what we are doing now, strengthen our health care facilities, make it more efficient. That's what's suggested in this bill. We can have all the opinions on politics, we have it, but knowingly, consciously and organizedly insist that personal health care means that individuals need to be paid more and not served, etc. I'm full of shit, and I'll admit that that language feels like down below all the caves. I have an excellent time here, and that's why I'm going to read an article by Oddur Steinarsson, an expert on family medicine, MBA and the director of the medical care of the capital area. This is a short article, and I hope they are. Senators who are communicating on these matters listen to her. If they refuse to listen to my reading, I encourage the person to read the article. [[Up front.]] It says, by permission of the President: ▪ For many years, health care has been on the run in Iceland. Medical care is scarce, and tenants fill the gap in all parts of the country. At last, there are positive signs of health building. After years of cutback, the capital area's health care is getting a little more money next year. During the years that follow, a significant increase in mental - health history is planned. A quality and payment system is being developed in the Swedish model, with the goal of funding to go where the need is most in order to strengthen public welfare. This system is based on a number of factors and it must be used by groups of ACGs from the University of Johns Hopkins. This is moving the quality and financing model of health care to be with them on a global level. Registration cases will be improved and quality-maker inserted into the system. Today, health care is being paid in four different ways in the capital area. The objective is to coordinate this better and establish a central review of clients. As is the case today, new health care providers who own and run the stations are planned to open up, as is the case in Low House Health and Health Care. We desperately need more doctors into our clinics, both back home and into our special school. It is hoped that this will be the case. Recent articles on the privatization of health care and, among other things, refer to the United States. Some of these articles have brought about ignorance or that analysts seem to be misleading the discussion. Sometimes you can refer to the Norwegian role models, where we live by boat. We have a system where experts other than family doctors can operate independently by contracting health insurance. In particular, for Norway and Denmark, this has resulted in the loss of relatively few family health professionals. There, family doctors have been working independently for a long time, but we actually have the reverse system in relation to them. In Sweden, a system modification was conducted 2007◯2009 to strengthen the system. There the competition was increasing and increasing the freedom to work independently. More than 200 new health - care professionals were opened in Sweden. Ideally functioning health care systems have done well and have strengthened the system. They have been a success in quality and service surveys, which have been a positive motivation for public health care. Family medicine specialists in Götaborg and the area have grown from 176 to 2009 to about 400 today. If we achieved this result, it would mean that we had 80 specialists, 37 of whom had the latest information. That number is not sufficient to fill the gap of those who retire in the years to come. For the results of the changes in Sweden, a large number of institutions have published reports on the results that are generally very positive, but there are certainly some factors that can be considered and adjusted. Karolinska Universalitet has regularly published reports on results in Stockholm. There the doctor's visits at the health care clinic increased by 28% in 2006◯2009, and the total cost increased by 2.8% at the same time. In 2006 it was the population of large medium incomes, most of whom had visits, but 2009 it was the population of people in areas with a low average income, most of which were visited by family doctors. In Götaborg and the area, doctor visits increased by nearly 15% in health care, and the cost has been under those increases, as was the case in Stockholm. During the changes in Sweden, health care increased by 223 and is now 1,205 on a national scale. In the fall of 2014, the Swedish reexamination published a report where certain aspects of the system were criticized, a report that has been controversial and directed against it, for example, by VG Southern (Gugue City and the area). They published a 24 - page report to answer the false report. Clearly, changes in health care are needed in this country in order to meet the challenges we face. As a result, planning changes and financing play a major role. Hospitals do a considerable amount of work today, but they need to be built up by their health care providers. Its economic benefits are unambiguous. To build up our health care facilities, we are to use models from other Norwegian countries, and this system change is a step in that direction. So many were those words, a respectable president. I think we should be reasonable to discuss these matters from the facts, and I'm amazed. Congress officials to stop painting a picture but are in progress when it comes to personal service, whether on purpose or because of a misunderstanding. I call attention to the fact that we have a private health center in the capital area, the Sala region, and the Slum. When people speak of people who do not have access to them, it is the very nature of the matter according to fact. They have come out well, both in terms of government costs and quality polls. I call attention to the fact that the last left control, according to the current definition, is likely to have the largest personalisation in the health care system according to its own definition. Senators. When did she do that? When I'm at the highest. Minister of Guðbjartur Hannesson made the success that I think is without doubt the best that was done in the past. Health authorities, negotiate with private dentists. There's a private operation in the health care department. It would be perfectly foolish not to use the benefits of private health care, but this does not mean that one should look to strengthen and strengthen the hospital, for example. It is vital for the hospital that we strengthen our health care facilities, as well as the services necessary for those who leave the hospital but who are not there after they are actually released. It is a huge task, one of these large structures, to have a wide variety of services, rehabilitations, and so forth so that people can stay at home as long as possible, and then we need to build them up for obvious reasons. These are assignments we must take. I don't know that any political party in Iceland has any access to health care. I call attention to the fact that during the past few decades, the expense department has never been lower than when the Independence Party had health issues. I don't think we should just look at what's involved in the surveillance agencies and how we can simplify it, reduce that cost, and do the same maintenance requirements for them and others, but think only when we take our new expenses. I call attention to the fact that we are going to put on a fund that is designed to give us special protection projects. He has several characteristics of a tourist fund and is likely to become a major account at the end of the day. We've put vast sums of money into national parks, including the U.S. The National Park on the Field of Congress, and we must ask ourselves, " Is it not reasonable for those who enjoy the ministry there to pay for it? ' This cannot be natural when we have to set priorities for putting all the money directly out of public funds. Then there's all the pensions. paritaprevir St Brynhildur's daughter, Pétursdóttir, came in earlier and now. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir had a good time in his background speech. As long as we don't do anything, that account will grow. We have a team of 3,600 million a year, equal to the energy supply of public pension funds. While we don't match the system, take out our state responsibility and have uniform rights, this feature will continue to grow. We don't have to change the fact that everyone has a guarantee of disability within the Pension Fund, and it would be normal to have it just inside the system so that the system would recover. However, it is not preconceivable that we continue to raise this point. Fortunately, the lack of employment has decreased very much. It is not a sign when you examine employment insurance and employment agencies. You do not see signs of a decrease in administrative cost. That can't be normal. The goal, of course, is to cut down the insurance. Hv. paritaprevir Óli Björn Kárason came in earlier in answer to the fact that this is a very bad tax, especially in small and medium-sized companies. It's so expensive to hire an employee. If you want to raise your salary to the employee, you need to raise the tax you pay to the government. One part of it must be that we're looking at this system. We must insist that this is done as effectively as possible. You can't see it when you look at these figures that the decrease in administrative costs is due to a decrease in unemployment rate. I call attention to the fact that when you cross the budget, there's an amazing amount of expenses. We've put 165 million from 2007 in Social Services Schools. Why are we doing so? Who in the world did that come to mind? Does anyone argue that in particular the powerful ASI organization needs to be strengthened to go to school? God knows what he teaches. Probably something good. We have the Agency at the Ísland loan fund, where the Extra costs are about 3 of you. Millions a year. I think so, but he could be taller. For every 1K. which he loans out is 6 k. paid up. What does that mean in English? There's no need for this fund. When people walk along and ask what goals they want to achieve, the answer is that they are lent to less cold areas in the country. Let's just focus on that. We've put billions on top of billions. The total volume from 2007 is comparable or higher than the cost of a new hospital. Today, we are putting 1,300 million people in an apartment loan fund. Surely we have different ideas about what we wanted to do with these 1,300 million, but does anyone claim that putting them in a house - to - house bank is a good priority? I think the last year's budget has brought 5,700 million into it. We're on the verge of about 10 to 20 million, 100, 500 million. No, we can't, not on our needed task, because we're going to put the money in an apartment loan - again. Now that he has been taken out, it is obvious that these goals can be achieved with even no financial contributions, at least much less. We can reach the goal of lending to new structures in the cold areas, where there is an obligatory value on the house - to - house loans. If they do not trust this, a building agency may have some kind of Kingdom responsibility on the few houses built in this area. I don't think this money's well worth up to me. In fact, since 2007, there have been 827% increases in the labor force, up to 726 million, and there is bound to be a rising rise. We found out in our financial work that we are not doing what other nations do, and we appear in the committee's list of parts that are thought - provoking to define this as a development aid. This is it. We are adding 465 million to keep to 2.1%, but making contributions to the refugees increases. Then I'm not talking about the EFTA Development Fund, which is part of it, but we have special assistance to the European Union. The European Union's dedicatedists believe this is the EU access field, but it's not. They know right now. Somebody said we had been given all the EU contracts for nothing and we had a contract to pay for a few years to Greece, Spain, Italy, and Portugal. Then they asked us to continue paying.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u126	Who had those fine words?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u127	Jón Baldvin Hannibalsson said that we would get everything for nothing. Among other things, we have been strengthening development aid to Great Britain through the EFTA Development Fund. I have emphasized that if we're paying for this fund, it should be used for real development support, including in the refugee problem that's not leaving us at all. It needs to be taken out. It's amazing, and it must be thought that the ministry that's supposed to hold these matters won't do better if it does. It's amazing if we're at the point where we don't give up all the development aids we give up. We'll probably pay 2.5% or something if you run at this, based on the little information you have on it. These traditional development programs are detracting from the resources they place in refugee assistance. Based on the information I've put in front of a crown Danir and the Swedes, they're dragging about 30% against every cent they put into this. We can have all the opinions about how much we should put into practice in developing help and refugees, but we must agree that this is the right thing to do, so we speak about it from the correct facts, namely. How much we put in development aid. When we talk about the public finances and get up there, we're just supposed to talk about the frames, and I have to admit that I feel that I feel that the issue of foreign affairs is too big. When the public finances are passed and we don't know exactly how they develop, as you understand them, we should talk more about the big picture and what they are about. You must have an opinion about what goes inside him. I don't understand why we're opening up an office in Strasbourg. I just don't understand why we put 40 million in it. The office was closed, and nothing happened. There's enough embassy in Europe. No one can claim that we, this 320 yous. a people, don't have enough embassys in Europe. If you want to do Strasbourg's work better, you can do it by saving others. We're talking about the importance of foreign policy. It is the policy of this government to focus more on communication with North America, probable one major power in the world, the United States, and we have two diplomats. They're in Washington. If people else want to put more into this, it would be normal for me to set priorities in that way. I feel that the Ministry of State in general is too European, which is special in view of the fact that Europe is always less or less important. Other areas are growing very much, as well as our business countries, and I don't talk about business countries and business blocks in the world. Similarly, during the practical procedures, we were expected to make use of the benefits of having a customer. In the past, they were funded for their secular career, but they were also guided by the commercial situation that is normal because they serve it. Sadly, we set that cost on the taxpayers, and we are expected to take the step back. It was far more sensible and there would be a way to make the money more money. We're all on the same team, whether it's the professional or the nation, that 320 you. a nation, and we're supposed to make the most of it. I'd like to commend the highest. A minister of education for calling attention to what we're doing when it comes to basic schools about reading, especially the reading of young boys, but I'm thinking that when we put hundreds of millions of people in the Institute of Education for the State to be able to hire individuals who are to teach high school teachers to teach children how to read. When we consider comparative numbers with other nations, it is obvious that we do not place a small amount in elementary school, especially in proportion. We have quite a profit there. In other places, however, we could put more in, especially at university. That's obvious. Let us talk about things the way they are. For example, the transfer of disabled persons to the rural community was not well prepared. It's just a matter of how it can be done, that after previous transfers it should not have been prepared better. It's done. The cost between rural society and the State is on a regular scale. If they want to go this way, which is the meaning, I think it should be taken into this account. There's a state going into a topic field funded by the communities and responsible for them. I see a great increase in population collected. I think we should just look to see if we can't make better use of the increase in tourism. I'd say it helped with the operation of these museums to get 1.3 million tourists. In Western islands, the ostentatious eruption is going very well, and we must look to it. It is our goal to have magnificent and fine capitals, but we must also try to make sure that those who enjoy them have a natural share. It is a goal in itself when we receive these visitors to the country, which is great and gives us great opportunities, that the taxpayers in the country do not have to pay more for a particular service that exists now and they take advantage of it. It must be a goal for them to participate and that the account does not fall on taxpayers. I am thinking, too, when I see the tremendous increase in the Harpa and the Symphony. The opera, in fact, is under it, though it is a self - interest institution that is more and less equipped to complete all its gift - giving resources. Why is it not possible to make better use of the additive effects that must be enjoyed in these magnificent institutions? It is abnormal that all of these activities in Harpa have triple control. We must insist that we take advantage of the opportunities in such harmony. Then I come back, too, because Reykjavíkurburg has grown and prospered as a stop, and this magnificent house certainly attracts tourists, but it is quite unwise when men cannot work with one another better than it really is, and we have triple control. Also, I think about it: Let's not define our country's soil readings better. We put 303 million each year to that institution. Clearly, private workers have taken a heavy measure of the role that the Agency once played. Without a doubt, we could do better with the work we would like to do with that institution if we were to define it better and possibly ask it out. I am primarily the things that are not related to basic services. No one can claim that what I have mentioned here is an attack on basic services, health systems, law enforcement, social services. That is a long road. This is something a family needs to do, a financial priority is needed, can't send the account to the neighbors, she has to hold on to her finances, and what she feels is the most important thing to do. A company has to do this. Those who feel the most are the little dictators with the big companies. We are under obligation to think this way, and I feel it is not part of our discussion. I'll admit that both the discussion here and the discussion in general as well as then. When these matters come, I have found some disappointment in a legal committee. The majority have been successful when it comes to certain tenders. It is quite amazing, though, that the State Department is not to be asked out. We took a new route that has not gone before because we had repeatedly called Kingdom Halls, the Ministry, etc. We sent a questionnaire to all the Ministry and wanted to know how many agencies were asked out. It should be done according to the law, or it should be used as an obvious option through frame agreements. There have been endless reports of their wisdom. Sometimes it is difficult to save, but what is difficult to offer a telephone service or an electrical service? Have you ever come to some institution that just says, "It's impossible after we change the power from someone who sells us? ' That electricity we're getting is impossible? Of course, that is not the case. However, there are institutions that have saved a lot of money by offering it out. For example, I mention the living room. Happily, there are some organizations that have been successful in the use of invitations. They're just too few. I brought some data with me, but I forgot to bring these numbers with me. However, they are available, and I have studied them in public. I am also disappointed that out of the 110 eco-efficiency initiatives introduced by the eco-group 24 have been carried out and seven are being treated as members of Congress. I think we should do better. We deal with a lot of problems and can argue about whether taxes should be high or low and whether anyone wants to walk in the European Union or something, but why are we not able to agree to try to make the most of the money? I have to say with all due respect for what's happened. I've never seen her face seeing government spending without wanting to increase it. [[For example, consider: What, then, during the last term?]] I hope this makes things change as far as they are concerned, but her will to increase her government spending is absolutely tremendously strong. In this list, you might think that something would tell you: Yes, I think it might be okay to turn that down, or leave it standing, and stop raising. But that reaction surprised me greatly. Maybe I'm wrong. I hope so. Of course it's the big movie. You keep a plan and you pay off your debts. The government is setting health priorities, pension insurance, and law enforcement, but we owe much in investments. We are not turning away from that path, and we are not able to invest as we need to in the woods, including Roads, ports, or airports, or nursing homes. We have to save somewhere if we really want to do this, and then we need to take that discussion. I'm finally going to mention only 6. sources in here. I hear a little bit of the discussion when it comes to 6. Sources that something has to be sold. I'm sorry. The body of elders does not have that authority. The government is authorized to sell because it needs to be authorized. Many sources have been inside for years, perhaps decades. I'm a council member of the Rusty, and I admit I'm proud of it, and I think it would be better if we, for example, used the Toll House to something other than our use today. Many tourists take buses to Holtical Parks, mall, and Minis. I'm not talking it down, but I think it would be much better for all of us, and the city would be better if, for example, at the Toll House was a small store chain or as big as possible. Of course, it takes time to review. The same is true of the National Archives, a very remarkable organization. You don't pack it in a few minutes and send it over. That area, however, has become a central area for tourists. If you go to foreign sources, TripAdvisor or what you call, check the Red Sea path as the city of Reykjavík. This means that the value of this region has increased greatly and should be used. It's also allowed to sell the police station. If we plan that area well, we'll make the city even better than it is today. I think everybody's gonna benefit from that. Of course, we need to make sure that the National Library has a dignified place and that people have access to the ministry there. There are many possibilities, but these are mainly opportunities. I hope they'll be accepted and we'll see some movement on those things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u128	Mr. President. Hv. At least as health ministers, a senator was excellent at his time. I enjoyed working with him. He speaks of that matter with great experience and knowledge. I agree with him that we should allow ourselves to reflect on various possibilities. I would also agree with him that providing health care will strengthen the health care system, even in the best possible way. A senator talks about it. But the other thing, I'd like to say I'm thinking about not recording a reference system, and you can save a lot of money. But then I'd like to say, "What does it want?" A senator up here on deck when he brings in a member of the board of directors who talks about how the system is blowing out? Whom should he blame? Is that why? A senator does not start supporting a budget bill that assumes the number of embassies has increased? I'm asking why. Senator: What about the embassy in Strasbourg? I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: What about the Tourist Control? Then he comes here and tears himself down his ass over the fact that there are too many government agencies and the last government, like she's responsible for, as long as he's going to increase the number of embassies and institutions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think it would have been very good at the time that they had started the reference system. The problem, however, is that we have so few medical doctors that we could not start it now, unfortunately. It's just not possible. There's a lot to do and, among other things, what I mentioned earlier so that we could get into that position. The system simply cannot handle it with so few elderly doctors and doctors. Then there's a w-w. A senator scolding me for not standing well enough on the brake, and I'm just right around the corner. Senator. I can do two things. I can pretend that nothing is, or that I can call attention to these views. That's what I decided to do. I'm gonna keep fighting for them. I can't get everything I have. I'll be supporting the budget bill. As I mentioned, the big movie is good. But I want more results. We both know that, me and what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, you don't get everything you want, not even when you're a minister. How about when you're a vice president? The budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u130	Mr. President. I'll say it again, I want to talk to what. Because he knows them, a member of the body of elders is tactful about health matters. I disagree with him about many things there, but he has many topics to contribute. But, sir, he's faithful. Hv. A senator comes down here and dries himself, I think, about what the situation is, and he talks about the big lines being good. When has this happened in the Republic of the past that the Independence Party, the Council itself, is in government, and that is what the governor of the Land Bank calls basking goods, the income of state funds is approaching 700 billion, and it produces less than 11 billion? It's a lousy performance of a class that likes to preach a seminar. If not like this, when is what we're going to get back to the rest? Why is that not possible? Yes, they're building a tourist Control Center, they're building a new embassy in Strasbourg, but er. A senator refused to answer that question. I ask you, " How is it that he's opening the embassy that I closed for savings? ' [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] How is it that he is creating a third government agency with traveling sides of two existing organizations?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u131	A respectable president. I believe the rest will be more than 11 billion. Then it's just like that. A senator knows that the Independence Party is not alone. He's working on it. It requires compromise.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u132	Are you blaming the move team for this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u133	I would never blame the forward group or the United States for not getting any results. There is a general need for political pressure to join what needs to be done. There is also a need for more counsel than we do. Of course, the largest part of the budget is the increase that has occurred today. When I talk about the big movie, we're returning the rest. We're paying off debts. It's very important. But most of it's naturally due to a raise in pay. It is enormous, and the task is now to make sure that we do not have the cleaning or inflation of the land. We're in a hurry. [[What about Strasbourg?]] We can talk about it all the way back and forth who was to blame. [[Up front.]] But they've already been signed. Now we have to play it. [[The president calls.]] I don't like an office in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u134	President. I didn't think I'd grow older because I agreed. paritaprevir Lord Guðlaugur Þór, son of Þórðarson. Nothing has happened very often in life before. Based on this large figure he spoke about, and the list of all these institutions in which he thought there was too much money in it, it didn't sound like there was anything left in the rest of the big picture when the list was gone by the dog. Senator. In the growing of the elderly, it is a highly predictable problem, highly predictable; in decades of advance. We are heading for the country's age distribution to find lasting relief from the way we are going to cope with the pension system. It is very difficult to let the present system work by means of the nation's age ratio, which will result in the near future and the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u135	Thank you. A senator before me, and I hope that he will recover from agreeing with me. I hope he gets used to it and that we'll agree more often than we disagree. But if people disagree, we should just discuss things objectively. On the other hand, we are because of what we are. A senator named the pension system, one of six nations in OECD who owns something in pension funds. I was shocked when I examined it. This is generally not in the proportion of countries. The reason this is not in the proportion of countries is that countries like France simply have a refusal to do so in public numbers. They don't really have anything in pension funds. Even a powerful giant nation in the European Union, Germany, owns 5.6% of GDP in pension funds. They and the Japanese are the oldest people in the world. The French have 1 to 2%, are very old, and the Mediterranean countries have virtually nothing. There we, the British, Australians, Americans and other such people have something, and we have more than 120%, and we have the youngest nations. In this regard, our situation is strong. The task, however, is now that you have some people who have nothing in pensions, who have little rights. [[The president calls.]] Somehow, if we can, which we can, of course, help, we need to help.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u136	President. Much of the pension system is so large; there is an enormous amount of money in what really sucks through what they have, even though it is not an enormously complex one. In effect, the basic question is: Did we really trust so many people with so much money for so long? Simply the answer is no. It offers a release system as a solution. Or some space between them. Less security systems as we have, more share, a flow system. That's another one about the private class. It doesn't sound like much to me as a private business, anyway, when it's payable on public donations, i.e. that the individual himself does not come to the clinic and pay. If he doesn't pay for anything when he shows up, it's not a private business, no matter how much it's a private car running the health care unit. A senator understands what I mean. It's not a full private business. There is a difference between each city and whether it's a private business or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u137	A respectable president. These are large tests. I believe that the solution to our pensions is toward our having the freedom to choose. It's important that the pension fund invest in foreign lands, so we don't have all the eggs in the same basket. Regarding private business: This is the private business of health care. We have decades of experience and also the Scandinavian countries. I think it's important that the system is so financed to most of the public, of the common funds; that we have this rule that we have of having access to. However, most of the nursing homes or nearly all are private exercise. It's just good. I think it would be unwise for the state to take over. The state has no good experience as a nursing home while we have the Land Hospital, and I don't think it would be wise, or I don't see how it should be changed. But this is about everybody having the same access. That's why the State's coming to this. If we ever do that way, and it can happen, that we don't have enough service, then private people can go out as men just pay them and advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Sometimes we agree, me and what. Senator; I think we both try to talk about responsibility, discipline, and professional practice, and so forth. I was surprised when I received the adjustment proposals, how many suggestions there are in those I feel are at home somewhere else. In particular, I would like to ask on the team I make up a panel of members of my committee, these are the ones who receive funding to meet a busy management house, to pay up a collection of business halls, or to make sure that next year there will not be a management house. There are four institutions and teams there. We know that, me and what. A senator, full of institutions struggling with business halls. I believe that it is important that these issues be taken in a collective way in the council; that agencies, who get up to 15 million of the funds to pay up a management house, will at least show that they have come out of the trouble they were in. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator won't agree with me?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u139	A respectable president. I think this is what it is: We were going to tie it up to make sense that our rural society would be there. I'm sure that's enough, and we should spend more time looking into this sector in general and inspecting them -- I'm trying to answer very quickly in one minute, very large questions. But I don't think that system worked well when you started looking at it. Obviously, I felt that the third sector was left out. I'm on it. A senator in her suggestion. That's what she knows very well. I can't remember the name of that, a women's shelter in Akureyri. A senator knows that sometimes it is the tendency of the stewards in general to strengthen the public institutions. True, we have self-employed institutions, part of the third sector, with very large joints. A third field, for example, is the BLA, the Cancer Society, and other things. But I don't feel that we're in the right place in this regard. There are two options, either to say that some service required to be there and that is good for it, with consequences that could be cost to the State, or that we are in a transitional state that we hope will be able to change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u140	A respectable president. We are, in one word, saying that the Ministry is out of control, and as a result, we are taking this back into the committee, i.e. That's it. That's it. Before that, he talked. Senator on his role and surveillance of the European Commission. I've felt that the council's surveillance of the Commission is a real disgrace. I feel that the greater part is an extension of the government, just as I thought the Farmers were extensions of the Aggressor Department for a while, with the lack of any major members of the body being prepared to be real to the development of the project. Wouldn't we have to do more on a budget to be this patrol? Call the Ministers to us, not just the Ministry, but the Ministers responsible for their decisions. And perhaps more time may be set aside to ensure that the Ministry looks at Snortotos, or whatever it is, pays up its busy range and monitors, and so on. [[The president calls.]] How will the majority of the legal committee pay attention to the fact that this money will then be really well spent?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u141	A respectable president. I don't want to take it so that we've taken it all into the committee. We haven't. Hv. A senator has listened to locals speaking. Hv. A senator himself has offered suggestions on this matter. I'm referring to a suggestion about a particular task that has to do with a specific area. What this turns to is often an area that hurts, so to speak. A telecommunication project that has taken more than a portion of the budget committee involved, a fiber optic project, has been developed after we had listened to our rural communities, the ports, etc. So it's not all cut and cut. I don't agree with it, and I don't think it's fair to say that we haven't taken the step regarding surveillance. Now that's how it works. The budget starts right after the year. That's what's done. It has not been done to this degree before. Maybe something. But we're on our feet, and I think it'll never be perfect. There's nothing perfect in the other countries either. But I believe we're on the right track in this regard. I agree with what. A senator says we need to take better care of the surveillance. But it gets easier, the better we know about the system, which is pretty complicated and it actually seems like it's designed that people shouldn't understand it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u142	Mr. President. If you don't mind my interpretation. A senator believes that it was a mistake on Iceland not to promote the first meeting of health care, health care, I agree with that. So we agree on something. I go further and say that it was our greatest health disaster to never completely carry out the health laws of the '70s that went right out of building powerful clinics all over the country. That task was never finished, especially here in the capital area. This has cost us dearly. Then you can reason. A senator speaks out of all the self - importance he wants and believes in his private business in health care. It does not compromise my and the conclusion, supported by a number of studies and comparisons between countries and countries, that a powerful public health system, financed by public tax revenues, available to all without a prior fee, is the most economic cost, guarantees the best equality of citizens, and provides the best results. Of course, the most powerful proof of the opposite is the health system in the United States, which is the most expensive health system in the world and with the sad result that tens of millions of Americans have no basic services. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u143	A respectable president. Now we have what? A senator often succeeds here, perhaps making big remarks with each other. I'm gonna pray. A senator to study the article I read earlier. What he listed; everyone has access at a small expense, financed by the government, is present in the private health care unit in Iceland. That's the Salare County model. The immediate health care has proved to be particularly effective. And the underdog and the independent family doctors. The doctor I referred to, director of medicine, was in a brief article about the experience in Sweden and Norway. They're not breaking a prince's finger. That's what I'm trying to do. All I'm saying is, read this article and examine the research that lies behind it and the experience of the Norwegian nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u144	Mr. President. As older than 20th, we know how the private business breaks into the welfare service. It all starts very innocently. In the next round, the payment demand for the owners comes, which has put funds into the business, etc. I guess they have something to bite from the needle with it in Sweden. And then I was going to say, "What's wrong?" Of course, a senator's reference to dentists is without judgment, that we have represented the largest personal development in the history of Iceland by dealing with the fear - inspiring conditions that were being built up in children's dental health and young people in Iceland who ruled the jungle law. Yes, we put it in a contract and secure men's service, making sure that children and young people have the right to a minimum service without charge, that the government's agreement was based on dental records. But we did not set up the State dental service to render service if that is the case. A senator is asking for. We took the most practicable solution available to address a crisis that everyone acknowledged was building up in a time bomb in Iceland's time bomb where dental health of children and young people was driving rapidly. [[The president calls.]] The former government deserves credit for completing it as long as possible. A senator could never handle his dental business as a health minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u145	A respectable president. I think it's amazing. [[Up front.]] I don't know what part of it is. A senator has listened to my speech. He may have listened to 50%, took every other sentence. I was commending the last government to negotiate with dentists. But I was saying that as men use those terms and words, it's a privatization. Of course, that is not a personalization. The neighborhood has been here, and it was Jón Kristjánsson who offered that service. They've taken this out from time to time. There's been a lot of business outside the state, and there's a really good service test coming out. What's wrong with that? That's exactly what men did, and I was reading a doctor's article referring to Sweden and Norway. [[Up front.]] No, actually, a respectable president, it did not work so well. These are the facts. This is why humans have come to take advantage of these advantages. We have decades of experience. [[The president calls.]] Nurses are private, some other things. I got it. I got it. To study these matters, a senator respectfully asks him to listen to my entire talk next if he is going to return.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u146	A respectable president. At first glance, it seems to me that 2016's budget is kind of a loaf of bread, but as has been shown, there is nothing particularly equal in the decline of the well - being. I take into account the comment I made on my part when it comes to work and how it is criticized that some of the budgets we were doing should be placed at home in the budget that we now address. There is also a lack of consultation and the museum members something that can be criticized considerably. Other than that, I find the opinion of the majority of the section very interesting, especially what I would like to bring to the attention of the chapter on burdensome legislation. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Other examples and much more money - related issues are more disabled than the responsibility for that class moved from one country to another at the beginning of 2011. And it goes on to say that almost all of our communities run the party with losses. This is set up in the budget bill as if there's a conflict between rural society and the state, but I don't think it's necessary. There is, in fact, more consultation, more cooperation, and the need to enable rural society to handle these issues well, to ensure that they have financial ability to do so. Although the NPA projects are specifically referred to here, there are also some nursing homes in the local community's survey, with significant losses, even 100 million. K. losing, and somehow it has to be financed. There should be no conflict between city and state or community and state, but more cooperation is needed, not threats of taking the tribe of civil society, but a better solution. There is also an old ghost floating across the lakes when it is critical that the financial cost of the FDA doubled over the period, i.e. of 2007 Pharisees,2016. Well, thank God I'm just saying. It is a joy to see that the financial cost of the F.O. has doubled over time. One of the main reasons for the collapse of the bank, which is to be broken down in the Allied Research Committee on Causes and Causes Prevention, was a weak financial check, which was the main reason for collapse, so I rejoice that there has been quite much more money for the FEC. I am glad that the cost of operating has doubled during this period. That is something we should not use as a form of shame. The surveillance industry, as it is often called, is present for good reason. The surveillance is to protect people, to control much of the world's rulers. I agree with the greater perspective of the need for monitoring unless there is some benefit, but that doesn't mean there's always a danger or bad place in the community as a whole. What I would like to criticize on the opinion of the greater part of the first section is to prepare for the implementation of Generality, that it should have in mind the plans of the Guðjón of Samúelsson. I don't think that's appropriate. I think it would be wise to ignore the many artists and architects who have already educated themselves, and it would be appropriate for them to go ahead. Samúelsson's son was a good and great architect. He actually created this particular style for Reykjavík, and we do not take it off, but his time has passed, which is only very normal, all humans must die at one time, and so on. It's time to make something new, it's okay, the sky and the ocean will not be destroyed. As a historian, I find myself thinking of drawing up and saluting an age - old drawing, some ancient chronic, of the 20th century of nationalism. It will probably be viewed from the historian's perspective after 20 years as a frayer, so I say no more. Also, I'd like to criticize a team number 00-610, of the Generals' agent. There's a proposal of 13 million. K. reduction of contribution to the General Agent. For a explanation, the President's permission: Since it is now an office in Thorshamri of the Church Strait of Templa, the office in the United States rented office office halls on a public market, which included over 13 million houses. K. Since the office no longer pays rent, it is suggested that its legal rights be canceled. It is not so simple that when an agent is brought to his own residence or a court ordered housing, all the business expenses that used to rent housing are dropped. Although it is true that the office no longer pays rent, there are other costs. For example, hot water is twice as expensive to them in the existing facility where the housing is poorly isolated, and as far as I know, it was as good in the claws, so the entire roof is going to be isolated. There's a lot of things to do better. It's not a finished house. It is a house owned by the State or by the Generals, and there is also another general cost of having your own housing. I am a member of the General Security Organization, 2012, and 2011, the cost of public security is 225,800 k. 244,165 k. but now for 2014, take proben, the only whole year they've been in this house, you have to pay a $1440 standard agent. K. to the General for security. In addition, an agent has to pay for a 134 bill. K. and real estate, a new feature that he hasn't had to pay before because he was in a rented house, up to 2.4 billion. K. 2,444 you. K. It's a very strange number. All of this is a new fee of 4 billion. K. So it's not so much savings to stop paying rent, the annual fees of an agent fall, but not completely disappear, so I feel very bad that it's taking 13 million. K. from the U.S. government agent on the grounds that the office no longer pays rent. It is not taken into account that it is not as if all the cost of operating is wiped out. There are also many other costs of housing. This house is old, one of the first large stone houses built in Reykjavík, built in 1914, if I recall correctly, and was first an apartment house, so it is a very large and impressive house that could be made up very much. Let us not forget that the U.S. Marshal of the United States is also the employee of the Generals. He's working for us. In this context, there is another factor that increases the cost of operating costs, which are 1 billion for the staff of an agent. K. This year, however, the annual cost of contract agent Algilis is no longer 13 million. K. But he's down to about 8 million. K. In this respect and it is necessary to take into account the cost of rent. In addition, the need to make access to the disabled at General's agency's residence. I think it's a basic prince today that disabled people can get and talk to an agent like everyone else. That'll cost about 6 billion. K. 8 million. K. That's what it takes. Therefore, there is much to be done for the U.S. Marshal. However, in the smaller part, we contribute to the change of 15 million. K., but they are not to meet the cost of operating. I think the more part needs to think about this 13 billion. K. embezzlement and try to have a better conversation with the U.S. agent on what he needs and how much he needs to do. We want 15 billion. K. use the resources used to recruit an employee to be in voluntary studies. The U.S. Marshal of the Council has a high level of surveillance on behalf of the Generals. It is very important for him to have the means to take part in the research he does. That's something I think is very important, and that's why we're making it 15 million. K. if the ears are marked to hire a new employee, both to handle daily business so that the agent himself does not have to be in the daily affairs of the house and to hire a person who can be in the initiative studies, preferably during the day. I would also like to ask about a team called a variety of contributions from the State Department and hope to do so. The members of the great body of the hall can answer me. There's a proposal of about 4 million. K. temporarily making contributions to the Bible Society for the sake of the 200th birthday of the Society. What's the use of the money for? Why does it come in like this? What company are we talking about? Is this the Icelandic Bible Society, and why is it not specified as the Icelandic Bible Society in the report? I'd like to get a better look at this team because I think it's an inexplicable priority, that's 4 million. K. in anything else, e.g. what I'd like to talk about after this, which is a new proposal I'd like to recommend to the Information Committee. Thus, the Commission of Information Enforcers has begun a initiative on why the decision - making committee is running so long and does not submit its due time, as the law says, within a certain period of time, but it has come to a huge fall because the pay period of pay period has increased very much by the Committee. That's why we're making a tortured suggestion of five million. K. a donation to finance half the status of the decision-making committee. We find good reason to add half the status values and the next time we spoke to the chairman of the Committee, this would be very important. The reason for this long period of payment and great tail is that the range of new laws on information has grown greatly and as a result, the number of charges to the Committee has increased as well as the individual issues referred to to by the Committee becomes more complex, so it is fully necessary to add to the 5 billion. K. to the decision Committee and earmark them for a second half job or half rank value in order to work at these tails. This is an important committee. It ensures that those who want to receive information about the work of the State and its institutions receive them, and it is vital that they do their work well. Other than that. I'd like to celebrate more of the proposal for a total of 45 million. K. ... but we would like to suggest that this increase will be 80 billion. K. Given the way today's prisons have been done, it's just a matter of time before something terrible happens. There's no one on the back, there's a lot of pressure on the staff, there's a little project or a booth that's just not quite tame and it'd be very interesting to know what it was after the storm yesterday, if they'd just thought. A lot more money is needed for this party, so we suggest that it be put on at least 80 million. K. Added to this 45 billion. K. increase, of which 50 million will be. K. especially the ears marked with Little Laundromat. In recent years, prison cuts have gone very hard on them, and the situation is that all equipment and services to prisoners are extremely bad. Last year, in 2014, it was 174 days of 365 prisoners who did not receive a full legal service for the sake of human resources. This is something that is not open to humans in modern society. If we are to view prison as an institution for correction, we need to do much better. Often, these institutions are very weak, and they need much help. In the long run, it is cheaper for us to educate people and be humanitarian, allowing them to be harnessed than to lock them up for six years or 20 years or whatever they are now, hoping that they will come out better. We need to make some effort to reach that goal, and I hope that more of the legal committee will agree with me on this. 15 million. K. 30 million. K. The Agency is beautiful, but much more is needed. I'm not going to have my case further in the meantime.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u147	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this speech. We agree that we are concerned about the local prison matters and are both very aware that the situation is limited because of the safety of a prison guard. A large portion of the budget adopted at the council today suggested that 20 million go to jail. At the same time, we have proposed a 2016 legal arrangement that put 45 million in place, a total of 65 million. K. inject in prison business. I believe that jail cases need to be examined in Iceland, as the senator walked in, because I've always been a spokesman for the fact that in the jails, I have not been punished. I think I want the highest. The Minister of the Interior Is there, and even it is time that anything involved in the matter of prison affairs will be taken into account in a thorough review. The Senator was here asking about a minustment of Aldulis's emissary. A year and a half ago, the U.S. Marshal of the Council moved into a house owned by the Generals. It has always been the case with government agencies that if they leave a rented house, as the office of the Allegler's agent was certainly in Eeltifam, houses have fallen at the same time if the institution goes to a free home, such as this one. This does not change our supply of funds received from the office regarding repairs on the premises, although it is very strange that the office should apply for such things. The general body should apply for such funds, for the General Assembly is in charge of the premises. So this is, in effect, more than a question to answer the questions the senator had.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u148	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. Senator. I'm glad she wants to do better with prisoners. I hope she sees that it has to be done even better. V.E.G. The Minister of the State has said that it takes some 800 million, up to a billion people, to meet the trade and to do so much better. That is why we are adding 80 million more to meet the highest standards. Minister of the Interior has already said so. It's great that we're 65 million to this party. However, at least 35 million still need to do as well as possible under the circumstances. You're right. A senator said, when an institution went into his own house, the rent should fall down. However, it must be understood that other cost of employment comes from having facilities on the behalf of the council. This accounts for the highest overall security watch that rises from 250 levels. into 1.4 million. In addition, there are property bills that must be paid by the U.S. Marshal, 2.4 million. All of this is up to 8 million. Somehow you need to meet this cost of business. It is true that the senator says that he has been able to meet certain issues mentioned by the U.S. Councilman. However, this is not so that he can afford to lose all these 13 million. The directors are responsible for the operation and for Generalis himself the head of this house, so he has to pay all the bills, including 2.4 million in real estate. It would be beneficial to come to meet him in that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u149	A respectable president. They are largely the grains of sand that the government's institutions collect from the budget. It appears an excellent table in the Commission study of the majority of the section where increases to WHO agent are shown during the reference years covered by surveillance agencies. I think it's from 2007 or 2008. The budget for the General Assembly agent has increased by 100% during this period, which is, for example, far above any health - care institution. I think it may be with this institution, such as the National Reunion, which is also the Council's Office, that only the management committee needs to be examined, because, in my opinion, these two institutions are about to enter the scene of each other's office and, like, a state reexamination that is only to look at the financial issues of the state, but is now making administrative arrangements and taking care of matters that belong to the General Assembly. It is my opinion that only this institution needs to be examined and that it may become these budgets so that it will be done on an ever - increasing scale. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u150	Mr. President. It's amazing. As far as I know, the pay fees are 83% of the staff agent's work, so the other 17% is expected to be the usual cost of work. In addition, the agent of the agency, of course, must carry a law - ordered responsibility, a total of of of 7.5,8 million. I think a little bit of a rough word to say. A senator needs to revise the founder's custodian. It is a joy that we have begun to spend more money and give more money to the emissary of the Generals. It is a political decision to do so, for it is one of the biggest agencies in the U.S.A. We're here to strengthen her. She works for us. It is very important that the Allied agent be financially firm and financially secure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u151	Mr. President. Thank you. Just a few minutes ago, a senator for a direct and grammatical speech. My main focus here on this talk is to express support to her proposal that there will be increased funding for the initiative checks of the Council's emissary. I have been its spokesman for a long time, most often to the deaf, remembering it when I spoke to one of the few senators here a year ago when we discussed the report of an agent in which this was taken up with great force. I believe that there must be a special budget for the initiatives of the office. However, what needs to be done. A senator is not going into any grave, saying that there is no one willing to do this on the sole or least of those seated today. The attitude of a man. A senator, chairman of the budget board, was clearly made clear earlier. She has reported many times that she feels that these departments, which are the most conservative devices today, are far beyond her field of work. It is not that we ask, but we have seen what they are capable of. We saw that the agent's operation almost led to the decision that a minister had to resign. Of course, there is no particular desire on the part of the government to award the institution. That's why I believe that when you're pinching up some relatively small growing institutions, it's not a coincidence. Hv. A senator who spoke earlier said there were a lot of sand grain, but this is important for business of so small. Like what? A member of the council reported on this very matters by a judge who was a member of the Generals. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would agree with me that in this case a certain section of the government was revealed to me in terms of office.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u152	A respectable president. I simply feel that it is a sign of independence from the council that the Allied agent can take the initiative. As reported in a report by the World Commission, the management industry is a source of stress, something that began in the 1990's with the Narcotics. The surveillance industry is part of society. It's natural that we're bringing in an agent from the Generals below. That's what it's all about, and it's politics. It is also about the need for the U.S. agent to be outside political differences when it comes to financing the Agency. Its progress requires stability, and it must be a parapolitic reconciliation to his existence. If not, we need to discuss it better, but it seems that not everyone is prepared to accept the findings of the General Agent. While not a very expensive organisation, the U.S. Marshal of the Council is doing an extremely important role for society and for the General. The suggestion of the law is very modest. They are asking for 4.5 million for half a job, a position, to relieve the agents of the Generals, where they have to perform many day - to - day business jobs, 3 million for the change of glass and chel and 8 million for the access of disabled. This is a 19th - century house. This is a house that needs to be repaired. Despite the collapse of rent, that does not mean that other expenses will fail. There are other expenses. It's only the nature of the business that things are moving in the books, although renting a neighborhood. And being threatened by the need to reevaluate these institutions is a very serious political statement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u153	Mr. President. It is very serious when the government threatens an organization like the General agent. This has done so many times, it has been done by the chairman of the budget board many times, that is, rather, the leader of its life has made public and supreme. The minister of finance has been particularly prominent in the case of the office. [[Up front.]] The reason is very clear. What the government and especially the government don't want is the sharpest knife in the arms cabinet of the office, and that's the initiative checks. That's what the government is most afraid of. Therefore, I say, there must be a special allowance for those who have never been. A manager has always had to take money for them from other teams, but we, who have been reading reports from the office every year, see that there are other challenges that are thus being received. If we're going to keep this thing sharp, we've got to get on the way to putting special funding on the initiative. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u154	A respectable president. I agree with what you're saying. The senator that there must be a special financial body so that an agent has financial security to take care of his initiative. There must also be financial security, so an agent does not have to use other teams in his business. As mentioned in my previous case, pay expenses are 83% of the total cost of an agent. We're talking about a very productive organization. It is as if an agent is being punished for having signed a contract with the Council to move into a house owned by the Generals and otherwise used. One of the conditions behind it was to make the house practical. It would have been better for an agent to stay in the rented room, but it would have been more expensive for the Generals. I find it very normal to meet the financial needs of an agent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u155	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's talk, and he can agree with her about a lot. Some of the things she has mentioned in her talks here at the council have not given me any particular attention, such as the decision - making committees that she discussed. Hv. A senator only admitted that the values of the law had been expanded, that if I understood correctly, the charges had increased. Could it explain the role of the committee more closely? Is it solely government agencies or on this committee of information to care for anything else? I can quite agree that it is very important that we have a surveillance system and make our system more efficient than it is, just as I agree with it regarding the General agent. I have spoken of the fact that this office will be supported, even as it was. with the initiative, like a guv. A senator came in, because part of the important role that an agent has is that he is independent of the council, despite being assigned to the presiding committee, e.g. When it comes to pay systems and such. The manager is the party we rely on for the public and for members and others, so I agree with him. But I would like the senator to explain his proposal a little further, i.e. the field of activity of such information committees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u156	A respectable president. The decision - making committee of information is a committee that came following the collapse, if I recall correctly, to ensure that the institutions required to provide information to the public, the media, and, for example, to the council, did it. But when they refused to give information or when there is a doubt as to whether people have the right to receive this information, they can turn the decision to the Commission of Information Act. The administrative domain of the decision - making committee was extended, but it did not follow additional funding for implementing standard values at the level of pressure. By expanding the committee's fields, more requests were made, indicating that the current decision - making committee does not perform its legal function in due time but is therefore like a limp, and no clear answer has been received from the Supreme Court. Prime Minister, what should be done about this. As far as we know, after speaking to the head of the decision committee, it seems that these tails can be processed very easily simply by adding to a 50% value and having it 100% or by hiring someone else to a 50% standard value. Well, that's about as simple as that. It's mostly paperwork. There is a situation, so it does not take much to fix the situation, but it would result in a very great deal. The U.S. Marshal Generalis has started an initiative study on the tail, i.e. why the Commission of Information law does not produce a legal date.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u157	Mr. President. Thanks for that. I had not realized it or that an agent was starting an investigation on this case. It's interesting to know if there are more reasons behind this than just humans, which sounds to me, though, is the main reason for the formation of tails. As the senator says, the cheapest advantage is half. It's remarkable to think that there's such a process that you need to make a decision. I guess there's a little bit of a back-up in the system for information. Then I wanted the rest to say that I agree with what. A senator on the prison case. I'll agree with the head of prison. [[The president calls.]] I don't think there's enough work to be done in the bill that's meant for the full punishment, which I expect to do. The senator studied himself. [[The president calls.]] I suppose she agrees with me that the funds that are funded for these matters and the supplements are not enough. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u158	A respectable president. Yes, there is a natural reason to rejoice that Aldulis's agent has stumbled upon this problem, probably because someone has appealed it to him, and that he has the means to initiate a initiative, which may well have not been a year, will become the budget as far as it will be. There is also good reason to consider whether we need to put more in the prison case, for like the Supreme Court. The Minister of the Interior has pointed out that there will always be 80 million. K. if not more than to do well with that group. Then you have to have the earmarks of Little Lava, which is now the most notorious prison in Iceland, as it were. There is much more to be done there. People who work there, living much better for those staying there, need to live much better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u159	A respectable president. I'm going to do a few words on the budget bill that's up to 2nd. and use this opportunity as well as briefly as an explanation for the changes proposed by the government in the treatment of 2nd. and we've met today at a joint press conference. Interestingly, when you look at the budget bill, as it came from the government and now after the treatment of the budget committee, it is painful to see that humans do not take advantage of the opportunities that this budget and improving the interests of government funds create to address various problems that you should agree on as to the need for improvement. There is no difference, for example, that after a lot of conservative years, after having to deal with an economic crisis, where all classes came to agree with or enforce the World Bank Bank maintenance programme, we should all be able to agree that once a multi-year programme has been implemented, there is an overall need for investment in many countries. This is true of health care and especially the Land Hospital, which includes many other types of infrastructure, the road system, the school system, and so on. In the suggestions we presented today, we recommend that we respond to the natural wishes of the governor of the Land Hospital for further funding for the management and maintenance of the hospital. It is true that with the exception of recent losses and seeing a greater proportion of the legal committees ignore the tips and bring some kind of terror in the form of 30 million financial contributions to make an examination of the obvious facts that are faced by all who visit the Hospital or who need to be there. In recent years, we in the United States, we have visited several branch offices of the Land Hospital, and it has been an amazing experience ever since we saw the garbage stores outside the ICU and the situation that employees have no personnel, since it has sacrificed them to be invited by those who are seriously ill or injured to some place in order to see the emergency departments where the word is being said is so. It does not honor us if we do not meet our natural needs or need for maintenance in the hospital, so we put ourselves in the position of government to make adjustments in that regard. We also suggest that social security and pensions raise the same amount as the lowest wage in the next year as we also contributed to the budget paid earlier today. It was very interesting to hear the highest. The secretary of finance came here after he had been squeezed up into the platform because of the prominent absence of the management staff from the platform, when he tried to insist that because the government has done nothing but give only money to reduce, which, anyway, were temporary maintenance operations in the wake of a financial collapse, as long as a law had been established, it would have been prepared to transfer pension recipients to any of these reforms that they were much better than anyone else in society. He was standing here like a rooster at a dump and tried to convey to us the message that sensibilities of sensibilities were due to these corrections in their position that they should not comply with general pay development in the country. This is a completely different interpretation, and even in spite of the declines with temporary temporary measures followed by economic collapse, the minimum improvement was left to the minimum in the last terms, as I explained today. On the basis of the material reasons for this sensuous explanation the highest. The secretary of finance is nothing. It is important to remind that since collapse the minimum improvement in social security has not been impaired in the maintenance measures and was accompanied by the development of the low paying contracts in 2011 when a special minimum wage agreement was made, and this was out of the legal obligation of the state. Then that material attitude was taken in the government. A respectable president. We also suggest adjustments in the reformers, meeting family members with two measures this time. On one hand, we propose an increase in the roof of your birthworm to 500. K. and, on the other hand, an increase in children's impairment criteria so that children's improvement will not begin to be impaired until you reach 270. A.J., minimum wage. Let's take the first one, raise the roof of our birth Orlofs. The government raised the roof of a baby's womb by 20 o'clock. K. Shortly after she took over, from 350 yous. K. of 370 you. K. Since then, it has been uninstalled, and now the financial bill shows that this coin is standing unchanged for three whole calendar wounds, taking no merits, despite all the developments that have been involved in the bigots all that time. Increase by 370. K. of 500 you. K. In the roof, it may seem a big leap on first sight, but it is worth reminding us that when we gave 2009 a bill for the maintenance of government operations and temporarily dropped the roof to 350 levels. K. this number was selected because 350 of you have been selected. K. corresponded to 80% of the country's averages. Now 500 you answer. K. to 80% of the average population in the country, as expected they will be in the middle of the next year. So it is, in particular, the natural compensation of this roof, which, of course, should have happened every year as if it were other financial compensations, but it has not been done by the government. She has neglected financial compensations, and as a result, her birthworm system is further weakened. The same trend has been evident in the government in other general income distribution systems. Now you need to be careful because on the side of the administrative side, some theory has been developed that compensation is only for low-payers and that it should not be paid in favor of anyone but poor people. Berbs should be a albino for those who have no otherwise alimony. We heard it on the front call. Secretary of finance today, when he spoke of what we wanted to do, it was to pass on child damage to high - paying professionals. The child - reform system is now so twisted that a couple with one child will start to interfere with 200 of yours. K. a month's pay, far below the minimum, and will be completely impaired at 409 you. K. They'll disappear. I repeat, because people get a little bit carried away with this: a couple with one child will start to interfere with 200 of yours. K. So it's just the poorest people who get minor damages and 409 of us. K. ... theyareabsolutely reduced. The cutting line is similar to that of a married couple with more children, yet it is severely impaired by the average wage in the country. There is some confusion in the board of directors about the nature of child reforms, growth reforms, and obscenities. It's not a forwarding system to make up poor pay to the underpayers as it seems to be in the management sector to turn them into. The administrative part is going to follow the way the conservative party is following in Britain to change public social support to pay off disaster pay and to allow pirate companies to have people on unsurpassed low wages, but to stop supporting people with medium incomes. Since the approval of Prime Minister Bjarni Benediktsson in 1966, there have been official support for the construction of the cohesion of the majority of people, and later has been published in the general child reforms, e.g. after the changes in the tax system that began in the finance minister of the Þorsteinn of Pálsson Paul. What is involved is a complete apostasy from the course followed by the old Independence Party in official support of the average carers. This is amazing, then, if we look at the history of the Superficial Party and the work of Steingrímur son of Hermannsson and Halldór Ásgrímsson in governments or the son of Eysteinn, the Jónsson of Jónasson, so here it is being introduced an entire violation of the decades - long history of the land's public recovery. It has been built on, as it did in the North countries, that even if family members have high wages, the cost of children may be high - paying costs. In time for economic downturns, it has been tempted to add more money to child - welfare benefits. This was particularly careful in the down cycle back then, during the course of life, during which it was a time of madness, and it always seemed urgent to disappear again. It was always a declared goal of child development here, as in other parts of northern Europe, to meet the additional cost of having children and caring for them regardless of whether people were too broke to have children in their heads. Just as growth reforms were thought of as a contribution to the State to carry interest costs, which in this country have always been much higher than in neighboring countries, the contribution of the State to the establishment of a state's highest interest level. The process has been negotiated in the collective agreement, and as a result, interest improvements have gone up very high on the income ladder. The change in the history of this government is that there has been no automatic improvement in the level of income loss in the growth system and that is why it has happened, as we are living here in the budget today, that growth improvements are going on because it doesn't go out. This year, because real - estate evaluations increased, not because the fallback was working, but because it was accidentally forming a paper property. The people are left behind with as much payment as before the government saves them money. [[Up front.]] The birthworm was arranged to make sure that all the majority of both sexes could care for their children in their maternity vacations. Thus, this operation had not only consistent goals but also progressive ones. Sadly, in the 2009 cutoff period, we had to choose the equality goal, or the forward aim, and suffer from temporary maintenance measures. There was no impairment of observatory because the roof was only to those in the middle and above. That certainly was an imperfect solution, but we tried many others. The statue of the hysteria was even worse, and the evidence suggests that this was probably the worst way to go. But it is absolutely irresponsible to let the low roof that was thus created in a historical crisis live for years in the greatest years of Iceland's history. That's what we're going to do. Then we see now that the government and the highest. A financial minister has arranged for the International Bank of Pays to make some odd report that it is best to break peace in a Icelandic labour market, stop paying a few compensations to average earners, and force all public support pay on the worst. This, in turn, leads to the root of the North American welfare system. The norse welfare systems were the common fate of the average earners, the middle - income classes, and the lesser ones. We know from the political story that if the official support is only limited to tiny ones or to make individualized groups of the worst, the political community of welfare support collapses, as well as the desire of the average carers to contribute to a system that it cannot get out of itself. Therefore, all Norwegian communities have been equal, and social justice has been a means of ensuring general support. It is a very interesting input from the government into the serious situation in Iceland, as young people are growing, although professional conditions are good, to find a future elsewhere because it offers better pay, better child benefits, longer maternity and less expensive playschool. Do I need to go on? In Denmark, access to scholarships is offered outside housing that saves one whole apartment on the job. If they choose to own their first apartment in a foreign country, they will be able to pay just over one flat, if all is considered, but here they have to pay just over two. Is this government's message, then, to hang even more sand bags on the generation that is already seeing the expected future in other countries? Is it a message to this government that in one of the states there should not be any support system that covers average child reforms, interest improvements, or maternity rates? It will have a very serious effect on Icelandic society, and I find it odd to see how quiet and silent this ideological renewal has taken place in the administrative sector, without the fact that there have been any arguments in the community, without ever having been discussed publicly in the policy-makers of these political parties who have always spoken for others. Of course, this is a significant warning shot against the labor movement, which is now trying to defend the real value of improvement in the civil conflict created by the government in a general labour market. Then I'd just like to briefly kill on some of the other aspects of our proposals to the management side of the budget and spend most of the powder at the end of the tax business. We expect a considerable rise to college and funds to lift the mass limits in high school. There is no need to exclude people over 25 years of age from high school, and there is no reason to view the decrease in high school students as we see today. This is due to political choice, just as it was no accident, in the spring of 2014 there was a 35% increase in graduates of the University of Iceland in 2009. Note, during the most contract years and the most destructive years of Iceland's history, the number of graduates from the University of Iceland grew by 35%. This was because we made a political decision to open our schools and to create more opportunities to grow in knowledge during these difficult times to ease the labour market and invest in education and knowledge. We also make investments in the interior. There's an additional budget that's important and that we add to the maintenance and innovation of road construction, a serious project on the climate problem so that Iceland can maintain some of the promises that the government hopefully makes in Paris this week, and we'll put up some other justice issues. Of these, I'm only going to mention two of them because there are a temporary emergency, increased donations to the arrival of refugees, and increased support to immigrants. This is vital in view of our knowledge of the problem in refugees. Some 35% of the candidates are refugees from countries that are considered safe but that are, in fact, people who have an opportunity and who want to get to better circumstances. Because, as the situation exists today, there is no reason to reduce their treatment to hope just to have people have legitimate expectations of being here. If there's no way we're going to be here, it's more human, more natural, more reasonable to settle matters quickly and safely, of course, to take care of all the sufficiency and correct handling procedures in the judiciary system than to resolve things without any unusual attraction. This requires additional financial resources. It also takes increased support for immigrants to facilitate their adaptation into Icelandic society. It is very important for us to make sure that we can work against alien spirit and fear that immigrants who already live here will have the opportunity to learn Icelandic and to adapt to Icelandic society. On the other hand, I would like to mention the small funds we contribute to the initiative checker of the Generals. It is quite clear in my mind that after an agent took up observation of the office records of the then state of the highest office. The minister of the state and the decision to misuse it had to make sure that he did not have the room to reunnece in such initiatives. The words as the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Under the course of the study, the secretary of finance was not setting an example in Western democracies. Then, when the independence of an agent is supported by a cutdown on budgets to take care of the initiative, there is only one conclusion that can be drawn. Iceland's reputation is at stake here, our reputation as a country that respects human rights and rights, respects control and good governance. There is good reason to address this development in the EEA's member countries and in the European Commission and in the security and cooperation of the European Commission. I'd like to direct it to the members of the council where these indications are to be expressed to those institutions. A respectable president. Finally, I will spend a few words talking about the tax policy of this government. She's interesting in more okay. No government, at least not since 1940, for the manufacturer's sake, I mean the manufacturer in a particular industry, and I put their interests before the commercial interests of the whole or nation of the whole. What was once known in the Independence category, the consumer view, the attitude of free competition, the attitude of commercial freedom, has been oppressed in the history of that government. This is the ideal government of the manufacturers, just as it was when Ólafur Thor and Jónas frá Hrifla were assembled in the National Bank banking board, each taking care of the fishing empire and the Union and the Southland's Fight Company, sharing public funds, and building his political empire around such outcasts. This political policy has been in the rejuvenating of life in the history of this government, and nothing shows it better than the tax policy. When I asked the highest. The secretary of finance here yesterday to the reduction in insurance fees that 300 companies have requested to become a priority which the entire sector of employment has requested to become a top priority, he said that it was not a financial budget. However, financial allowance depends on how the tax policy works, and the insurance bill is a tax that certainly affects an enterprise but very variable. He puts far more weight on a small company than on a large one, so he's a special tax on a small company, a new company. He prefers knowledge companies more than others because the nature of the case in accordance is more common in knowledge companies than in others. The insurance bill is a difference between jobs. The cost of pay is typically 80% in knowledge companies. It's 8% at the plant in Straumsvík. At the same time that this government says that there is no room to reduce the insurance fee, it is letting the electricity tax flow out that the industry has paid. Why is there room for that, not to cut the same amount of insurance? Why does the government of this recovery force want to place special taxes on knowledge companies and their resources while protecting the big business from taxation of its resources? What makes the big industry so much better and more important as a industry that it enjoys tax freedom in its resources while the knowledge companies are supposed to pay taxes on their own? If the government's position were that the insurance fee could not be lowered because there was no room for it in the government business, it would be a simple way to solve it. She's paying taxes to somebody else. Business taxes can be increased, income taxes can be raised on individuals, and insurance costs can be lowered in return. It is, at least, taxing on profits made, profits from work, or profit from production. But it's just taxing on the resources of some companies by keeping the insurance fee so high. What about the construction companies? There, too, this government is on the particular mission of reducing spells to the forework. The insurance bill does not weigh as much there as in knowledge companies because of the nature of the sector. Then, when we see that this year's hunting fees are down to 7 billion, but the profit of the production, because of its low oil price, is 10 billion per year you scratch your head and think, " How can it be that the government is ready for just one tax in your job life, the insurance bill? ' At the same time, new sectors grow, tourism. She has 32% of the nation's currency income, the nation's largest export, a very important target of growth. But what are we doing? Do we have it paid by user fees for the structure needed to go to tourist stations and in the road system to meet this growing number of tourists? No, that was the government's ass, gave an inexpensive idea of a natural pass that everyone knew could never be realized, then gave up the mission with a minister of the Ministry who has done nothing for three years except bring this one bad idea. Is this article being made to make a natural contribution to the State? No, no, she's done. We provide by the general tax money to build up services for this sector, by the general tax that we could be giving in the health or education system. Some professions can only be taxed. Some occupational resources should be taxed, protected, and not even paid normal share in the costs of their services. They don't even pay fees. We live in a road system that was not designed for another million tourists each year. It takes an enormous investment in the roads to separate road policies in order to increase safety, etc. We need to improve significantly in the construction of tourist facilities. The opportunity is now when the people are coming and they may be paying off the sum that each tourist would not notice, but we could secure money to build well and carefully travel places, avoid access, provide natural security, and environmental protection. No, no, let's just state it. So the directors of the EEA's Continental Department often insist that the government side sees nothing but increased government spending and control. Hear the endemity. There will be a national construction branch, and it is immediately taken into the breast of the government. She's already subsidized. It doesn't take to speak of this as a government professional policy. This is the critical position in which all government decisions on business and tax matters are measured in the interest of a few companies and their organizations, thus deciding whether they are good or bad. They are not measured for the overall interests of life, not what they can bring to all of us as a community, not what they can do to improve the opportunity to increase for people who don't see the future in Iceland anymore. No, no, they're measured only for the interests of the few. I'm not going to extend this whole thing any more, I see that it's about to go to bed at midnight. Hence, it is tragic to see these financial provisions at the hands of the lost. This is not due to the burden - producing process, which goes through unprecedented period of prosperity, such as the sea route this year and, as it has been in the last two years. They are not made to contribute to the development of infrastructure in the community as they should. At the same time, we are cutting down the welfare system that we have had in subsidies to help people at different times in life and especially when they are getting roofed over their heads or having children. The message to young people in the middle of an already spent much less money here than in neighboring countries is: Just get lost. We're going to stay here with our friends from the big, big, free friends. We're gonna run it like a plant for us. Get out of here. Don't hang around here. It is a sad message when everything falls with an Icelandic nation, when the opportunities are unacceptable, and we could be doing so many good things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u160	A respectable president. I have seldom heard more sad talk from a president of a political party than just this very speech. Árnason That's what I have to say. Amazingly, members of the United States can paint a dark picture based on half - truths and deception. First, I want the senator to point it out, because the fishing fees and productions are often referred to, when these senators are involved, as the greatest business of the country - they can be thrown into it as much as they have in their bags - that on page 20. 8 of the Committee's Department 2. A smaller section of the budget board, why. paritaprevir Olsen, a tablet, shows that in the year 2016, hunting charges are being paid in the same currency as they were in the last government in 2012, in the United States. I'm not sure there's a price update on this calculation. Prior to 2013, the government certainly had a 13.5 billion requirement for the fishing project, but it was also an election year; it had to finance all the elections in that campaign, and it was widely carried out, trying to find money and charges raised; it is always the figure in question. A respectable president. This government, which sat during the last term, was so memorable from power. My question is, is why. paritaprevir (Árni) What questions remain to be answered? Páll's Árnason date has been followed by the chairman of the Continental Society to consider the lesser portion of his representative being printed? It presents a misbehavior about RUS, where wrong numbers and wrong information are used; I originally asked that question in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u161	A respectable president. I'll start by reviewing it before then. A senator's arrangements in the history of the last government and the sum of fishing fees, which are certainly true to be similar to what is currently, were started on a process that was to give the nation a real benefit from the resource and a natural share in the resource use that will exist in the industry for free access to the nation's resources. It is normal for producers to provide access to common resources, such as everyone who gains access to common resources. It is a matter of justice, and it ensures the level of employment. I know that the concept is alien members of this government sector, who are striving to create facilities between sectors by providing some with common resources, while taxing others for having people with knowledge for work, for the great crime of trying to build up knowledge in the country. The best fishing arrangements are what the Conspiracy has always proposed - because we lacked the company that would allow us to pass it through, because we did not have a political body, the Syndicate, during the last term. [[Why didn't you?]] The first route is by far the best way in which part of the fishing warrants, where they go into the market, to form market prices, thus ensuring natural prices on the market. There is no need to determine a currency, too high in isolated cases or too low, at present, in others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u162	A respectable president. Much here is revealed as the night passes. First of all, the senator did not say whether the committee was being printed on a smaller section of the budget, and second, it was said that the United States was serving six years in the government and had its policy to adopt an expiration route in the sea, but never had a more connier part, located in two governments. Of course, this is not an acceptable, dignified president, explaining why the regimen is so small and why it was elected less memorable from power along with its partners in the last election. The left greens have just the same opinion as the marine economistic cohesion, taking up the expiration route, as well as the national use of sea resources, instead of the widely accepted arrangement, of the greeting system. I remind you, Icelandic fishing exports are not official, as we do in the countries we compare with. - A respectable president. So this is both bankruptcy and bankruptcy. The Senator reviewed it in his talk about refugees - I'm going to grab the above of the committee's opinion from a smaller section of the legal committee, with the permission of a president, entitled "Flyingers. " The United States has proposed that the Icelandic government welcome at least 500 refugees over the next three years, with a rapid increase in the number of refugees and worsening of their situation. According to the Conspiracy proposal, at least 100 refugees will be invited here in 2015, 200 in 2016, and 200 in 2017. [...] In this context, there is a suggestion that Iceland will welcome at least 500 people in three years of moderateness and normalness. A respectable president. So I ask. paritaprevir Árni ago, Páll Árnason, president of the United States, said: "What will be the price of the proposal presented here in this committee's party? [[The president calls.]] I can't find any adjustment proposal for spending extras in the modified memory of the part.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u163	A respectable president. To answer that question, like what? A senator well knows that the government's opposition is not going to allow the cost of the bills it presents. It is a great flaw; a defect in the council, a defect in the council, and a natural flaw. So a senator will direct and secure funding for the council so that we can get an estimate of government capitals, that would be a great improvement. That is why I cannot answer the necessary question about expenses. Government senators do not have a position to have it calculated. With regard to a question earlier regarding the radio charge, it is very remarkable to hear the administrative part climbing that it was the last government to determine the decline in radio rate to 16.400k. [[Up front.]] It's just wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u164	Act 23/2013.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u165	Laws 23/2013 covered the radio fee, which was changed in the budget of the current government in December 2013, as a bill on income-presidents of budgeting. The change required a reduction to 16,400k. Hv. A senator must know his own work, this is her work, this is at her command of the government. [[Up front.]] It's a government boxworm... more of the part you're sitting in right now, and it stands. [[Up front.]] It's amazing to have to stand here to put a verbal blow to the chairman of the legal committee on the obvious facts about what is in the law that she himself has been established for. There must be a pause in the world's resources in a confusional discussion of the budget. It is simply so that this government determined the decline of the radio charge, and this government must fulfill its own work. She can't in this, as in everything else she's tried to do, all her time, shield herself behind the last government. [[The president calls.]] She has to try to do her own work once.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u166	President. Hv. paritaprevir A Árni later, Páll Árnason mentioned the insurance fee. On the other hand, he spoke of a cutdown on the insurance fee of up to 2% in terms of losing unemployment. However, the insurance share, i.e. The job insurance bill itself, is 1.35%, and it can't be lowered by 2% so that it would have to reduce the overall insurance bill, which is 5.9%, but because it's a price, money should be very well worth it. A lot of things go into pension and accident insurance, which seems to be going into some kind of pit in a insurance institution and may be harder to follow, but because it's a fee, we should know where it goes, because we need to reevaluate every year whether the fee is too high or too low. A little correction on the child-fixing. A person's cutting begins at 200 points. K., coexistence begins at 400s. K., which is still very low. That is true of nearly 10% of the population, with the highest 10% income of your 192 - year - old population. K. or, in salary, that's a mean of proportion. As far as the maternity is concerned, I feel that there is a measure of measurable goals in which it was rightly said that mainly higher - paying fathers have taken statues from birth. For impairment the ratio was very equal; everyone took a similar far birthlord. [[The president calls.]] It would be interesting to know how we can get it back without costing too much money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u167	A respectable president. Of course, in terms of the insurance bill and its disposition, part of it goes into a birth - free orb, part of it goes on pension insurance. In turn, it is always sobering in the way we finance unemployment. I spoke against it here in my day as a social minister to raise the insurance bill. It was the decision of the company of the labour market to request, and in particular, that insurance be raised. I warned that because unemployment would increase, and it would make it even more expensive to hire people. I'd rather we do some other tax deduction. That was the result. But this is a harmful tax, and it is not necessarily a good thing to have it even if it comes to a good cause because, in general, high pay taxes are not appropriate. That's what I say as an officer of an equal class who has always stressed two things, well - being and work. It is not right to let it be expensive to get people to work. Of course, the goal of a change in the birthworm is to increase the number of people it takes, and especially the number of fathers. However, it is a very interesting reply by Godish Guðbjartur of Hannesson to a petition at the council of 20121⁄2013. It shows that those who should be taken as babies after a collapse were struck down by fathers who were not affected at all. The burden of home debt increased, and people could not afford to go to 80% of their income. The other thing that happened was that SA at that time was a very negative discussion about the birthworm of fathers, and people feared that the work would not be there when they returned from maternity. [[The president calls.]] It was very interesting to answer, but they did not show that creditors of fathers stopped taking birthworm. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u168	President. I'll say that fathers in general would take a much shorter birthworm too, depending on the damages. Another thing I'd like to mention right now about the change in my share is the various budget teams, which are all compensations. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson's son that it would be very nice to see where the funding comes from. Is there a cutback, or is there some source of income? I think it might be more responsible to bring up ideas of financing. But like a dog. A candidate mentioned that the smaller portion is not a good access to cost analysis, so it is more difficult for us to offer such suggestions in a smaller way. How, for example, should contributions be made to the emissary and the imprisoned emissaries? Be sure to prepare for the construction at the General Building, which is some 75 million. K. Is that where you're coming from? It will do well, even if more was to be built at the World Hall of 75 million. K. taking the long way to do it, so I don't quite know why it's necessary to prepare for such a huge number of millions. That's one example. It would be nice to have some ideas about where the money is to come from for all these additional expenditures.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-08-49.u169	A respectable president. First of all, we recognize this in a general way of changing the proposals about them. Of course, there are many things the government has done to weaken the income side since it began, which makes much room for us to fix it when we return to the government. Our goal is to create a complete, income - growing system that, for example, does not discriminate the sector as the government is doing today, a income - harvest system that is just and fair and would make more money than is available today. Then we'll start a few things. I'd especially like to mention cash from banks. It is dangerous always to rely too much on such factors, which are not always being given, but much of what we offer is personal action or actions that make special investments because of a special situation. It is very relevant to all aspects of the road and structure there. This is also true in part at the Land Hospital especially, so a lot of the activities we make are in nature, so taking money to finance them is not risky. Then, the commercial income needs to be completely altered. It's a little strange to have a government that's ready to punish knowledge companies but that's what makes it happen. It's just the choice of this government. It's her professional policy; her knowledge out, her first product home. It seems to be the focus line. We want another form of employment that does not differ from industry, which ensures that all articles provide access to mutual resources and will thus become fully equal and more competitive for labour. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
