ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u1	To answer, financial and economic ministers, health ministers, educational and cultural ministers and foreign ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u2	A respectable president. Now it is becoming clear how much confusion and confusion in the labour market the government and the majority of the council's decision this weekend to impose laws on the work of a partner in BHM and a friend of nurses. We've got reports of nurses informing us. We see criticism from reputable lawyers as to the fact that despite the supreme. The secretary of finance has said here last week that while there is some business venture, there is no need to impose a law on a strike, there is no reason to set up a law of 12 of 17 people who are not even involved in a strike. Only five out of 17 people have a strike. Of the others, the Constitution is the right to free collective agreements and to test strike demands. That's why you must have to ask the highest. Minister how such extensive intervention harmonizes with his declarations that there is no need for legal action during negotiations. What's your chief plan? A minister already sees the consequences, the resignations of nurses? V.E.G. Ministers had agreements with doctors that included significant increases on the basis of the need to protect health care because this was an important profession. It was all true, but all the same evidence applies also to nurses and other large groups of women within the medical system. How's the top? A minister to resolve the dilemma he has already set for himself and his people by having no complete policy in the case of health - class matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u3	Mr. President. Now, of course, the question is, What will this discussion be considered? If people want to go down to this plan and say that the government has nothing to offer, as if it were possible to try to fight over these matters there and then it might be nice to recall that nurses gave up a valid bargain in their last term, if I remember correctly said in another hundred nurses during their last term, and then they threatened to go to Norway instead. As a result, the government had made a special agreement with the director and treated him well at the hospital. Everything went crazy. The government has assigned its negotiation committee to this issue quite far off. What has been available in this contract is a raise of about 20% and a scholarship to institutions. I don't know where the United States is in this case. It seems to be just to walk up to all the demands as they are described. But you can't do that, unfortunately. Just the fact that men are writing here for the next three years in general in the general market and the various classes for raises, which are about 20%, of course, disproportionate to all that is going on all over the world. We've had more money gain last year than we've known anywhere else in Europe. There's some sense to get out of here from the council. May I ask that at least they acknowledge that there is a law in these matters? If you don't come here, I'd like you to say, "Let's raise your salary by 30% or 40% because you think there's a hit that day. " [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] That's what it's all about. A senator who calls out to those before, above, the general raises that run on the numbers I mentioned, will be improved by a gliding of 1,99525% over the next three years. [[The president calls.]] I'm not actually talking about the fact that the requirement stands up to 30%, but maybe it's nearly 40 to 50% when you're taking it into account. [[The president calls.]] We can discuss this here, but the deal will eventually be made at the bargaining table.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u4	A respectable president. That's interesting. The secretary of finance does not merely say that he has disbarred the terms of a number of non-approaching unions. That's very interesting. He just doesn't interrupt the value of the Constitution rights of these people. V.E.G. Then a minister digbournly speaks, demanding harmony on the side of the United States. We in the United States would surely have, if we had been in the government, would have set up a whole-scale dress policy in cooperation with the hired people's organisation. That's what you did. Minister not. He single - handedly chose to negotiate with one of the things he could not give to others. V.E.G. A minister has already negotiated with the doctors for exemplary raises on the basis that this class is necessary for the health system, and he cannot deny others who are equally important to the health care system. The same law applies to others. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A minister must have some other way in which he should point out and south to anyone other than himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u5	Mr. President. The talk about the bill ended on Saturday, so I'm not going to repeat it here. [[Up front.]] She went forward then, and with the bill presented there follow arguments that answer all that is being served here. This discussion will not be repeated in short question period. The fact is, the Conspiracy has had nothing to say in the collective affairs of public employees rather than in pretending to do everything for everyone and to agree to all the demands of a strike or to threaten a strike. [[Up front.]] When doctors were in a strike, they were always up here saying, "Just deal with the doctors, you have a responsibility to negotiate with the doctors. It doesn't matter what the requirement is, you have to negotiate with the doctors. It is now said that humans negotiated with the doctors for something that cannot be passed on to others. In this particular case, if they want to know, the State has offered nurses an approximate 20% increase in the years to come. I can say that the pay of nurses in the North countries is not about to raise that amount. [[The president calls.]] It's a long way off, but it's not gonna happen in one contract. We can offer a lot of compensation, and we can offer more stability than is valid, but not all requirements can be met.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u6	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the highest. Healthcare Minister on his assessment of health care status after the last procedures of the Commission. Even though it's the highest. The secretary of finance said before the court said that the deal would be fixed at the bargain table, the government decided to go another way this weekend when the law was set on strike at BHM and the partner of Icelandic nurses. It hit me what I saw spoke of the highest. A health minister in front of the News News magazine today following news of the massive resignations of nurses. An entire nurse's watch goes to the intensive care unit of Hospitals. There are six nurses, one with 30 years'experience in three countries. At least 11 of the approximately 20 nurses of the Hospital Heart and Pulmonary Surgery Department are going to leave their jobs today, according to the same report. It also shows that there is great frustration and frustration among nurses because of the legalization of the strike and that the health - care system is unable to tolerate reports, but it remains at the highest level. A minister in the front of the newsletter today that the narratives are a reality that the institutions have to deal with. I must ask the highest. Minister: In view of the fact that governments have now brought a very harsh intervention into the dispute, where the government will be used to support these organizations. This article discussed the legal process that for the development of a further building in the medical facility, but here we are looking up at a very serious position at the Land Hospital as well as at other clinics, and the institutions cannot be referred to all the responsibility to deal with the present crisis. I'm sure it's the highest. A minister would agree with me. The latest news that I have seen has not yet been offered a negotiation. We have a short period of time, to July 1 when the sentence is due to be initiated. [[The president calls.]] What will be the contribution of the government to solve this urgent health crisis in the event of the layoffs?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u7	A respectable president. For asking as long as possible. A senator points out and quotes the words used in the News News magazine that are just as follows, this is the reality that our institutions in the system are facing. With those words, I'm in no way giving all the responsibility for this position to the institutions, the thinking of this is not the way it is. I contacted the medical directors for the weekend and agreed with them. For example, my final conversation with the director of the Land Hospital, which is the furthest place in all of this, was just before noon, and he still had no information about the scope of the narratives discussed here. He points out, if I remember correctly, that about 100 head managers are accepting such from the staff of the Land Hospital so that the overall view of the problem in the process is not in the situation today but that there is clearly a growing problem, unfortunately, and in many ways there is anger and hurt of nurses is most understandable in view of the action being taken. Well, I have a complete understanding of that. Our main task today is to redesign the work that needs to be done in the hospital, organize their work, and especially in the light of the situation that has come up, including the one that has been completed. in discussions about the law bill this weekend, related to the summer leave of staff. It is obvious that we do not see the solution to the problem in the system within the next few weeks or months. This is much bigger and bigger than that, so we'll work out in a single expression.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u8	Mr. President. V.E.G. Ministers claim to have a great grasp of a difficult situation, but I do not ask just the problem of reorganizing the task of working out what has been lost, for it has, of course, been shown that there may have been a considerable period of time here, months, to have gone into captivity. There's a waiting list and something like that. That's not what I'm asking. I'm asking what kind of cards the government can bring to prevent further data from becoming, to meet the staff of health care professionals who have quit or to consider divulging according to the law that the greater part approved here on Saturday. I cannot help but notice those in charge of health care who have said that there is something new to be introduced into this discussion, into a dress interview, to make peace, in order to create a lasting level of work in the health system. I agree with the president of the Land Hospital, I agree with a surgeon in his letter to the government, who said that there would be a need to create a permanent domestic peace in the medical system and that legislation on strikes would not be necessary to increase it unless there was something much else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u9	A respectable president. When the surgeon's statement that a strike law will not create a lasting domestic peace, I believe most members of this body of surgeon's position on this dispute. He spoke very strongly of the government's resorting to the system of things that eventually came under attack. When you discuss how you can meet the point of building up a position, it is in my mind in two ways that you negotiate with employees I wait to begin preening a covenant that declared it to be the case before a board of directors that they agree to report to a meeting after a weekend. This is the second thing. The other thing is that we're now working on a waiting list in the system, and I'm waiting for the surgeon's work on how we can prioritize the work that's been there for months. [[The president calls.]] That's the big thing in my mind, how we can serve the people who have suffered in the past two months, especially not having their health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u10	A respectable president. I think it's quite safe to say that Icelanders are in great competition with other nations for educated workers, about experts, and that there is every reason to worry about it at this point, and in fact, long ago, whether we Icelanders are competing with other nations for educated workers. I think it's especially possible to worry about it after the weekend's law. It is said to be a very poor prospect for large institutions in government, health institutions. There's a lot of lay-offs and designers that I don't see men doing a lot trying to solve. That is a problem that has been faced for a long time. I'd like to try to discuss these matters with the highest level. Financial and economic ministers in a little more context than just linked agreements and the events. What is the government doing? What does she intend to do in order not to compete for this educated labor? We're looking at a bad situation, but it's also just a bad business. We have public funds to educate these people and, of course, want them to be taxpayers in Iceland in the future, bringing their talents and expertise into an Icelandic community to build them up. We don't want to move out this labor, but that's what's happening. Before I say my view of these matters in the latter part of my inquiry, I would like to ask the highest. Minister: Is he concerned about the position of educated workers in Iceland, that we are getting involved in competition? [[The president calls.]] Does he understand the people who have now planned to leave the country and work elsewhere? What does he want to say to those people?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u11	Mr. President. I feel as if a person would put up with the opening point in such a discussion that it's just a matter of hope, and it's getting worse when it's the opposite. Here is more economic growth than elsewhere and the longest economic growth in recent times as Icelanders have lived in recent times, more money gains, less unemployment, more growth and maintenance in basic work projects. Yes, there's a demand for a suitable job force in Iceland, but there's evidence of what it is when the Norse picks up the kind of nurses they really do? Is not there a great lack of design in the health - care system there? Isn't it, then, a sign of weakness in the Norwegians that they can't make positions in Norway? Is that not a serious health problem in Norway? Or is it just gonna be when there's a model problem in Iceland? If we look at our situation fairly and compare our position with those in neighboring countries or other European countries, the situation is quite bright ahead. Do I worry about the loss of qualified people? Yeah, I'm worried about that. But looks aren't that bad. There is good reason to be optimistic about our ability to, with the right steps, one step at a time, to turn our defense into an application in these specific areas. If we want to consider how we can in the future expand our valuables, we need to consider much more subjects. For example, we need to accept that in the field of engineering and technology, we are the submers of others. We do not graduate from trade studies by people who are able to meet the needs of their professional life today. To meet the differing demands of the future, we need a vastly higher education system. But it seems to me that this conversation opened up here is only linked to people from the health sector. [[The president calls.]] If we compare the Icelandic health system with that in other places, we are very good. There is no need to enter this discussion as if we are in the postwar period or something like that. And doctors, well meant, are moving home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u12	A respectable president. I'm not calmer after that answer. I advertise for the purity and realistic discussion of the fact that in certain departments at the Land Hospital, for example, all nurses are giving up jobs, even in those spoken words, in the event of a recent announcement. There is no bright future in their departments for the next loss. A very difficult problem is faced. Could it be that people may be unhappy with the remuneration burden of student loans, that people may be unhappy to find that the birth of a stock is in a swampy picture? That the housing system does not help people to cover their heads? Dinner's high. Meetings don't have much in the community. People feel misunderstood as to the value created here. It could be that if the highest. A minister may think a bit outside the box, he sees a solution in the community that has been discussed and resolved, if we solved it, to keep educated labor, educated people, talented people, in Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u13	It was as if I suspected it was going through many parts of this discussion. Am I worried about that -- [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] A respectable president. At a assembly hall, there is much unrest, and there are discrepancies when it comes to the discussion with views that are not the norm. It is a question of whether the government might prefer to discuss some other matter or to discuss a meeting with a president - or give you a chance to respond to an inquiry. [[Up front.]] I see on the faces of a council hall there's no interest in answering a question. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[Take it up: A proud man.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u14	Mr. President. V.E.G. A health minister responded. paritaprevir That's not exactly what a surgeon named Jakobsdóttir told him. During the past month, surgeon generals have sent this government three letters that clearly show that there is no longer one way to ensure the safety of patients in the health system and that this problem has to be solved. One way or another, President. One way is a short-term solution, says surgeon. He does not say that the sufferers should be legalized, but he noted that if this is not solved by contracts, it is a short - term solution. That's what surgeon general says. There's another way that's clear and it's natural to make deals. Such a solution in the past month would have meant that the condition had been prevented from ensuring patient safety. The government sat with it for a month. It could have been solved, but then it would have been necessary to prioritize the health benefits of the tax system. That would have been possible. There is another way, however, a surgeon did not say at the time that there was to be a law against strikes. According to surgeon, there must be one way or another stop a strike, one way or another, it must be kept clear. In fact, the short - term solution given to members of the greater part by suing laws on the strike, a short - term solution, says surgeon, is a very short - term solution that health - care problems are restored because nurses are planning to resign on a large scale. [[The president calls.]] Has the highest. Is that a health minister's assessment of the danger? Has he not spoken to health officials in Iceland and considered that danger? What's the danger? Has the health secretary answered?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u15	A respectable president. In one way or another, you're right. What's up, man? A senator, when patients with a variety of lesions sit and wait for negotiation committees of state and trade unions to take place that these same people can get their legal services? There is no progress in negotiations or negotiations week after week, month after month. BHM and the state began to discuss this subject in December. We have people who sit and are referred to, and they may need immediate action after four weeks or six weeks. How long should the responsible man of the system sit under contract committees in the tire marks? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u16	The state belongs to...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u17	How long should a responsible man of the system sit under such a position? Is he not obliged to suggest a solution? [[To try to...]] During the discussion over the weekend, it was not surprising that members of the council who came up here and objected to legalization would take a position based on these views. You can readily agree to have compassion for a trade union whose position falls into legalization, but my sympathy has been with patients for a considerable long time, and I miss very much not hearing stronger voices here during the weekend's discussion of that matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u18	Mr. President. The key is the exact safety of patients. [[Take it up to the bottom of the road.]] The government was told about a month ago that patients could not be assured of safety and that one way or another needed to be resolved was to do so. The government decided instead of setting up an extra budget - no, not all requirements need to be met, all know that not everything needs to be met, but it has to be done well with health care professionals that they want to be in Iceland. [[Up front.]] It's not being done right now, and we can see it. In one way or another, the surgeon says. It's the highest. A health minister telling me that the state could not have set aside more money for this group and therefore would have stopped the strikes?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u19	The entire council is running the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u20	Is that right? Here, the secretary of finance says: The Council is in charge of the government. Everybody knows that. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Ministers mark their policy on how money is spent in this community. All of us, though, know that the book says that the General is taking the package. Everyone knows that these stewards are really in control. [[The president calls.]] In one way or another, are not there really the authority to assign more money from the government to ensure that money goes to a first - grade health system? That's what I'm talking about. A health minister is saying?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u21	A respectable president. I'd like to first mention that this has been the priority for health care in the budget of the last two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u22	It was 3 billion last time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u23	This has been prioritised for health care in the past two years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u24	3.5 billion in...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u25	A respectable president. Can we have time to give up our talk? [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. The senator wants an answer, and he will give a speaker an opportunity to answer. This is getting very annoying. If an answer is required, peace should be given in response. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u26	V.E.G. President. A majority of the Generals passed a law on 17 different professional classes Saturday. The majority said they had to stop strike operations in order to ensure the safety of patients. The statement of the law is self-diving. The budget, as well as the government, indicated that the legislation could cause irreversible health damage to Iceland's health services. News is now coming from the resignations. A severe lack of nurses, radiologists, midwives, and biologists is a real threat to safety. The sad consequences of Saturday's fights include designers, business struggles, and recent employment problems. It takes decisive declarations and real measures to prevent the spread of health care services in Iceland from occurring permanently, the health services that vastly more of the population wants to be in top priority. So I ask the highest. A health minister what he has to say to the women who are now giving up health care jobs, to women whose work arrangements are necessary, so that health care can ensure patient safety and continue to offer excellent health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u27	A respectable president. I mentioned before in answer to a question from what? paritaprevir That institutions had not already been given an overview of the scope of what lay ahead of them was the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir. The director of the Land Hospital has put it this way, saying that he has heard more and less of the information in the media, and there they go. However, it is quite ready for them to be and will come out. About where, how, and in what amount this appears, I have no information and no place to evaluate today. In my conversations with the director of health institutions, however, I have requested such things. If that dark image is drawn up, it will be realized, and everything will work out just as well. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir described the health system as falling apart. However, I have more faith in health - care directors than I have in the past. They have faced a reality similar to that experienced by us. I don't believe in anything else but that we're going to do it again. I don't have the hangman exactly what to do at this point. The minister of finance described earlier as opposed to what the State had offered. There were other factors besides direct changes in remuneration. Even so, during the last meeting, the gap between the negotiation committees increased rather than the fact that they intertwined despite the presence of other agents in the spades but the direct rise in centenarians. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u28	V.E.G. President. I wanted the government of Iceland to speak with greater respect for the professions on which the law was being passed. I can agree with that with the highest. Minister that I have great confidence in the management of health institutions in Iceland, but their ability to cope with the problem is limited. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has said here that we have said that we should negotiate and agree with all the demands of the employees. We've been saying there's a deal to be negotiated. We have never taken a stand on how these contracts should look exactly. We have just said that there must be a conclusion that the matter is so serious. Don't worry about it. Minister that a judicial hearing is set forth with exactly the same formula as the government's offer was at 24 contracts and was always rejected? [[The president calls.]] Does he believe that these classes will accept such conclusions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u29	A respectable president. I don't agree with the claim that came out of the question. A senator that the state has made no changes in his proposals to the contract board at 24 negotiations. It is a long way from being acceptable to such a saying, for it is wrong; that is not the basis for it. I know that the state was moving normally, and it was not in any of the formal talks, as it seems here to indicate. On the contrary, as described here, the last bid from the state was high in 20% remuneration plus other factors to support the economy. It takes two to negotiate. Both sides in this position have their boundaries. Unfortunately, the time in my mind was the long swelling. It's a real challenge, but I'm hoping that this will be a move for both parties and that we will take advantage of the time ahead of July 1 to try to land a contract necessary for this dispute. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u30	Mr. President. No. No. No. No. 863, which I made up for this matter, has been called again. It is a consistent bill that the Independence Party has provided in more parts three times and never has finished, so I was going to give them the opportunity to finish it this time. It's such a privacy affair. I just didn't see the strong information court that came later, a great call from the Pirates that the information rights, which are one of the basics of Pirata, such as privacy, would be strong. We had a discussion about this, but it hasn't been figured out, and Pirata's basic policy doesn't allow me to be the freckler. [[Up front.]] I have to withdraw the motion until the Piratars are finished with that matter, i.e. whether this is weighted; privacy of privacy or information rights.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u31	A respectable president. We appreciate it. A senator for retracting his reimbursement. At the same time, it is decided that the majority of the two parties should be determined to compromise the provision of documents of business within a complex that the Committee itself had decided to place on the major companies in the country between 1 and 2. We object that the committees are coming to this country, for it is important that these points be well documented to avoid tax collections. Since then, we are glad to see that the major object's plans to fall away from the pension fund that have a high energy burden are reduced. We said at the end of the last year that there was a very thought - provoking purpose, and we actually said that they were so thoughtless and based on so much lack of experience that they would never be realized but that the more part would come here in June and undo their own decisions. It is now coming to the day, and we will support it firmly, and we will also rejoice if the government tried to reverse more of his bad decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u32	A respectable president. Of course, in the bright future, we support the government's efforts to reduce the contribution made to the equation the disability burden of the pension fund and we support it. However, I think only differently from what happened. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hjörvar and my colleagues in the memory of the economic and business committee on the rights of the paperwork. I'm not convinced that there needs to be a paperwork on business between related legislation when all members are home to the country. Documentary obligations are important when people live in many countries or at least two based on what is required for tax collections, but if they are in the same region, I don't feel that there is a need for documents. That's why I'm considered the greater part of this, but I'm on notice because some changes involve system changes in the value tax system I didn't support for the last year. [[The president calls.]] So I'm sitting by it, but there's a lot of stuff about customs numbers on salted swimmers, colloidal lacquer and things I don't really think about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u33	A respectable president. We vote on 356. Paint, bill to legalize the law on income taxes, public pay fees, tax payment laws on capital gains, fiscal taxes laws, customs laws, payoffs of road equipment, fuel, etc. and budgets, with subsequent changes, harmony, and simplicity. There's the bill after 2nd. and proposals from a greater part of the Economic and Business Directoring Committee on National Relations (ECCs) requiring that citizens who are strictly business partners who are linked or who are in agreement with other national organisations. In order to be correct, this paperwork was imposed by law No. 142/2013. [[The president calls.]] There was really no discussion between the 1st and the 2nd. Rather, they were briefly discussed on the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u34	Mr. President. I also rejoice when there is trouble. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has retraced the adjustment of his proposal, and I hope that Pirata's umbilization will eventually lead to the conclusion that the information and maintenance value of publishing tax, to display pressure, has greater significance than other viewpoints. As for the paperwork, we're the reason. paritaprevir The Árni Árnason did not agree with the outcome of that matter, and he gave this to a special - committee party. We were willing to clear the budget, but we have not had convincing reasons to go so far as to submerge it entirely, although there were only a few of the largest companies and corporations in the country that could not seem to be a great number of millions of dollars a year to document their own business. We will vote against the previous number of the required changes on the deck. 1040. Finally, of course, like the rest of the country, I rejoice that the government is finally fired for flight with its plans to reduce the energy burden of pensions and to do it exactly as I foretold in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u35	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for a bill to correct the conversion of extraction laws, with subsequent changes. This is the bill common to the Environment and Transport Committee. In 1st. says 1. Section 16. The word of the law goes like this: The minister appoints seven men in charge of the four - year Work Fund. The secretary appoints the director and his assistant without a form of appointment, while six vice presidents and equal numbers shall be appointed to the appointment of the following members: one according to the appointment of the Industrial Association, one according to the appointment of the SWHI ◯A Association of Business and Service, one according to the motion of professional society, one according to the appointment of a seafaring firm and two according to the appointment of the Union of Icelandic rurals. A vice president appointed by the Minister after the motion of the administration shall come from among the rulers. Two. says that this law already comes into effect. A change in waste management laws adopted at the General Assembly of May 16 last year was made in the composition of the Ecosystem Fund. Instead of the joint union of fish industry and the National Association of Iceland, a representative of the Ecosystem Fund, there was one representative with which these two societies were together, approved by the European Union as their share in the Commission and therefore had two. The switch was made in the conduct of the Committee to propose to the European Union's member, who wished to have two members in the board. I'll come in a little better after what happened. Following the adjustment of the law, the Commission has investigated the matter and, in view of reviewing that there is a right increase in the number of executives in Exploitation Fund by one such means that the European Commission is also represented in the management board. It is then suggested that the law dictates the vote of the Chairman, who makes the outcome go away, for this bill will be unnecessary in the law, since it has become a point man of a seven commission. The aim of the law is to provide economic conditions for recycling and recycling of waste in order to reduce the amount of waste required for final disposal and to ensure appropriate disposal of wastes. For this purpose, the export fee is laid on goods, whether brought into the country or produced on the land. Regarding the purpose of the processing fee, it says that cost should be paid under the treatment - graded waste at the apheresis station, and its transport from the collection station to reception stations or reassigning stations, as the product's extraction fees have been paid. This will include waste disposal and disposal, as appropriate. At the same time, the fee should be paid for the cost of disposal of the waste mixed with products that have been paid for. The cost of processing should be met by the payment and the operation of the Fragile Fund. This suggests that the processing fee, both its currency and its provision, is based on the so-called manufacturer responsibility, i.e. The obligation of the producers and immigrants to ensure a provision for the goods that the law takes into account. The Agency's responsibility is extended to the prolongation of the pollution prevention rule, which includes the improvement of environmental contamination. The manufacturer's responsibility includes that the manufacturer's product is responsible for the community costs, in part or in all ways, that result from the handling of the product in the presence of waste. The cost becomes part of the total price of the product, so that the consumer pays it, not the public taxpayer, as when the cost of waste treatment is applied by the public, i.e. The rurals. OECD defines the manufacturer's responsibility as a environmental policy, with the manufacturer's responsibilities extended to the end of the product's life span, i.e. After the consumer has decided to dispose of it. On the other hand, the manufacturer's responsibilities are defined by the transfer of responsibility in part or entirely to the manufacturer and from rural areas and by measures that encourage producers to take into account environmental considerations for the manufacture or services of the Agency. Different exports are available for the manufacturer's responsibility and vary in length. Manufacturers can be legalized, as well as the provision of measures to protect the environment from contamination caused by the use of drinking products. Manufacturers may also be subject to a contract between the government and the manufacturer, such as the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania. in the legislation on the processing fees allowed to make a contract with the job life for measures to ensure waste disposal due to artificial fishing instruments. Finally, the manufacturer's responsibility may be the initiative of the manufacturer or their organization. In the bill to legalize the processing fee, which became the law of No. 162/2002, according to the order of Ecoefficiency Fund's command, it was suggested that the government be organized for four years, and that the representatives of the industry's Association, the Association of Business and Service, the Union of Iceland, and one joint representative of a fishing network, five members of the board. It was then suggested that the government be appointed to its representatives as the highest interest because the network on which the bill is built will have as practical solutions as possible. Then it was noted that the representatives of the industry have more parts in the board, that the person who makes up waste money for recycling, recycling, or disposal is suggested by the bill. In that case, rural areas would also be responsible for the collection of household waste and the implementation of welcome and collection stations for municipal waste. As a result of legal explanations with the fail-employment laws, the legislation may therefore be an agreement between industry and commercial work life on waste disposal, and it is based on trust between these partners and the government. With law No. 63/2014, U.S. government and rural representatives received greater force within the management of Exploitation Fund, and it is well said that this is not in harmony with the purpose of the law, as I said before. It should be possible for rural communities to have a substantial financial interest in the payment of a post-final budget, in which rural areas and their enterprises are members to which about half of the recycling costs are paid. In addition, one result of changes in the management of the Waste and Electrical Waste Fund is that now the funds meet the requirements for the manufacturer's responsibility under the European Directive for electronic waste and can take over the manufacturer's responsibility. With reference to the above reasoning, and in view of the fact that the work of Exploitation Fund is based on the manufacturer's responsibility, it is suggested in the bill that one member, a representative of the European Commission of the European Union, will be added to the Elite Fund's management so that representatives of the Agency's Association have more part in the government than the European Union will still appoint two representatives. It is suggested in the bill to conclude the 1st. Section 16. a law on extract costs fall away, saying that if a vote has to be paid, the vote of the chairman will fall down as well. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be made legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u36	Mr. President. I want to thank you. This bill was highly handled by a senator. However, I must say that I am a little disgruntled by this change. I don't think it's very detailed in a report, as it were. A senator hardly turned aside. As far as I know, almost none of the fish wastes are used for disposal or in some way fall into the care of the rural community. Rather, almost all fish waste is due to some kind of treatment that can be said to be recycled or processed. So I can't quite see the strong evidence that it is important to add a lot of those in the management of Exploitation Fund just to meet local requirements. The government had previously been changed, the members of the rural community naturally received two, and it would be no wonder if there were three and nothing wrong, I believe that the government and rural society had more share in this. I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Is it the opinion of the Committee that because the employment team feels that they should be given more of a part to run off the council and to increase in the government? I think it's a very strange deal, so that's all I'm gonna say. By allowing you to ask, "What are the companies' organizations doing on the fishing road paying a lot of money for this? " I don't think that's very much. I can forgive you for what you've done. A senator not to have an answer to that question, but I would have felt that those who are involved in this bill should have made it happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u37	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the answer, and he shall do my best to explain it further. The reason why this bill is is that after U.S. rural society's reviews, we changed to the Commission of Exploitation Fund. There were five previously in the management of Exploitation Fund. In a memo sent by the European Commission to us by the European Commission, they explain to us what we follow at a meeting that what is now the European Community in the fishing field, which was formerly LEU and SF, has come into play from the rules of Exploitation Fund at that time, i.e. Those who are now SFS made up of the rules of Exploitation Fund, the manufacturer's responsibility, and other matters I discussed here earlier. After this law was accepted, we received indications that what seemed to the committee was wrong. The committee is all behind this, and we're fixing it, not that we're taking number two from the European Commission, but that we're adding, now it's seven men's government. I might get to go over it in the second answer to why it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u38	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator who was able to give me a fairly clear answer to a question, perhaps unexpectedly coming to him. I can understand why. A senator did not prepare to get into the answers and discussions about this excellent bill when such a program exists so that all those who support the bill agree. But now the person here came to an early Calculus fund, and an old environmental minister can afford to have opinions about this. For example, I believe that the Department of Exploitation is such an important tool in our system that there is nothing to be gained from deciding that their share is not rich enough in the management of the Exploitation Fund and that it is a special request, and then the general Assembly of Iceland will change the law to increase and establish those who wish it. On the other hand, I take no note of any explanation. A member of the Parliament that it was found that the predecessors of the European Union are in the fishing business, i.e. LEVI and the Association of Fish Work stations, that they were not right behind them and that they made up from the manufacturer's responsibility. But I feel that it needs to be presented in the committee's opinion. I can't see it, and I didn't hear it until I had to follow through here. Senator. Then I ask why too. A senator, if he can answer me: In what way does the trust fund meet the requirements of the manufacturer's responsibility under the European Directive? This fine report is not clear. I would've wanted to know what it's like. To tell you the truth, it's a bit of a cover-up here, and it's just some peculiar request from out of town. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u39	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for letting me explain this a little bit more. I'll admit that there's probably a senator who asks me before there's more expert on these matters than I do, because he came to introduce these rules. We had a meeting with our rural communities, and I've been in contact with both industry and rural society, and there's really no disagreement about where the manufacturer's responsibility lies. The manufacturer's responsibility is such that the person who makes the product or, as is more often in our case in Iceland, the person who brings it in is responsible to give a certain amount of money to the Workout Fund. The directive directly assumes that in 2002, when introduced to this country, employment will be controlled by this fund. As a result, the changes we made last year are against the objectives of the directive. Legally, I can't explain much better why, but it was all agreed that the so-called manufacturer responsible for extending the pollution policy should be in the hands of the job.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u40	Mr. President. I can't help but compliment myself. A senator who had a history for this committee party for how well he responded to a question that in its nature was quite complex. As I understood the answer to that question. This was the nature of a candidate so that at the time the European Commission on this basis was introduced here in 2002, it would have been in the opinion of those who interpreted the directive before it was introduced into Icelandic law that the manufacturers and the industry would have more part in the Eligration Fund. Then, in the stream of time, there have been some, and since I considered the producers themselves connected with the fishing roads, they would have concluded that they had not been sold under the European directive. Of course, it can be explained why they did so because they thereby threw aside the obligation that the directive requires them to carry the cost of waste disposal and the arrangements. This was thought to be the case with another person who is involved in the type of waste being introduced, i.e. Companys, I'd give you two agents. When this was agreed with an environmental and transport committee, everyone agreed. Nobody felt that this was not a European decree. The reason, I think, was extremely simple. If you look at data, it turns out that in the past ten years, there has been a significant increase in the proportion of water exports to be disposed of, waste, burn, or other factors because, among other things, laws given at the high Council, especially by laws adopted by the last government in 2011, it is a far greater obligation for those in the sea to work as closely as possible. This was the reason why there was no problem with the power market within the Ecosystem Fund management regime because simply the development of the time and development of the recycling industry had led to the fact that, in the past, the major share of the market management of the manufacturers was the most responsible for processing and disposal procedures in the community. Of course, the major change that led to this was, of course, that a few years ago, there was still another package disposal directive, so called a package directive, which had an enormously high and increased commitment to the community. This, I believe, was the reason that at the time of the first change in government, there was nothing wrong with that. It was simply the situation about processing, recycling, and processing costs that it was thought that the rural and the state held a larger part of the responsibility for the process than before, and therefore it would not be wrong for them to have also more part, and the government was assigned in a way that would not have more part of their life. I think it's a lot of coz. The Environment and Transport Committee to make this change just like that. Of course, I don't doubt that there may have been some kind of wrong information. But I can't agree with that. A senator put it here earlier, that it had been approved under a false front. I don't think it was. Still, I believe that when an organization, in fact, two marine organizations, feels that they are prepared for responsibilities that have resulted in cost but are now willing to make changes, it is sufficient to send letters to the committee of the Council. So, Mr. President, I would like to make every effort to get my support on this. In 1994, when we tried to establish laws on the duty of a fishing road and construction companies to bring all the fish in the country, it became a real challenge. I remember, though, that the law was made by a government that I participated in. In 1996, in fact, after my release from that government, they were removed from the law. For one thing, because the local community was so strongly pressured to place the waste that a business in the fishing field simply found it difficult to carry the cost of it. [Service motorcycles travel from the street.] - I hear you, chief. Mr President, the public is out here celebrating this fine speech that makes me barely hear my own words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u41	The president wants to state that he feels that a bell sound in these circumstances would not be enough to silence those motorcycles.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u42	Once again, I agree with the highest. The president believes that his assessment of his ability to intervene in the situation is correct. Then will I attempt to continue my speech. What I was saying, Mr. President, was that by 2011 men were in the process of collecting about 110 of you. tons of fish waste went to treat and more parts of it, or 97.6%, went to recycling. That's where I've been jumping into the future for almost 20 years. But during this period, what had happened was due to the first European initiatives that we had to implement in our rights, secondly, because of the growing public consciousness of using everything that falls out of the sea, and third, because our rural communities were putting a lot of pressure on it, especially in the scattered coastal areas, that a company on the sea bus would do better with the waste that came into the country. This led to 2011, i.e. 15 years after the law I mentioned here that had been approved by the time I was a environmental minister, the situation has been changed, so 97.6% of all the fish waste that goes into recycling. He's got fishery, he's got fur food, he's got a kitos production made of shrimp shell. I'll review it to the fine senator I am fond of who spoke here about its implications, now that they don't have to look in the European Union, no, it was exactly the environmental minister who was mentioned to date in the Regulation that company or rural society had the authority to demand money for the expense they had of throwing away the shrimp shell. All of this led to the fact that by 2011 we were replaced by something that is literally not recycled in some way. Of course, although the proportion of fish waste to be treated has become high, it does not solve all future issues because all fish wastes are still significantly lacking and properly treated. Then I will review, as I know, that the Environment and Transport Committee has undoubtedly taken a very good look at its careful coverage, that of September 1, 2011, the Regulation's work went into effect. I know it's the highest. A president who sits behind me and is a former ocean leader, who had such a fine job, no doubt observed. He knows that this is Regulation No. 180/2011. It is about how the materials are required to bring all the waste from fishing to a far greater extent than before. This is a directive that many of us fought for years on the use of resources and extra products. And this fine directive in 2011 has further contributed to improved efficiency, as well as new possibilities have been opened up in the use and recycling of fish waste. But this may be possible, and there may be weights on the scales of the cause I am protesting here, but there may be a relative increase in waste disposal. Pincum saliens in this case is that I can't see better than the fact that these companies are reinvigorated in the management of Exploitation Fund and the Congress is up to my hands and feet to change the composition of the government by far much less today than it was before, unless it does. A senator corrected me, or any other person who knows better, because it seems to me that what the manufacturer's responsibility embraces, the cost of the nonrenewable fish waste is always shrinking. Then I ask: Are there any special provisions that will represent a group of wastes that will be increasingly reduced in the management of state and rural society in terms of the situation and arrangements, that they will suddenly receive a special agent and that the government needs to increase? What does the director of the VG say on that matter? Or an ex-fiancé. Seafood and agricultural ministers? Not that I'm going to demand anyone to answer this question. If we were reasonable and should try to evaluate the percentage vision, with the permission of the President, on the basis of the proportion of underlying waste groups, it seems to me that the government would have to increase a lot in number so that the rural communities could get a percentage of that type of waste. I've been one of those who've always kept watch over the processing fees, kept a guard on recycling, and in previous years have been trying to reduce the charges on the various categories, trying to change this, because at the outset the companies were not only interested in participating in this. Happily, the development has been so true here at the General Assembly that people who have had a vision to go the other way have taken the other way. I've been in that category. I recall the many days of conflict and strife here in this council hall, when there was a time when there was a workout fee on the pitchfork, on fishing instruments, on bicycles. Lord faithful, today this is the foundation of small enterprises that have originated and created valuables. So I'm under obligation. I was one of the people who participated in the process, and I plan to keep this watch. I don't think that these are such important links in this extraction chain that I don't think we can do this carelessly, and people can only change the government because they want it in town. If someone disagrees with me, I would like to have the reasons, for example, why. þm. Páll J. Paulson, who I know has opinions on this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u43	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to legalize the changing of various laws because of a agreement between state and rural society on the development of music studies. The bill is proposed by an General Information and Education Committee on the Request of Education and Culture and the Union of Iceland. The above parties were consulted, as well as the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of the Home Department for the County Department, Reykjavík, and the Association of Music Schools in Reykjavík. It is the opinion of all those who have been called by the Committee to meet in the preparation of this case that this bill is essential to legal action by the General Assembly. This is an extension of the laws on changing the law because of this diverse agreement between state and rural society over the development of music study, but this is not the first suggestion that this agreement is legalized at the General Assembly. In this case, a new addition to this subject has not yet been reached, but, for example, has not yet been reached. In an Annex from 2014, the time of the original contracts was extended to 31 December 2014. Prior to 2015, the state's budget has made a monthly contribution to the branch funds of rural society to cover up the educational expenses of the agreement. Initially, the budget was 480 million, but now it is 520 million. It lacks the legal authority to reduce the share of its members from an equation fund. This source has been published for the years, so the funding of the projects adopted by rural society has been lacking on the basis of this agreement. The arrangement we discuss here is comparable to what we have done before, but that change is made up of 30 million. K. The government's contribution to the stock market is canceled, and the corresponding sum is instead directly involved in this work, i.e. to help solve emergency music school problems. That's what this is all about. The Commission feels that it is unavoidable to submit this bill to ensure that the activities of this subject were carried out, and the rural communities took a temporary responsibility to become a reality. The decision has not yet been made in the current discussion and is still between the state and rural society for future relief on these issues, i.e. to renew this agreement. There is no budget for 2015 to meet the cost of rural society, but I claim that the state has taken over to pay 520 million dollars. K. This is a temporary intervention by the Lawgiver in a very serious position described for us on the committee. There's been a lot of uncertainty within school, there's only so much security because we're here all the time talking about it one year at a time. It is hoped that the discussion between the two parties will be completed as soon as possible so that long as this is done, you can look forward to it. We specifically discussed this new proposal regarding a reserve of housing. It is a proposal for the European Union to agree with the Ministry of Health that this is done in this way, i.e. Thirty million. K. spared to solve this emergency rather than go to the reserve. The relationship has expressed the view that this work is more urgent than maintaining payment for the reserve. This may have been the point we most discussed at the Committee before we decided to present this bill here. I'd like to reiterate to the Commission's position that we are here to solve the emergency problems of the music schools at the request of the Ministry and the Federal Union. This, of course, is a law that we hope we do not have to return to next year. Again and again, I reiterate the committee's encouragement to those people who are trying to achieve contracts to try to get together so that they can get a complete solution for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u44	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The head of the General and Education Committee for their history for the case. This is no doubt an urgent matter, but she mentioned that this was a time to solve the emergency problems of the music schools. I wanted to start by introducing the senator to see if this will solve the emergency problems they face or if there are still some schools left in trouble that will not be controlled or broke down despite these measures. I would also like to ask, as soon as the committee describes a peaceful wish that this need not be taken back with an emergency item such as this after a year or so: Has anything material happened on the part of the rural society or the Minister who guarantees it? If not, would it not be wiser to make this longer, since the council needs to be divided on a different level? To do this temporarily seems to me that since the last few years, there was no financial rights, and I think everyone could put on the track that the music schools are about to have a business, and there's no budget for next year, let alone already that year, and no documents from year to year, it must be pretty hard to plan any business from now on. It's unsuspectable equipment that my knowledge of government's income and the balance fund is to bring it here in a short time and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u45	V.E.G. President. This is not a solution to the problem. This is merely the intervention of the legislature to try to solve the most urgent problem, which is that our rural communities do not have a legal authority to finance their part of the agreement. This was shown in my case and is shown in the report that the budget was 480 million. K. which the state proposed is now 520 billion. K., this is about legal rights to reduce the share of the community from their contributions from an equation fund. Of course, none of us in the Committee feel that this is a very interesting business to make, yet it is vital that we do not escape. It can be said that this is not the way the committee should settle matters, and it should only be decided by an agreement, but it simply does not work. It was stated in the panel's work that some form of agreement has come to the fore. It is far too early, however, to go out in what way it might be. We hope that there will be an agreement, and we'll express a lot of anxiety that has not yet been brought together and encouraged the parties to resolve this situation now and then try to make the knots so that all of the rural communities will understand the agreement that will be left in the same way. The problem now is that the agreement made at the time cannot be interpreted in the same way in the city of Reykjavík as in other rural areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u46	A respectable president. It is good to hear from the chairman of the Committee that the proposals for solving this problem have been made because it is correct, of course, for the music schools in the country. This is, in effect, just the most urgent problem in some schools and the reason to stress that the committee and the head of the committee have done nothing but try to solve some of the solutions in this subject and not cause the situation. But there is good reason to criticize, nevertheless, the educational authorities for the position that exists. I doubt that the right to resolve matters temporarily with temporary sources is, of course, because it means that we are constantly in the process of presenting such issues in spite of our false wishes that educational authorities will have something to do with the status of the music schools in the country. Sadly, many of them are in enormous financial trouble, and there is a great deal of debate over academic ideals about reorganization of school, and it is wish to try at least to make solutions that allow them to be longer than one year at the same time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u47	V.E.G. President. Me and what. A senator agrees that this situation would be very good if long - term relief occurred. Thus, the state has already made its contribution, but it lacks permission for the rural communities to ensure the protest that the rural communities would contribute. This case is an attempt to clear it up. Of course, this is not a model, as we have seen. So we wondered what would happen if this case were not going to go through, would not be put on the side of the committee, what then? It has simply been clear that the language of the school of music in Reykjavík is such that we would face a serious situation and perhaps a payoff at some schools. This case is intended to ensure that it will not be done. Then there is another story whether Reykjavíkurburg and the rural areas in the capital area had ever let it go all that way. That question I don't want to know, and that's why we'd rather bring this case to the General and Education Committee in order to try to contribute to it in order to never have to be tested.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u48	President. First, I want to describe an understanding of the situation. A global and educational committee presenting a case, which, of course, is a preliminary case, as shown in the current case. paritaprevir My Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir, i.e. It is being saved for an angle, which, of course, should not be the situation of this issue. I'm speaking here because I think it's my responsibility, from the moment I arrived on this matter first on behalf of Reykjavík, New York, as a representative of the National Educational Council of Reykjavík, when your original bonds were placed on so-called, i.e. Reykjavíkurburg stopped taking students out of the country into her music school without special payment. This is because the system that has been in Reykjavík is different from the practice in other areas in rural society, where schools are simply fired by rural society. Here in the capital, many schools are employed independently, and they fight for money, so it has not been easy for Reykjavík to hold on to the organization of music. But at the same time, I have found it important to keep it in place, as if, of course, in many parts of the country, to do something quite good. It comes to us in the unique form of music, a 300 thousand people with music on a global scale, whether known as classical music, jazz music, or pop music. It's not for nothing. It's not coming out of nothing. It comes out of the schools, where there's a perfectly good job. But the situation at Reykjavíkurburg, early in this century, was, in fact, that it was willing to try to put an ever - increasing organization into the business of this school. The save bonds to be thought-in, and I told them at the time because then I came back to this case again as minister of education and culture, and before the bonds were cut off together because the state suggested extra money, new money into music school, because as everyone here knows, the music schools are the projects of the local community, the music study is being done by the local community by the former shifts, but it was my opinion as a minister, and I know that I am at my side of the belief, that it was really unfavourable that the State would not be coming in the advanced stages of this paper, in contrast to form the general school system where a high school society where a high school is running but taking care of basics and schools. It was thus a reflection of the willingness to place this money in music studies and also because music schools were not part of the crisis with certain rural communities around the country, so the state wanted to bring the money into schools to promote music studies. On the other hand, it occurred on two days that this case needs a review, i.e. The agreement itself, and that the student information of the local and music schools was not sufficient for the agreement made at the time, based on the information then available. The students proved to be more than they were supposed to, so it was clear that the foundation was also needed to be revised. This has been done because, as noted in a case, the government has put in additional financial resources. The head of the General and Education Committee, 480 million now 520 million. However, it was also noted that the rural communities did not interpret this agreement in the same way. This was mainly the city of Reykjavík, which believed that this made the State responsible for the advanced stage in music, which was not intended at all to support the agreement but was still a legal community assignment. This has resulted in the status of the music school, especially in Reykjavík, which has been very difficult. She's been very heavy. Of course, I would like to have the responsibility that may be on my hands in this matter, but in the agreement originally concluded, the bill for law would be submitted to the revised music program to support this agreement. However, it was not so far as to say that the state should take over the responsibility of the afterlife, as if it were a very complex project, that we would establish this agreement in some way in the law. That bill lay before the spring of 2013 and was then presented publicly. There were all stakeholders; rural communities, schools, and the state as well as the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Economics. Men were not agreeing, however, on how the bill should look exactly, although I had decided to introduce the subject in those days, but I felt very important that this case would work out and mention as evidence that this bill was under way much longer than I was a minister, it was established on the Constitution of the minister who before me, namely, my office. These cases have been examined for a long time, really too long. This case has also been on the root file at the present level. Minister, but what I think about it is that now it looks like there's some tinge around where to go. I've asked you a question to the highest level. Minister and still waiting for the answer to that inquiry, for, of course, this has not been a question period for a long time, such as the Supreme Court. President's known. But it seems like the plan -- now I'll say it was because I haven't got any answers from the Minister on it -- to abandon the ideas that had been generally agreed on in the bill presented in the spring of 2013, but the lack of the draft price could be reached, and to go other ways. Then I quote the news that we members of the Parliament have had in mind the intention of leaving the agreement that is actually extending for a year and giving them money to a combined music school in Reykjavík. I'll support this bill, I'll take it out, but I think it's very important that we do what. Congress officials are quickly getting some information on the very best view of the future. A minister of the matter, for there is a considerable change in what has been discussed for years about the arrangements of music study if it is intended that the State support one music school at an advanced level in music. I ask, then, What will be the future of music in many parts of the country? We know that there are careers in music schools in many parts of the country, and we read news last day from the Icelanders, where people are concerned about this, that is a very well - known musical place with musical holidays and a powerful music school that has advanced. Of course, this is true of many rural areas around the country. Government plans or the highest. Ministers to direct these funds to one of FIH's combined music schools and the music school in Reykjavík, in the capital area, and not to support the upcoming stages across the country? Then we have come quite far from the point of view that employed a measure of initial progress, which was to advance the country extension and lift the living bonds that had prevented music students from studying for far too long, unfortunately, that was one of the main objectives of the agreement in their time. This is what I think we need to get a calm discussion about. I'm not going to say anything right now, not until I find out what the plans are. On the other hand, I present concerns with the intention of directing the entire government's contribution to music study here to the capital area. I'm concerned about how this will affect our national music program, since our rural society has been very handsome on the back of the study, and it takes only minimal knowledge and knowledge of Icelandic music life to know that it is as much of a musical experience from abroad as it is from the capital area. Or rather, the good people who uphold the honour of Icelandic music come from all over the country. We need to keep that in mind. It may be the highest. A minister can give some good answers to all of this. As I'm saying, I hope there's a time for queries to be as soon as possible with prepared inquiries, so that is likely to be the answer to this. The reason I brought it up here is because, while I support this case, I don't want to see it again. I'd rather have a vision of the future, no later than in the fall. We can thus have differing views on the future. My personal opinion is, so I say at the end of my talk, that the state is responsible for higher education in arts as well as for other articles. Just as the State has accepted responsibility for the continuation of the book - based subjects of high school throughout the country, so the State has a responsibility. It has long been my policy of moving left greens, that it is natural that this group of unions will also be revised in art studies. This agreement was a clear recognition of that policy, i.e. The State declared itself responsible to some extent for the future of music education in the country; however, it was not so far in the bill, and there was a compromise between views that the State accepts the responsibility. It was primarily the practical evidence that came into it. In view of the fact that higher education was so spread throughout the country, it was all within the same institutions that it was seen as a certain practical argument against the directly carrying of the State's responsibility in the afterlife. So it was suggested at one time that an arrangement where government support would be legalized would be written into music law, even though the responsibility was thus still being seen by a community. I make it clear that they have, of course, accepted that responsibility very well over the years. We see this in our music life. I'm worried about this. Now I remember when this agreement was signed, I don't remember exactly when, but it was about the time that our musical house was opened. Because in itself I have never been a special candidate for cultural building, even though it was in my interest to finish that house, my lot became fun in contrast with what I had planned for them, it was important for me to show it also in the work, to the government, that the input was what really mattered rather than just the downing, that it mattered that there was a flourishing activity and that it would be done to develop a music study in this way. Mr. President. I did not intend to extend the discussion but, rather, review this background, for it is important that we keep it in mind when discussing this matter. I support this bill, but I hope at the same time that they will not become more of them, that we will be able to get a vision of the future in our music study because it is the foundation for all the rest, that is the foundation for the music that we can all be very proud of, whether in our everyday life or during the holidays, the music program is the foundation. That is why I think there is a lot of work to be done to make us feel at peace with someone about how we're going to have that future arrangement, and we're obviously going to have to lie down until later so that we don't have such preliminary issues on the program too often.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u49	Mr. President. Surely, I could not come here in a talk chair that is different from complimenting myself. A senator for the Christian tolerance it shows the highest. Minister by calling this a renovation, as they were. In fact, members of the council have also made comments that have addressed the above. Don't you think it's more correct to call it a shit-red? I think so. It's been a long time since I've seen a Senate case with these tools, especially when the prehistoric story is in mind, but I'm not going to let that happen at any point. But this too is true of tolerance. A senator that now that we are about to agree to this resolution, it is clear to the highest degree. A minister has set about a completely different route by a future organization, a shifting of his music program, and the exchange between rural society and the government. We haven't seen much of it yet. Recently, however, there are probably three or four weeks since this matter began to be reported. Because of what? A senator so accurately traced the history of the matter, I'm just going to carry down to the place where she said, after describing that the case had been in operation with her and before, that she had come to the conclusion and presented a certain case on the top of the Senate Constitution. Minister, but then it happens that we start to hear of the presumption that there's something quite different. A minister has in mind to find money to answer the need now. Now, I'm not going to give myself anything in advance in that kind of way. Senator. It may well be that the way is at its height. Minister is wondering is just fine, I don't know, but I'm so half-mighted with her. My question is, Is it acceptable for the council to handle this matter without even the highest level? The minister's failure to accept this, and after discussions at the council, which way he intends to go? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. It's an answer from a senator. Of course, he owes the best. Ministers to us to appreciate their vision of the future, especially in view of the fact that it appears to be something we have not, based on the agreement previously introduced and previously introduced to stakeholders. So on May 21, I proposed an oral inquiry to the highest degree. Minister where I ask him about a vision in order to study music and when he intends to present a bill here to legalize music education. Now I say that my tolerance, as it were. A senator may think the most of all, since we have not been allowed to own this place at the highest level. Minister, we have our reports primarily from the media that tell us that this may be a project. But what brings my attention to that news is also the fact that it has been presented, and I will ask the highest. A minister about when I get my chance to, that the interests of the interests were not actually called in a formal way to the new arrangement as high as possible. Minister's checking, i.e. that the music schools were not called in for formal consultation but were being employed in a very narrow group. It raises questions about this, since the matter is complicated and we need to make peace with the arrangement, how it works. A minister intends to get exactly settled on this arrangement. We've seen protests from formalists, music schools, music students, teachers, and plans that they also seem to have just wondered about in the media. As I say, my tolerance may be primarily due to my wanting the opportunity to get this right here at the council and to know exactly what is happening. But, of course, I make serious comments on the continuation of this matter without having all the parties behind them that are relevant and, as I mentioned earlier, possibly with very important national interests at risk. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u51	Mr. President. I'm not gonna give myself anything about the real plans of the world. Secretary of education is. He has been very good at speaking and saying so. He has not wanted to discuss it, such as with his rural society. He hasn't wanted to talk to the General, and I'm sorry. I've read the reviews of people who take a note, such as the Víkingur Heiðar Ólafsson of the pianist, who draw his conclusions from the minister's words and think it may not necessarily be headed in such a bad direction. I don't know anything about that. I want to know where the Minister is going. That's what I'm talking about with tolerance. Because I feel that it is basically a measure of tolerance, even beyond what is acceptable, to intend to resolve this matter without knowing where it is at its highest level. The Minister of Education is taking it away. Now we are on the last half of the council, perhaps. Hv. A senator will wait for an answer to a verbal inquiry. What will happen to verbal requests when men finish their contracts for Congress? They're either vaporized or converted into written inquiries, so I'm afraid we can't be able to discuss this with the highest level. Secretary of education. I'd give it a what? At least a member of the body is considering this matter to be a special discussion because it is not a small matter. This is of utmost importance, not just for music life in the country, but for a considerable number of people who may have taken root outside the capital area. We have to think about that, too. Some of the highest. A minister has been said to be able to interpret as very contrary to national interests. I'm not going to do it at this point. Let the Minister enjoy the doubt, but it must be shown to the council before this matter is resolved, I think. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u52	Mr. President. In fact, I would feel normal to the highest. A minister would be here to form at 2nd. about the bill to answer these queries. The reason I told you earlier that I would support this case is because I know the status of the music school here in Reykjavík. I think it's going to be so bad that we have a lot of obligation to save it for a corner, so I'll use the word I used before. A senator called a piece of shit in his counter, but of course we have to get this vision clear. I didn't think it was unnatural at the very height. A minister would be anxious to come here and later to discuss this matter so as to tell us about that vision in the future if he cannot be expected to answer verbal inquiries here. In fact, I've had a place of words before. Minister of his future vision of music education and training at this council. In these discussions, there was no mention of the purposes we have been hearing about. But I think it's very important that it gets clarified here. I think it's best to get to the top. A minister only did so during a discussion on this matter that he would present what was going on so that we could have it confirmed here at the council. I fully understand that viewpoint, even though I have studied these matters considerably because of my previous approach to matters, it is very important to do so. Senators are informed as far as possible before accepting a case like this. I think I have enough reasons to do so from time to time to make up from the conversations I've had with the music school in Reykjavík, but I think a future minister's vision must lie on the table. That is also a natural requirement. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. Maybe a what? Her chairman here in the hall informed us whether the committee has received any such presentation from the highest level. Minister, for, of course, she has to lie on the table. I agree with what. That's what a senator does.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u53	Mr. President. I'm just gonna come into this thing that we in the General and Education Committee are doing, and maybe we're not very happy about having to have it developed in this way as we've been doing here. After much discussion and careful planning, we feel that it is better not to submit the bill. I agree with what happened. Jakobsdóttir That, of course, there is something that you hope you do not have to do again and that you really need to be resolved. She covered the story well and how it all works out. Hv. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Osseféðinsson spoke here about a piece of shit, and I think we're feeling a little bit like that, too, because the case comes very late to the Committee, and there's a limited time to take action and discuss it in detail. However, this must be done in order for the schools to be able to serve this year. There's a few things on the bill. In Comb 4. a job assigned to the local community in the contract was made, and there was a view, among other things, from the Social Affairs Department of the Summer House in Smokedal, that it might be desirable to treat it or to identify it in the equation, such as the schoolrooms on smoke. I think it would be a good idea to find that this contract would not have to be carried out without such a project. Rather, it would have a similar role. It also shows up in C- team 4. A project called the Home of Vista Saves. There are an estimated 63.3 million. In fact, the local community may not be particularly excited to receive such projects, feeling that it takes half as much, some 120 million. Only in view of these points, it is important that this contract be revised. Then, as noted in the history of the Chairman of the Commission, the 30 million who have a solution for an emergency school are facing the equation. They were a contribution to the government's reserve of housing, but it is canceled and replaced as a contribution to this category because the European Union considered the disaster to be greater there, the more important it would be to move there than to go into the reserve. But it caught my attention when the Department of Social Affairs came to us that these funds have actually been taken care of in the new housing resources. Of course, the same money will not be used twice, so somehow it needs to be skimmed. Part of this is in the budget, and we need to deal with it on a budget board in the fall, but a social security minister will have to figure it out if these funds have been spent on the premises. I may be a little more sensitive to the latest plans. The Minister and his plans. I think this morning an interview was made with a boy and his family from Isafjordur, who has been in piano school and if the minister's ideas become reality, then of course he must move like so many other students in the country. There are 190 students who engage in advanced music courses in the country, and it has been found that these ideas are alive and if they become reality, we can imagine that these communities are actually responsible for further studies in music outside of Reykjavík or the capital area. It's hardly apocalyptic, it's even equal to study, that's how I see it. V.E.G. A minister has observed that he believes that the plans that have taken place, the thought of uniting music schools and making public contributions will not change anything because there will be access to study, and it may be possible to move or negotiate with certain teachers in certain schools. I would have liked to see it happen, as the former minister of education previously did well with some contract that would be guaranteed and would not have to be subject to a deal with a school that would be a government scholarship in the capital area. It has not necessarily been shown that he would become the State's active force but that he would be as rich as possible, and that there might be more in the spirit of the highest power. Secretary of education. It is also shocking to interpret the city of Reykjavík regarding the contract in the country. I think it's very important that her will be brought forward, and there's a lot of concert directors, most of them all, I think, both of us members of Congress and others, the Ministry and Minister's letters on this matter. The secretary has said that because of that agreement, it should not really be replaced. That's why this case has entered the scene of the Committee that transports the bill. So the Minister obviously has other plans, and I don't think it's safe to interpret it in the way that has been presented, especially in the light of how the high school discussion all worked out. So I got a bad feeling about these ideas, I'll say it here. As for high school, I am now in trouble with wind, but I am not sure that it is solved, so I am deeply concerned that the result will be that it will be paid only in Reykjavík only by this means. The committee noted why the music schools did not have access to the committee appointed to review these cases as a result of a change in action between the state and the community, and I felt that this was a very peculiar argument. Such access must matter when it comes to such a big matter as this and actually turns to the fact that at some point representatives of the music school came to the committee, even though not all of her work. There's got to be some sort of cut off work, depending on a particular project, but as it's been, it's all hanging. And the projects listed in the bill are part of this agreement for the music schools. So I find it odd to think of hiding behind the fact that because there is a difference between the state and rural society, the music schools cannot be represented. I don't think that's a reasonable approach. But I don't need to discuss these matters thoroughly, like others, and present this bill as a representative of the General and Education Committee only because the representatives of those involved, i.e. The music schools, believe it is better than not, and they are written to try to save what is being saved. Of course, not all of our music schools are as bad in the capital area. At the end of the study, I would like to mention that one of the surprising events in the Committee is that the school's operating skills should be reviewed again. Not long ago, the assessment of school management was made, so I don't quite understand why it needs to be done again. It may be worth something, but it also takes a considerable amount of money that might be better spent directly in the business. Of course, this is part of the community. A respectable president. I agree with what's being said here that you're taking part in this embezzling process. You would have wanted the minister to have won this case rather than many other cases he'd been working in way too much backstage in my opinion, both in college, in the Institute of Education and in other matters, starting on the wrong end, and not allowing the committee to save himself for an angle as here is. But we do so, with urgency, and hope that soon the conclusion will come in these matters, and then I repeat that the country will be considered, not just the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I want to start by considering whether it is correctly understood that the arrangement here is temporary and if there is not a permanent solution or some of the overall solution to the music schools, which are now in much trouble at the highest level. Minister of Education, whether the council again needs to intervene in a year or two unchanged. I say that because I don't have much faith in the fact that a minister of education is solving the difficult situation that many of the music schools have in that the ideas he has played seem to be the least of them. I agree with the senator on the viewpoints of higher learning in the country area and ask her: Is this really not the only example we have of trying on the part of a higher education authority in order to drag advanced studies from the country to this capital area, i.e. from where people live? Have not the efforts in recent years been contrary to efforts to build up higher education and options? We have bad experience with change of the highest. Secretary of education in school. Does the Minister think he has all the authority to present the ideas he has presented and make them real, or does he need the legal rights for these changes to the Generals, his or her committee?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u55	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. We view this as temporary on the Committee. That was very clear. As I say, the committee had a single mind on this matter. They really didn't want to do this, neither majority agents nor minors, so they're said, both because of the lateness of the case and because the people had a feeling that they should have solved it. Here, too, is a bit of a mix, a financial mix. They're taking 30 million from the County Fund, i.e. A reserve of housing, to solve the situation, instead of adding the amount as an additional donation. It is similar today in the various aspects of our discussions over the past few weeks. In this room, there were large sums of money on the various subjects, and I don't understand that 30 million can't be taken and put on the budget as much as billions instead of going into this mix. That's what we were worried about. It was noted, however, that the Ministry of Social Affairs did not make direct comments on this. A representative, though, restated his concern that the reserve of housing was ruined, since it is assumed to be two years old. He just said it at the meeting. I believe a minister needs clearance. I can't answer all the committees, but I find that a minister should seek permission. Of course, we've talked about it repeatedly, especially in high school. Because why? In view of the changes that took place at the age of 25 and above, a senator referred to other resources that were evidently being shifted to schools in some parts of the region away from people in some parts of the country. I view it as one of the things the Minister has done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is not the only case known to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u56	A respectable president. Sadly, all of this is the most peculiar issue in many ways. It is brought by members of Congress who do not really want to move it because the music school position is completely intolerable. The cultural authorities haven't cut that tie. There is reason to rebuke them. I don't know why. A senator as a member of the budget for not having had access from year to year to use these contributions in the County Association Fund, whether or not it is totally unacceptable that the members of this body have been allowed to live for months without legal legislation in the current year, apart from the fact that money is being taken into account as late as possible to get into business to build on these plans. I wanted to ask the senator if there was any information on the scale of the music schools and whether any of them were in such a crisis of danger. Likewise, although it is understood by the committee that the minister must accept legal documents for the changes in the music schools he intends to attend, is that also the minister's understanding? He has repeatedly felt that he could take steps to make decisions that to which lawyers do not qualify, e.g. As for the high school in Hafnarfjörður, without first signing it to the General. Is there reason to worry that he will do so in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u57	Mr. President. This source stated that a minister needed to seek them. I'm just speaking for myself, and I think it's necessary, but the Minister has shown that he doesn't have the same understanding and he thinks he can change the education system through the budget, not through conversation at the council. Therefore, as I came to my talk, I am concerned that he will consider this without talking to a person or anyone about the ideas that have been on the wrong side of a music school that is being driven by a government career in the capital area. That's why I'm so worried. The committee noted that there are different schools and some of them are in a very bad situation. It has also been observed in the media that some people feel that if nothing happens, they will not survive. This may be what the assessment of showing the planned amount of Reykjavíkurburg, although it is for a recent report, as I mentioned. Of the fact that late pay has not been passed, these sources have certainly not been directly available, but the financial wealth of rural society has paid these schools monthly up to this point in the hope that this will work, that the bill will be approved. This is not exactly the case, so it would be even more serious. But, of course, it is primarily about a minister's view that when it comes to higher education, he sees an equality for study as a top class. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u58	President. During the last days of the last assembly, I think it was April or May, that was also discussed with the expansion of college after school in music, and the 2011 agreement was extended. It was temporary and was to be a temporary operation, Mr. President, but as far as it has been, the law on advanced music has not been revised, and it is urgent. I hope we're here in the last days of the council, and now we're agreeing to move 30 million from a reserve of housing to this point, in fact, we're being reassigned. That's what the bill says, a respectable president: ▪ That change, however, is made up of 30 million. K. The government's contribution to the reserve of housing is canceled. Instead, the equivalent amount of money is spent to help solve the emergency problems of music schools that teach students who are at a grade 4 students, which usually precedes university education. So these are high school students in music. So says a respectable president: ▪ It is up to you to negotiate between your country partner, music school in Reykjavík, and the State for a complete solution to financial problems, especially a music school in Reykjavík. A respectable president. There's been a real problem in Reykjavík, and it's not least because the nature of the case that they want to study in music in the capital area, perhaps because people may be in college but also at a high school in music, they are here in the capital city, and they attend the study here. So the capital capital city may have carried this with a significantly greater weight than other societies. Music teachers in Reykjavík have given us much importance to members of the city of Reykjavík, that when it comes to an overall review, we need to look at this situation to a great extent. A respectable president. Of course it has to be done. But that is not the way it seems to be planned, unfortunately, in view of what you hear from the news and do not have evidence of it for others. Total Accounting at the highest. Today, the minister of education seems to aim for a high school of music to move to Reykjavík, music all move to Reykjavík, and it will not continue to be supported by its studies in the country. It is natural that this might be the intention, because what has promoted music here and does so, for example. We own this fancy symphony band, and we have classy musicians all over the country, that is exactly what people have been able to study in music throughout the country. We must not destroy it. It can't happen. A respectable president. I know this discussion isn't part of this bill here that I'm going to be supporting. But it can't be that we go through a discussion about the bill without discussing what has happened to speakers. Councilmen who have spoken before me, to the highest. The Minister of Education has done so in his work that he intends to turn the basics into educational and cultural life through the budget, through the budget, by a respectable president. True, he went ashore, and I hear it in noncombat members of the United States that they have the hope that the highest level of knowledge could have been established. A few weeks ago, the minister of his journey to the district of high school. But he has not shown this to one of the oldest educational institutions near us. He does not take so much as respecting the ideas of the University of Education in Reykjavík as to how they might conduct their teaching; they can have a four - year high school, which begins the year earlier. But he does not respect it, but he only uses the power of the money to change this and does not respect those who speak to others. He did the same for students 25 years of age and older. The laws were to be used so that they would not get to high school. He was going to do the same, and in part he did so with the State Radio. In fact, we now have reports that he will withdraw or modify the suggestions that were offered to reduce the radio rate even more. I just want to say, Mr. Honorable President, that I think it's almost scary that we're here with a government and a minister of education who's going to change the high school system and change the state radio, change all of this through the budget, and don't talk about it at the council. So I'd like to agree with what just happened that we must go looking for a minister to explain this to us. It's the committee that carries the bill, so we're 1st. and we must make the requirement, or ask for it politely, at any rate, that the Ministry of Education becomes 2nd. The bill, and he can then tell us what the suggestions are on exactly what they are discussing about the change in high school education in music in the country. I want to reiterate what I've said before. I believe, of course, that there may be more demand there than there because people may come from other rural societies to the capital and are, for example, the capital. In college or whatever else, they go to college with music. But, Mr President, we cannot agree that the abundant vegetation that has been through the country in advanced education and the continuation of music will be canceled without a complete discussion, and we know what is going on. Of course, there may have been differing opinions about what it should be like, but we need to be reasoned with and opposed here, a respectable president, before it happens through the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u59	Mr. President. I agree with that. I think it's absolutely necessary to get to the top. The Minister of Education comes here and only shows the cards in connection with this strange thing, I'd really like to let me say. Of course, it was very special to listen to a prominent speaker in a sort of apology for this case because there was nothing else to do in the mess that exists. Without teaching anyone there, I have to say exactly as it is, because I had a bit of a problem in my time, that it's a big disappointment that this has come back to such a statue, this relationship between state and rural society regarding contributions to music education at high school or higher school levels. However, after years of problems between the state and the local community were finally cleaned up in this 2011, and the state deposits considerable new funds, I wonder if it was 250 million fields that remained of the government's new resources into the case when 480 million minus the 230 million that were calculated to be accepted by the rural community. It was, of course, that this would be in line to drop the basic study, where there are already fixed rules on the cost of law-to-home membership if it is not where the study is going to take place, the government would do this with the rural communities, those with advanced studies. This is of great importance because it is the nature of the case in fewer places and much, much more about the fact that students in high school are beyond their legal community, and this problem should be solved, whether in the case of Reykjavík or anyone else. Then I agree with that, these dramatic ideas that you heard in the news at these days from the highest. A minister of education - who seems to think that he can reorganize things in his Ministry without asking a king or a priest, but perhaps seek financial releases - to submit the support of the state of the entire high school in the country and establish one state music school in Reykjavík, I think I have heard the correct report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u60	A respectable president. I don't know the exact amount, but I understand that in terms of the agreement made in 2011, it was some different interpretation of how the city of Reykjavík interpreted it, and it seemed to bear more weight than the agreement expected. Then I think there's a need to revise. I repeat, music instructors and schools in Reykjavík have worked very hard on us members of the district, if I may put it this way, to be on guard with a review of this. As it is most true, it is not often appealed to us members of the city of Reykjavík as district delegates and may be more than that, but it is likely due to the mass of people here and the many forms of growth that exist in the capital and the nature of things not all over the country. I'd like to stress that I don't like the word that's being heard that it's like not leaving the college out in the country. I still don't quite believe it, Mr. Honorable President, until I'm on it, but once again I stress that we need the highest power. Minister at 2nd. The point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u61	Mr. President. Yes, it is. I was aware that soon there began to be a conflict in the interpretation of certain factors related to this agreement, which, of course, was, to the extent that this would include a statement by the State on the number of standards or how to evaluate the increased demand for study and the like. I'm not exactly involved in that technicality, but it doesn't change the fact that there were significant new funds that came into the jury by this agreement. Since this 250 billion could be sucked into it. K. In the new budget of 2011, it is odd that there is no way to get this together now, for 2015, if you want one of these things to be handsome, and for the State to live up to its own privatizing responsibilities on high school and higher education in the country. That's what it's all about, and no dispute, I think, that the basics of the local community are a part of elementary school or elementary school, but when it comes to middle school and high school education, it's the government's turn. I have not been given any explanation as to why this is a beach in 2015. Of course, it's important to get it together with Reykjavíkurburg, I'm not making it small, it's naturally very big in this, probably that community where students are most common from other places, then it could be Akureyri, where it's often been quite modern, but I think that it was usually solved a bit of trouble compared to what I know about it. Perhaps Akureyri has simply viewed herself as the center of this North American study more than anything else, and even if students from other rural groups, they have not made much more of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-15-131.u62	President. I think I'd like to divorce the discussion by saying that it's natural that there's an overall review of it. I don't think we're allowed to overlook it at all, and forget that music life here is naturally remarkable, I think I can handle it right, how it's done up here, and how it's gone all over the country, because some decades ago it was put a huge effort to further the music program all over the country. It may well be that at that time, it was primarily in the basic stages, but it is now that, fortunately, a respectable president, if you start at a basic stage and people are doing well and the schools work then people continue to study more and better, and then we must not destroy it. Hv. A senator named Akureyri, where he knows well. I know a lot about music, I can say that, I know how it works. My two friends run the music school each time at Isafjordy, and there's a tremendous task that is done there, and we can't tear it down, just not at all.
