ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u1	Borist has a letter from the 10th. Smoke. n., Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, that he can't attend a meeting at his next session. So today, at General 1st, a deputy of Pirata's district name, Halldóra Mogensen. Halldóra Mogensen has previously taken her place at the General Assembly, and she is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u2	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Health asking for every request to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 998 of Jón Þór Ólafsson
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u3	A respectable president. I would like to make a comment on the proposal that the presidents of four anti-continental parties, the United States, the Left Green, the Bright Future, and the Pirata, who have been submitted and distributed in the council, not to be seen in the program of this meeting today. It must raise a question of what would be delayed when four of the six members of the council, the president of these classes, make such a suggestion. Why is it not included in the program for a discussion? Is this yet another attempt to keep the council from talking about the issues that have been discussed in every other part of the world, but are we in the council lately? I ask myself, and I must insist that this proposal be arranged as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u4	For this reason, the president would like to state that he explained at the meeting of the classes and at the presiding committee meeting at the beginning of the week to the proposed proposal. A senator would be on the program at the beginning of the assembly after the Passover. Of course, it is clear to the president that behind this suggestion, the directors of all the political groups were in position to pay for the matter to be planned. The president concluded that this case will be addressed immediately after Easter break at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u5	A respectable president. It is not enough that members of Congress have not been able to enter much of the council but, rather, a large proportion of the members of Congress that have already been proposed still remain uninformed. The number of council members submitted early in autumn has not yet been discussed here. Then comes a motion where all the presidents of the government are united in one suggestion in the name of these classes and these councils, and I don't think it's okay to tell us that this can wait until the Passover. Now that we're discussing foreign affairs here why this important matter is not being planned for Easter, I feel that there is a need for a clearer argument. Under these circumstances, it would have seemed natural to me that the president would accept it. I don't know an example of reacting in this way to a suggestion made with these transporters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u6	The President wants to say for this reason only that in the matter of Congress it has been an excellent agreement among the council groups and the president to try to pay for the general progress of Congress matters. When this is considered in context, there are in the least fewer members of Congress that have been scheduled than has ever been during the past council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u7	A respectable president. I agree with these requirements. I don't like the idea of a council hearing proposed by the presidents of all the minor parties at the council for a national agreement on the continuation of the discussions, not even for Easter. This matter has been discussed quite a bit over the past few weeks because the foreign minister sent a letter. That was the wrong channel. He was wrong to try to put it on the program by sending a letter to the world. He's to enter Congress. That's what we're doing. We're going the right channel. I find it minimal in this important matter that we are rewarded for using the right channel for making the decision and that this matter will be done well before the Passover.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u8	Mr. President. How foolish it is that a matter made available to four presidents of the government is not open to discussion. To be honest, I don't remember, at least. does not have a case of this magnitude. Besides, I think it's better to underline the gap between the council and the nation when it is obvious that this is a case that 80% of the people want to achieve. This is how our last polls are conducted. If the highest. Today, the president will review the program, and he will see that it is a key subject on the agenda of issues related to the decomposition of the Development Agency. They all know that there is a lax matter. It's so untraced that the government's possession has requested it and has received the President's support to implement administration of the Minister's plans. This, of course, would mean that this matter should wait until its conclusions are made. I feel entirely alone that this event will be canceled, and the other part is already scheduled for the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u9	V.E.G. President. It's not the European Union that drives me in a speech chair today, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that on March 18 of this year, the National Medical Association sent a commission to the Council for the Council's Committee on a bill to legalize the changing of the law on liquor and tobacco trade. The review gives us very important reasons for doing so. Pay more attention to this matter and to the Board of Education. They call back and pass through it. In its conclusion, the letter says, with permission of the highest power. President: It also points to the authority of children's emissary. The most vulnerable victims of alcohol abuse are children. A general council has recently legalized the United Nations Children's Covenant. It is paradox to conclude that after accepting a prehistoric bill, it will have a negative impact on the life and development of children and young people who are drinking alcohol in their immediate environment. Mr. President. I'd like to direct the earnest wish to the General and Education Committee that she will take this matter to a careful consideration and get a representative of the Iceland Medical Association to meet her and review this matter further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u10	President. That was a nice input from what. paritaprevir SodmundsonÞorsteinn Sæmundsson stone, especially since it has just been discussed with me in this program how it was settled from the board of directors so that I can say something. Senator. It's not why I'm coming up here. It's because of the few things you've heard that the government groups out here are not getting together. I haven't been in these sales for a long time, but I don't remember that it was that way in the memory of the section, but it was tried to proceed with such a big deal as this. I want to express my frustration that this matter should not be taken on the program for Easter, especially in view of the mess that that man, the highest. Minister of state, who will handle this case for us, has placed us in our hands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u11	Mr. President. In February 2014, there was no prior proposal for violations in the Member States. Thus, 53,555 protested, as well as with many mass meetings in the East. It was being disputed against the government of this important matter of interest and fraud of elections. Well, that case was put to sleep on a committee to protect the government from further problems. But then it sends out the highest. Secretary of state has got a letter, and everything's going to be very upset here. It turns out that about 80% of voters want to vote for the rest of the case, and the heads of all minorities have made a suggestion, but it cannot be arranged. Mr. President. I don't understand a schedule like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u12	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear that you should not try to minimize the suggestion. Councilmen discussed here. I think it's very important that we take our time to discuss the proposal, and we don't do it in the 11th hour before we have a intermission. And any ideas I have heard at the council's walk not to be a limited speech time when we discuss this suggestion. Senators, executives of the administrations, I hope that a respectable president will not take such action. I think it's crucial that we discuss the proposal well and long, and use this opportunity, and drive the myths and wrongs that have been presented in this case and that we discuss the whole EU case. If there are any ideas here to try to get this done in one moment, on a few of my own, I encourage a respectable president to blow on all of that and take a serious talk about the EU.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u13	A respectable president. I understand why. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - god of Þór Þórðarson's son must go through words and veins associated with the European Union's national pay because it is a complex, deep discussion that independents must take there and need to accept not only the council but also the voters of the final election. But that's not the very subject of the comment I'm going to make in terms of President's decision that has not yet been reasoned. It's about the concierge proposal for this discussion that there is no progress on the program for Easter, a plagiarismic arrangement on which all the administrations and presidents of the entire government stand on board. I don't think it's unacceptable that the president would give more objective reasons for his conclusion than he's done in the discussion so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u14	Mr. President. During the last week's declaration of this matter, the following was made, with the permission of a president: At the same time, it is clear that the resolution of the Generals has not been changed or returned. For one thing, due to the political importance of the EU issue, I felt that in 2013 there was a need for a concierge proposal to break up if it was planned to cancel the Member State's application. At the same time, the president said it was a diplomatic method to end the negotiation without formal withdrawal of the application. What's a good rule at the council? If it's important, you get to come up here and discuss it in unprepared questions with a president. Another one. If there is a lot of time to ask - and this is a matter of time now because the European Union may decide to complete the situation, so it is important to start calling for national pay. It works, so there is nothing against it. The president has not explained why he is not prepared to take the matter on schedule today, to postpone it until tomorrow, which will be discussed today, and to have a meeting on Friday. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's nothing against it. [[The president calls.]] President is...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u15	A respectable president. How happy we are at that time! paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þórðarson, vice president of the Independence Party, is willing to have an unlimited talk period on the subject mentioned here, but this is in a crying contrast to the fact that this leading members of the Independence Party do not dare to take the matter on a program today and neither will it be held on Thursday. I think if you're going to be an unlimited talk time then we must take the matter on the program right away unless the government groups don't survive. But I came up here mostly to celebrate a clue. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson. I don't think we've all had a problem hearing about the shipment received from the Iceland Medical Association. Surely, all of us must pay abundant attention when we give in to what we have considered. I agree with what. Of course, a senator that this case has been thoroughly maligned by the Committee when it was settled there... [[The president calls.]] I think there is a reason why the committee would call the matter back in before it's through 2. and review this opinion by the Medical Association. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u16	Mr. President. First, I want to say the word with the question. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson stone when he wishes the booze bill to be called back into bed. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I think it's important to do it, because the thing isn't ready to be discussed here, there's too many loose ends there. So I'm glad to hear it. A senator should point this out and agree. Second, like others who have come up with this team, I would like to request support for whatever issue the whole government stands behind and was very well informed at a meeting of council officers that were coming, is not on the program and why the matter is being spent under the direction of the President when it was so easy to set up the matter and put it there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u17	Mr. President. I come back here because it's so surprising that four presidents of the council offer a proposal for this national interest, and they can't be arranged for an Easter permit. What issues are so urgent that this issue cannot be arranged? Is that what's meant to undermine Iceland's evolutionary cooperation with the poorest states of this world? Is that more important? The matter has been made clear in the case of the vice president of the House of Independence that the matter needs a thorough discussion. The lesser part is ready for a detailed, material discussion. We have many days ahead of us. It would be interesting, though, to know how extensive and material discussions were when a letter was given. The minister of foreign affairs was introduced to the party of Independence and the forwarding party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u18	A respectable president. In view of the words that have fallen here, I'd like to refer to the council leader of the Independence Party, who served on Monday for the hearing of when the proposal was to be made by the chairman of the Council at the General Assembly, that the president assumed that he had taken that day, April 14th, from. At that time, members of the council mentioned the memory of the part of that section at the same meeting that they asked for the matter to be settled today and for the first time. it would be determined to proceed with the committee and the rest of the cases. it would be taken later. It was not at the request of a president or others to allow the deadlines mentioned here. As a member of the Independence Party, I am prepared to discuss this proposal at any time and anywhere and need no more or less time than the General Assembly would give me at any time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u19	A respectable president. It's good to go. The head of the Independence Party is prepared to discuss this proposal at any time and anywhere. But I think it's very important that it be discussed at the council, not anywhere. I think it's very important to be on schedule for Easter. I'd like to point out that coming from the government is not some big deal, I've raised the subject here in the pontta that they're patheticly few, initiative cases from the government. There is a direct meeting in the council committees over the lack of government issues, even though the matter is surging from members of Congress. I would also like to point out that this matter, of the national agreement on the continuation of our discussions, should be a well - established stand at the council. It is not just the minority that is involved, the members of the government, the other two members of the council, both of them made clear about elections and, in fact, just after them, that they also wanted such a national fee. [[The president calls.]] Is it not obvious, then, that we put it on schedule and get involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u20	A respectable president. Hv. Hjörvar We haven't actually started political business last night, and we've actually been traveling here a long time. Hv. A senator knows that if these matters are to be discussed right now with a limited amount of time, we are killing the discussion. It's just that way. On the other hand, if we go where I'm happy to hear the almost-the-non-form of the United States, then. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir, bring it up. It gave a landmark declaration, for it stated that the Conspiracy existed in a detailed topic discussion of the European Union. It's a milestone, a major breakthrough, and there's something I think we should do. We cannot play this raw game, we must discuss the European Union. It is extremely important that we have some particular time here just prior to Easter. Let us get along properly with this discussion, and I encourage a respectable president to use himself to see that this will be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u21	President. I'm like a whisk. paritaprevir Gullish Þór Þórðarson had a long, strict discussion of the European Union here once more. But it always goes on the same thing, some super talk from his mouth. But I'd rather not discuss it. I'd like to say that it is natural to say that if the officers of the House of Government have offered that there would be a limited time here in the past, which I didn't know, it would simply make it easier for a president to set the matter on schedule for the Passover so that one or nothing would be delayed. But I would have held back what I have learned from the council and how it works that this is the very thing of extending an act of reconciliation and a willingness to communicate or cooperate. But then comes natural. paritaprevir Gullful Þórðarson, who surprises me, tries to turn it out and make up the worst of matters, which are also not a suggestion for consultation. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u22	A respectable president. I have to agree with my members at the council today, who were surprised to learn that there are no proposed plans for the four members of the House of Governments here at the General Assembly. This is of great importance in view of the fact that it would be more important if the chairman of a council party is a traveller when a matter is presented. When it comes to speaking time or not limitation, it is primarily to help with the program. It has now been so that the government has held up the program for a council and that the government has received a case except for EU regulations and similar things. That's the largest part of the government business and there's nothing in the water. Here, however, we are going to discuss a matter that is not subject to Congress; it is not ready for Congress treatment. I think it's a serious matter that's being planned on a major foreign minister case here. We've been waiting for the report that the President himself agreed to make. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I still feel that the matter is on schedule. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u23	V.E.G. President. I come here for a speech tour. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, I think it's a reason to call the CDC back to the General and Education Committee, especially after the advice of the National Medical Association of Iceland, which provides serious indications on the possible effects of the bill on the well - being of children and young people. As a member of the General and Education Committee, I strongly support the reinstatement of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u24	Mr. President. I want to say something for a reason. paritaprevir Ragnheiður the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, president of the Council of Independence, and hombre. paritaprevir Þór, the Guðlaugur - god of Þórðarson, who is the vice president of an independent party, relates that it was Wednesday, March 18, at a council meeting. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, chairman of the Bjarts'future, announced that this council arrangement was coming from the memory of the section and immediately requested that it be on the schedule. Then it is informed that she should attend the program on April 14, almost a month after this request was submitted. In order to improve the situation, the government has only a limited period of time in the previous year. She was asking, not for it, but to help with the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u25	A respectable president. For word's sake. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, I'd like to take this opportunity to encourage you. A senator to make a suggestion to the General Education Committee according to what she said here in the platform. I'm sure that such a proposal will have a sound foundation on the committee. I'm sure it will end up with good reason to consider what it was holding here. The other, a respectable president, must ask himself, " Has this debate not revealed that there is not a greater support for the council behind the President's decision, since here, both president and vice president of the Independence Party have declared that they are ready to go wherever and whenever we want to discuss the European Union for as long as we want? ' [[Up front.]] As far as I can see, the 3/4 part of the chamber must support the development of the matter, both the minority and the leading members of the independence party. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] So you begin to wonder, " Is there any basis for me to go to the meeting just to see if there is any plans for a change in schedule? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u26	A respectable president. I am here primarily to emphasize the first requirement that this matter be taken up by the four presidents of this council. I'm not going to kill the talk over the part of a talk. I would like to have a part in the seminary and the routine of the council, but this is a huge case and it is important that the council responds to this requirement of four officers, especially in the light of the fact that, as it has been pointed out, at this convention's meeting program today, it is unconvinced. It is impossible to complete a case until all the data are available, both the administrative and a report we have requested for a few in the council. So I don't see how fast it is to be in the case while our four proposals lie in wait for a situation that burns on the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u27	Mr. President. I've found it in the Senate. I was amazed to see that the council presidents could predetermine a discussion with a president. Well, I guess that's possible, according to the 86st. Congress. I think there is a power that's very unnatural. If we talk about the Congress, it will be clear that the President has the final ruling authority on the Congress, and the President has total total sovereignty when it comes to deciding what the program will be for the Council. If the President was interested in setting up a national law on this important issue, the EU, which every category in the Parliament has promised voters, has promised the people that they will be, he could. It is important, especially in view of the fact that the minister of foreign affairs is now trying with cunning, in a diplomatic manner, as the highest. The president puts it, to get the European Union to end these discussions, and to ignore the will of the council, past an approved synonym. The President has this authority completely. [[The president calls.]] He could put this matter on schedule now, we could talk all day, and then wait for the first. Just after that. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] But we can start today, that's important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u28	A respectable president. I think there's every reason to remember that when a letter reaches the top. The minister of foreign affairs had then revealed the wish of the same day from members of the House of Congress to be discussed without delay during the council. We asked, at the General Assembly of the Icelanders, that the chamber be opened for discussion. We were denied it. Then, with good advance notice, a pact proposal is offered by all the political groups and their leaders, but we are also denied that the matter will be planned. I think a respectable president needs to reevaluate the position the government has here at the council. As you look at that position, you are likely to wonder whether the Hall of Congress is more open to certain categories than to others. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u29	A respectable president. I can't quite figure out the position we're in. Why is it not possible to do so when the presidents of four political parties at the General Assembly request that a matter be addressed, a matter of great importance? 80% of the population have said that they want to vote for whether and how to proceed with the European language. 55 you. Last year a man signed a challenge to the council on comparable issues. What are people afraid of in this? What fears are there for the greater part of the council to make such efforts to prevent the people from asking these questions, the simple question of whether people will want, the people will want, to continue their business talks? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u30	A respectable president. I just want to review the council schedule for one day. We're talking about competition in a small sales market, international development team in Iceland, international security, the EEA deal, a deal between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, and a contract between Greenland and Iceland. I think it's absurd, there's a crisis in society, society's split, campaign broke. I don't understand what's at the top. So the president is working on this matter, of course, to be part of the program. I encourage my fellow citizens to protest. Nothing else seems to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u31	Mr. President. I think it's pretty heavy to the highest. This request should not be brought to the attention of the president. In itself, it is polite, but it does not have to be. It is not every day that the presidents of the administrations of all the opposing parties bring together a matter of Congress. In addition, the matter is addressed directly to the language at the highest rate. The minister of foreign affairs has put it on the program with his peculiar letter to the European Union for a brief week. At the same time, I want the government to show, to settle the case, and to pay for the management team being able to put it on schedule, to make the discussion only three hours, even smaller. There is no way to argue that the government side has some kind of machine to try to put this matter down in order to stop the Senate work. V.E.G. The president knows as well as I do that it would pay a great deal for Congress not only today but also for the next week, if the government situation were to succeed. But it seems to me that this incorruption on the side of the board is not going to happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u32	Once again, the president insists that it is not his intention to prevent this issue from coming on. The president immediately announced that there would be a first issue on a meeting day outside of a day of inquiry, right behind the Passover. In this way the president wanted to emphasize that this was an important case presented by the presidents of all classes, and he wanted to emphasize it in his words, saying that it was his decision and that it would be arranged for the matter to be on the agenda as the first issue on the third day after the Passover. With this in mind, the president of the United States is, on the contrary, to the court of the Council of Governments, the least of which is his opinion that, of course, the case presented by the presidents of all the government groups is more important than the general members of Congress, and is the president, with the least possible use of speaking down to those who also have a great claim to get to the program, and the president has tried to make such an effort.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u33	Mr. President. During the context of the United Nations meeting, among other subjects of immigrants were dealing with elections in many European countries, the last losses showing the rise and spread of extremes that foster nationalism and hatred for foreigners and masses. Sadly, such views have also been given a sound base in this country. The Contestation of the National Conference was Evin Incir, director of the International Association of Young Peers. She arrived in Sweden at the age of six as a fugitive from Kuristan. The family fled the country because of the persecution of Turks and has lived in Sweden ever since. Evin reasoned with foreigners in Europe, saying that as ethnic movements and guerrilla groups stirred up a negative response that can easily compare with their dissatisfaction. Today, immigrants are responsible for economic instability that take from people's work and are responsible for worse education for children and worse health systems. Here they were Jews and Gypsies, but now they are immigrants. The United States wants to fight the development of these cases on the land, building on this battle of strong baselines. Not surprisingly, a council of officers of the Northern Council feels the same way. paritaprevir Our special representative, Gudday Hannesson. The House concluded recently on this route, with president's permission: ▪ We welcome all to the northern countries, who come in peace and want to start a new life for themselves and their own. And when extremes and terrorism threaten our communities, we unite our strings, look both hands together, and see men and women, with the same wishes and desires - freedom, equal to, and justice for all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u34	A respectable president. I'd like to tear down the council's position only when there was distress over the rest of the assembly meeting days. I enjoyed viewing the Government Constitution, which was in the fall of 204 cases, in fact increased to 216 during the New Year's annual conventions, but when researching what the Ministers of the Government have presented many issues for this council, the 87 of which are over 40% of the cases that are expected to be submitted to the council. As I'd like to say, only the assembly days have begun to mount. The General has completed 43 members of Congress, which are less than 20% cases of Congress. A respectable president. It is of particular interest to see that at the Generals' new site, statistics can be considered on these issues, including the proportion of contributions from the Supreme Court. The prime minister of the affairs of the Council's Constitution of winter is 25%. There's a lot of things left but the highest. The government plans to reexamine its subjects, and I say that this amazing situation has two sides. Of course, there are a lot of people in this room who like the most. Governments, if there are not necessarily improving, but there are others in this room who are concerned that this delay in making a donation, which has become daylight when the statistics are presented, will be affecting the Council's work programme. I want less than ever. It is important that the decision to change the work programme here should be agreed on by the president. Senators and wοuldn't. Councilmen, that no such changes will be made without consultation. Congress cannot pay if there's no case coming from the government on time. Sadly, a number of categories have often been listed that ministerial servants are taking their case in time. [[The president calls.]] These statistics do not suggest any improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u35	A respectable president. We tend to avoid discussions about unpleasant facts. Uncomfortable facts, for example, are the ones that confront us in the world's environment. I'm worried that we're not doing too much of this here at the council and in politics focusing on the group we're dealing with, that I don't talk about the amazing ideas heard from the leading of the Action Party that the world's climate is giving us a special opportunity for Icelanders. I think the news we're receiving today because it slows down the Golf current is a special message for those who live in the strange world to see an opportunity in the global environmental threat. I think we also need the news that came in January and has been strange about what scientists have concluded about changes in Iceland's soils, information on the fact that 11 billion tons lose out of Iceland each year, and that this may, among other things, lead to more recent eruptions in the mid - 1990's than ever before. Various other messages that we have received stress the need to strive to combat this disaster, even though we do not weigh on the average of the world, everything within our power to set the environment in forestatement and to set the pattern for other nations in how to combat this potential threat.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u36	A respectable president. It was interesting to hear a speech last night. A senator, who, like other members of the United States Congress, is likely to come from the greatest failed party council of the European Union. Any doubt that the United States is defined as the political offspring of the Common Community, it was fully underlined this weekend. There is no doubt about it anymore. We are here today with very well - defined two common alliances, VG and the United States, one of which is a large category of unity around the European Union, which I hope we can talk about despite that. Councilmen of the United States try to limit speech lessons when these things are to be discussed. I think I heard a foretaste at the time of night. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, and I just want to say for myself as an amateur in politics that I am very excited to hear the formation that begins right now when it comes to the conversion of oil. There's nothing more or less than the main heavyweights in the United States, boy. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, huh? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir. paritaprevir The daughter of Oddný Harðardóttir, who went great as oil ministers, promised all beautiful and saw an enormous opportunity in all of this. Now, not a few years ago, not a few months ago, but January 27, this large oil people came along and adopted a state oil society proposal. As an amateur political amateur, I am excited to see what will begin to happen. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Well, it's the first thing that happened to Hjörvar. He speaks of the importance of being the best environment - which we have been. When it comes to climate, Iceland has been the leading nation because we have replaced renewable energy and I hope we continue to do so. [[The president calls.]] I'll be keeping an eye on the range that's about to start after these shots. Councilmen were taken down at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u37	A respectable president. The United States was on the lead of the last government to trigger an oil search in the Dragon Zone. Secretarys of the Union and members of Parliament spoke of opportunities to follow the oil research and oil process, both structure and employment. This is one of the parishes into the future, the members of congregating council members and ministers in a joyful hour. They raised the people's hopes and beliefs in the North and East on new opportunities and great structure in the future. There were protesting programs, and a number of people were investigating local possibilities. Contracts were signed for oil search and research in the Dragon Zone, which is considered at the cost of billions of dollars. They believed in opportunities and international and international organizations that believed in the project and the manager, the government of Iceland. The Conspiracy has now taken a stand against the possibility of building and throwing to the seditious direction of the pack for many years on the use and construction of opportunities for land and nation around oil processing in the Dragon area, the most optimistic men are robbing dreams of the area. A respectable president. I wondered if the Conspiracy would want to end the contracts that the Party held during the last term and whether it was to the end what it was considering to be a national evasion. It's impressive how the United States has failed citizens of the North and East, all over the country, who put their hopes on the opportunities and research that might affect society. In the shelter of such activities, there are many opportunities for service and creation, where there is a lack of a wide range of employment that pays well. During a famous meeting in the United States, almost forgot to mention the interests of the workers in the country, and the political assumptions did not mention or at best lack all the power in a position of pay. A respectable president. In the country, employees need support, and it is important that such projects as exports that have room for more pay to work on workers in the progress of the export work has been made in recent years. That's gonna take more energizing than the Conspiracy's got. [[The president calls.]] The Convergence is cracked.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u38	A respectable president. I watched last night's Castress show discussing the meaning of food and that it would be difficult to understand what was a lot of sugar in food. I celebrate this kind of talk, especially on television, and it's consumer education of the best type. What I find truly remarkable is that the information on food is really not understandable. In this regard, I would like to remind you of a decree made by me and members of the Parliament, which, as in Britain, have been made with all classes and has turned to the color - producing food program. Red, orange and green for sugar, salt and fat. The consumers hand the food outside the store, and if it is a red sugar traffic light, it means that the product contains a lot of sugar. Salt is also something that could be done to make an entire Castes show about what salt means and whether we stay within the recommended daily dose of salt. Like too much sugar, we eat too much salt, and it affects our health. I don't really think it's a good idea that we should mean food and provide information like that - but no one can understand that information. I was disappointed when I took care of the reviews of our fine council proposals from all categories, since they were rather negative. At the same time, the surgeon general is doing good things by having a website where you can see what the sugar is in a particular yogurt species, and so forth, but isn't there something peculiar about me standing in the store and not knowing what a lot of sugar is in the product but can go on a website and see how much sugar is in the product? I'm supposed to get that information when I'm at the store. I think we need to discuss this because it has been shown that we eat too much sugar and too much salt. [[The president calls.]] If we are to change this, consumers must be informed so that they understand the information.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u39	V.E.G. President. Today, I would like to call attention to a positive phase taken by the government of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunug, to the right position of Icelandic households and to back them up. Many homes have now been corrected for their insured mortgages. A total of 69 o'clock. Applications from 105 yous. individuals who are in debt to correct the prices of the mortgages. At midnight, a three - month extension was issued to accept the provision of the correcting value for the candidates who could accept the correction on December 23 of that year. But 99.4% of them agreed. Today, you have 101st. applicants, i.e. 96% of the total, received the results of calculation. This great justice and fairness has now come into port and supports the home, the foundation of society, which is now more powerful. It is a joy to hear of families who experience significant changes in their condition. The decrease in the monthly payments about a thousand certainly means more space for sharing in social activities and leisure activities, so to speak. I'd also say that yesterday 33,300 applied to arrange extra pension savings to pay the head seat of mortgages, but there has been a considerable increase in the number of applications in the last few weeks. There is a fine opportunity to restore the home's debt and to live in favor of the future. Me and the Icelanders have to go back a little and see that it's good to save for things, even before leaving. It impresses me how little has really been said about this operation and its implementation, which is accomplished in itself. It tells me things have worked out well, and little has happened. The government tax manager and the people who were doing this work were very grateful, and they did a great deal of work on complex solutions. A journey and a battle that began six years ago have become a fact. [[The president calls.]] As has been said since the beginning, the right of the households is now being taken at the expense of the swellingrs of banks and demands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u40	Mr. President. First, I'm going to thank you for your interest. The members of the Independence Party in the United States and are happy that they've followed a narrow, exciting, powerful national meeting. I encourage them to visit the United States website and to study the various conclusions that were accepted there. I'm going to briefly review one of the most important things. It's about the housing business. The union has been in charge of housing, and it is very concerned about the slowness now existing by the government to ensure that everyone's apartment is in place. During the next few days, we will make a synonym with action on both its own and its length. I'm going to go over the emergency procedures I'm waiting for. The members of the Independence Party as well as other members of this hall help us get approved because they are for everyone. These measures are an increase in rent reforms, making them equal to growth reforms, increasing the supply of rented apartments now rented to tourists with tax freedom of rent from one apartment with certain criteria. Then we want to change the law on community debt so that social housing does not fall into debt and will allow rural communities to buy social apartments, thus ensuring the security of all their citizens. We would also like that for low - paying employees and young people to be developed an extra loan group with government support so that all the people who cannot afford to buy or rent can provide their families with normal conditions for living. Help us get through the apartments for everybody. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u41	V.E.G. President. Well, I'm on the same line as what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Although Þórunn, the Egilsdóttir of Elil, decided to keep up with my talk because there are no good references too often. As many are aware, due to the price - secure mortgage has been accomplished. The procedure included 69 thousand applications or 105 thousand persons who had a securable mortgage. The majority of these individuals could accept an adjustment from December 23 to March 23. This is 101 thousand or 96% of the total candidates for correction. Three thousand to 4,000 applications are yet to be processed, hard work to complete. It was midnight that the three-month contract ran out. Now it has been observed that 99.4% of those who have been corrected accept it. The total volume of correction was 79.4 billion. Of the total amount, 77.7 billion are expected to be included in the interest of individuals or households in the country and 5.7 billion will be set aside as a special person discount, and this procedure will be divided over four years. We realize that there are many other homes in the country besides homes with prices for housing. Therefore, it is particularly enjoyable to see prime products that will be taken in rented homes now entering the council at the end of the month's conventions. These are primes relating to the build-up capacity of rented apartments. According to one estimate, this arrangement can reduce the cost of rent by several percent. These include changes in rent law, change in housing partnerships, and bill for increased support in the form of rent repairs to tens. All these bills are improving for the tenants of the country, and it's a great pleasure to see the wealth in these matters, not a stillness, as was the last term when we could not see any bill on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to draw attention to the subject that was only tore earlier today about the President's conference board and in terms of the so - called wine business and what came from the medical department this morning. I was here to speak with the highest. A health minister yesterday must only review his answers, not answers, but rather. I'm just gonna kill down in his answer to me here yesterday. He said, with President's permission: ▪ What I'm most concerned about is how we can minimize alcohol abuse, not just drug abuse, but, above all, abuse. It has also been very much thinking about the simple fact that the direction of the NTVR company has been increasing over the past few years by increasing the availability of people to this legal product. He also has the motivation for the bill here for the fundamental change that is being proposed for the payment of the public health fund. And then he said when I asked him about his position on the bill that it would come out when it came to a vote. A respectable president. It is not clear in the health minister's response that this bill is greatly increasing access to alcohol. It's against the medical community, along with so many others that have established a General and Education Committee. It is paradox, as it says, to agree with this bill that has a negative impact on the growth of children and young people. I also find it very special that a minister who intends to hang himself in that 5% should flow into a public health fund in this bill should not simply offer himself to expand his contribution to public health instead of try to scratch the tray, for he obviously was in a great deal of trouble in responding to his own clean stand as a health minister to this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u43	V.E.G. President. The economy has now published new information on the standard of living and the quality of life of children in Iceland. The positive in these numbers is that the proportion of children who live in homes below low income limits or who find it very difficult to make ends meet slightly decreased. A respectable president. It is in itself positive that the ratio goes down, but it remains a serious fact that about a tenth of children have a low standard of living and suffers a lack of material advantages. One of the most serious manifestations of this situation is that children are involved in a less organized youth and leisure activities. In Iceland alone, less than one third of children are not engaged in regular leisure activities. For example, in the 2010 Medical Conference, researchers found that children who suffer from some type of lack and who suffer from worsening mental health later in life will have worse physical health. In contrast, research shows that participation in organized leisure activities reduces the likelihood of any abnormal behavior and increases the risk of improving your well - being and physical well - being. A respectable president. This problem, according to these latest statistics, is linked to income and housing status. I wondered how much we spend our energy and energy here on our work. We have the opportunity now to make changes. I trust the government will bring in an introduction to a decision-making ceremony and will provide for a substantial compensation for the lowest paid. We will be able to pay the streets of families whose homes are infested. Thus, a respectable president, we can improve the position of our children.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u44	A respectable president. The King - Designate of the forwarding party came up here and discussed the lack of gratitude and coverage of this debt breakdown. I just want to get a touch of it. I'd like to say that at least on my moneybook, my news service there, people are quite much more able to see that it's taken from one pocket to put it into another. It surprises people that the correction is not a matter of being taken away because it is taken away from other places. I come up here to discuss the news that the News magazine has brought us today to the highest level. Secretary of finance intends to proceed with the customs system for further review. I'm celebrating it and I'm supporting it. The whole thing needs to be changed. He stresses clothes on customs, removing them. It is consistent with the future policy to make the environment easier and more transparent. This represents a clean domestic trade. About 40% of clothing shopping is taking place abroad. We need to get that store back here. If we're going to do that, these customs have to move on. They do not even return that much into the state fund. So, at the highest. The secretary of finance has the support of a bright future in this great and important work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u45	Mr. President. I'd like to draw attention to the fact that at a party conference with the left green some time ago, a mutual support for the legitimate salary requirements of the labor movement was especially needed to increase the rates of those in the lowest salary. The protocol is now faced with a vote for a strike-off, and if all seems to be done, the first strike is April 10th. If you don't get a deal, there'll be a continuous stop at work on 26 May. This is certainly a critical time, for there is no small issue for the people who are on the lowest salary to perform a strike operation. You ask yourself, " What is the government doing in an effort to meet these people in the country to improve their benefits? ' What has she done? It has increased the food tax, reduced the fiscal tax, and is looking at changes in the tax system for the better. Hv. A panel president of the Agency recently stated that the greatest correction that has been made is now being made, the most wonderful. [[Up front.]] Does she live up to her name? [[Up front.]] I have not seen a wave of rejoicing in society and that this will benefit the people who really need it. [[Up front.]] There, the State is still on another trip to skimming with the tax money rather than identifying the group that really needed help. What are some of the improvements in housing? This government has had two years, and there is nothing yet to be said about it. It's a disgrace. And what is the current government looking at? [[The president calls.]] Yes, increasing the cash markets. Just what low-payers and the public in the country have been waiting for. I think people should pull up their pants, be ashamed, and be not boasting about things for which there is no reason. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u46	A respectable president. Icelandic society severely limits international standards on gender equality, and we have set clear goals for continuing work in that area. Among the largest challenges in this field is job fairness, both work and pay. Recently, my attention was drawn to the international work programme in the nursing homes of the country, which especially include women's employment sites, but it is probably a matter of offering only recruitment for 80% jobs. A respectable president. Would anyone think of this if there were mostly men at work? For example, in a large industry or a fishing industry? I allow myself to claim that it is not. After researching the matter, it seems to me that this arrangement has come to this point that after a crash, in some places an agreement was made to reduce the number of jobs and the shift arrangements changed accordingly. So you would think that it was now being returned and offering workers more work ratios, but the reality is that this organization seems to be spreading. Some new nursing homes are ensuing this shift program that makes people work less or they need to arrive more often at the workplace to reach a 100% employment ratio. To arrive more frequently at the workplace means that workers do not reach the scheduled rest days, travel and from work, and children's care will be replaced. The majority of workers in these work places are unskilled and are part of the majority of the most payable community and are offered 80% jobs. In these work areas, 80% of the workers are said to be sufficient for the individual, since the work is difficult and critical. Is the claim, then, that part - time work is actually 100% of the amount paid by 80%? At the same time, we seriously discuss shortening the workweek. The nursing homes in the country are doing a good job, but I think that now there is good reason for the budget, the manager and the manager of these households to pause and ask whether the arrangement is compatible with the objective of employment equality. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u47	A respectable president. An old man east of the country sometimes got up in the morning, listened to the radio, and said after the news: 'Well, now I don't understand Jósef Stalín.' That's how it was with me on Saturday. When I got up and opened the News magazine, I didn't understand Jósef Stalín. In fact, I'm more excited about election results than the polls, but this poll revealed that the Pirata Party, i.e. A class that teaches itself in organized crime enjoys a 30% vote for polls. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] Some people here are shocked by my words, but if pirate activity is not organized, I don't understand the word. Then I'm going to point out that this category has a relatively thin policy, but one of the policies is fighting corruption. It's really good and good, it's fine, but then it's really happening this weekend that Captain Pirata offers to combine all opposition both to the right and to the left with him, I don't know where some classes stand, whether they're on the right side of the Independence Party or on the left, but some are a little far to the right, it's supposed to unite everyone under the right- back-left-left-hand party. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] I hope this poll was only a small yellow card to my party, for example, and even to other classes, and that men take an honest stand on the council and vote for them, but do not sit by as is most common among this group. So I've come to an end. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u48	A respectable president. We now vote for a bill to legalize the mandatory insurance policy and the business of pension funds, the investment documents of pension funds, in the market of financiers. In the case of the committee, the decision was to make both adjustment and one physical correction or correction and one physical change. Like what? Councilmen are advised by the bill that pension funds be granted to invest in stocks sold in financial markets to match the stock market that has been taken up on a structured market. In cooperation with the Committee, the majority of the cohesion was limiting this to 5% of the clean stocks of these stocks, so this is mainly the change we are making this time. I thank the Committee and those involved in improving the matter for their help, hoping that the Council will give a good discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u49	A respectable president. I think it's right that I represent my vote here. I've been talking about 2nd. On this matter, and I believe this is a very dangerous situation. They're adding up the resources of pension to invest in unscheduled letters from 20% to 25%. What is discussed in the main topic of the bill is already within the source in this 20%, and in addition, pension funds have access to investments through partnerships. I believe that this is now going on a very dangerous path, and especially when it was said in the discussion that it was the community duty of pension funds to live under economic growth, so here people are confusing the work of pensions. I'm going to make a very clear about my vote. I say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u50	Mr. President. After the collapse of the financial system, the pension fund made an assessment of its activities. It showed that there would be a thorough review of the 36th paragraph. the law on a pension fund that concerns their investment clearances. It is shocking that this article is making changes without a review, but this case has been well conducted in the Committee. There have been changes towards caution, so I have decided to support this bill, but I think it's a good goal to give the pension funds extra money they need and that in small and medium-sized companies who need funding in their work. I have a specific advance, but I believe, after receiving information on how the case works, it's normal to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u51	Mr. President. I agree, and I agree with what you say. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son when he tells us that last weeks the polls in which the Piratars are measured to a degree and to a considerable extent a yellow card to the government, will be his. It is true, so I hope that other diplomats and ministers will respond to the yellow card that the nation is clearly giving to the administrative system. Pears have long been in 8% of Gallup surveys, i.e. We've had 8% of the voters' trust. I hope after this fluke, we may be in a 12% voter package, with the trust of 12% voters, but these are clearly messages that the management parties are supposed to take very seriously, this yellow card like that. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason put it so well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u52	V.E.G. President. First of all, thank you to the highest. Industrial and business secretary for participating in this discussion. I'd like to make it clear that the main point of my recent United States Conference report, which in itself confirms, unfortunately, most of the points being presented here have been said and held until the past few months and lost. In part, the review of the report shows that unless there is a particularly serious violation of competitive law, the store has not turned the crown's success efforts to the general public. Regarding not returning policy to the public, one head of the store observed that the explanation was that the store could not at its time in the crash took to heart all the decrease in the crown, i.e. the price it brought, and as a result, it's lost a considerable amount of money. The public in Iceland lost half their lives in the crash. Many people lost their life savings and possessions. The same public is now supposed to judge the store seven years later, paying off the alleged losses in the collapse. You wonder when it will be complete. On page 18. The 40th report of the Contestant Commission says, with Mr President's permission: The price for daylights has apparently gone up somewhat since 2011/2012, although the Icelandic Crown's gang has been getting stronger, but there should be another difference in allowing room for inflation. Thus, the increase in total daylight prices from the beginning of 2011 to the end of 2014 is approximately 10%. At the same time, the Icelandic king's gang was strengthened by about 55.7 Here's how we're taking action in the United States Contestant report on the President's permission: ▪ It is important for consumers to have the strength of a gang and the improved supply of a small sale through a lower price. The salary and the daily store need to review their business agreements competitively [...] It is important that consumers and organisations have their best interests in order to show companies at a daily market maintenance with all available resources. [...] Governments must be promoted for increased competition, including with the opening of the market and review of the competitive policies of agricultural and customs [...] The report says there is still a competition. The compression of ownership has increased. The largest business partner has 50% market share but more in the capital area. Two parties have a 70% market share belonging to the same party in part. There is a HHI constant that measures compression of the individual market markets and gives the following light: where there is little concordance on the market, the index is below 1,000 points. At a market where moderate compression is measured the HHI score is between 1,000 and 1800 points. In 2014, the HHI score was 3001 points national in Iceland and 3,500 points in the capital area. The report shows that the Contestant Commission intends to adopt a special administrative case, since provisions and stores have not been made in a way described in the 2012 Contestance Commission report. This has not been a miracle. It presents a so - called unexplained difference of prices, which most likely is the increase in the increase in the intensity of environmental products that have been observed during the period in question. This is serious news when we can realize that the largest market business has control over both commercial and commercial sales, even carnivores, and so on. Also, the results of the store are clearly seen when you see the profit of your own money. On page 18. 46 of the Agency's report shows that, according to information on the interest of registered daily repertoires, internationally, there is an average of 13% in Europe and about 11% in the United States. In Iceland it's 353/40%. I'd like to, in this first round, ask the highest. The minister of three questions: Do the secretary of the report suggest that the store has failed its role and that its trust is shown? Take care of the highest. Ministers are promoting the resources of the Contestance Commission and, as a result, taking on increased financial resources to secure consumer positions? Take care of the highest. Ministers employ necessary changes in competitive law, e.g. What about the market position and the position of the members of the opposite party?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson for calling attention to this important matter and starting this discussion. All of us realize that active competition is an enormously important factor for public interest as well as for the economy in general. Active competition contributes to the better efficiency of an enterprise that is less valuable and more valuable than a variety of products for us consumers. How important it is, then, that we create so much that in the business world a competitive culture and that we ensure that competitive laws are followed firmly, helping smaller partners to get into the market and to support innovation in the commercial world. Everything in the front also helps to increase economic growth. As per the proverbial case, a recent report from the Contestant Contestation Agency on the day-to-day competition was published, and I will make it my subject today. The day - to - day store refers to the store that sells daily products, products related to people's daily consumption needs, such as food and drinking products, hygiene and cosmetics. We know that there are few competitions and integrations in Icelandic employment, and the daily market has not been excluded. However, in the above report it is positive that there is an apparent reduction in day-to-day compression, at least for a short time, although it is also a fact that compression is still great. A positive trend, though, is that it is heading in the right direction. It is also the conclusion of the report, as a perfunctory possibility, that the rise in product prices is not explained merely by external circumstances. The price of imported products has not been reduced to match the value of gangs and prices abroad, but at the same time, the survival of the major shopping arrangements is good. This need to be further examined and the government and the store have to work on one thing to take a closer look at this information. I made it a subject of my speech at the Association of Shopping and Service last week that to continue the process of reducing the cost of goods and services, as was done earlier in the winter by deduction of public goods, which is very important and the need for activities for consumers, the store is extremely important to show that the decline is due to consumers. The same is true of other external factors, such as gang support and prices abroad. I trust the store very well in these areas and encourage it to explain the results of the price development report, taking into account the proposed points for the enterprises. Otherwise, I believe that consumer protection and awareness are about to change and will change further with technology. I can mention in the past that not long ago, I gave the new Strimlin Yellow for 2015, but it has to do with opening up an open supply of food prices in Iceland where the consumer can at any given time see where the cost is most practical and thus get direct financial support. In fact, in the coming years, I believe that many other things in the technological world will help us consumers. But it is not only the store and consumers that have to do their own business, we governments also have our responsibility. Although the removal of the tax was one of the biggest steps of the past few years to the general reduction in prices, additional factors need to be considered. One of the things was here for last night's inquiry class, the removal of customs on clothing and shoes that I believe are important to return home, the suitcase shop that takes place abroad on the exact clothing and shoes, and thus we could strengthen the way in Icelandic commerce and clothing. That's why I especially welcome the highest words. The secretary of finance and the revision that has begun at his office, in fact, felt that the income expected for the State would not eventually be so great because of the growth in business activities. The report contains several indications directly to the government on measures to reduce competitiveness in the present principle. I myself believe that here we owe a considerable amount of opportunity by reviewing competition barriers in agricultural and customs law. We should not be afraid of such tracks. As an example of a successful operation, we can mention competitive inhibitors that were removed from a vegetable market that has led to increased production, reduced retail prices, and increased consumption. I've got a few more things to do in my second talk, but I'm gonna do it until I can get it out of my head then. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u54	A respectable president. Thank you for taking this important matter into consideration. However, it is embarrassing to observe the discussions of the government, the candidate, and the prosecuting minister of the Independence Party, where they shoot at each other under a rose. This is normal, however, for while the above words are about important things, it is the most important activity. Hence, it is only natural for a senator to ask the greater question. Minister if he is willing to make additional contributions to the Contestant, for it is a real operation to contribute to the overwhelming lack of competitiveness in this market. The minister of the Independence Party has done the opposite, has cut down the budget for the Contestant Board, and has avoided answering the clear and simple question throughout his long discussion of the matter. On the other hand, a minister uses the opportunity, shoots a fixed shot at a convention member of the advance Party, and calls attention to the degree of inhibition of farms. The minister of the Independence Party is right about this, that is one of the factors listed in the Contestance Commission report. Therefore, there is reason to say whether the advance party is ready to disappear from the high-to-busy policy of farming, which, in fact, creates difficulties in today's competition, and reduces the benefits that consumers have there because it is not enough to talk about competition in a day's market, people must be prepared to do what is necessary, the forwarding party should drop from high-level policy, and the Independence party to contribute funds to the U.S.R.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A phrase to take this important matter on. I'd like to tap into a big one, but I still want to focus on one thing that's in there and about eating. I agree with those here who have spoken, it's very interesting to find that we do not enjoy this crown's funding and that these market-based elements, which turn hundreds of millions into income and change to their owners, i.e. The big ones, they don't see the advantage of lowering the food prices to us. Of course, we must not forget that the government groups raised a valuable tax. I just wanted to come in to what they say about eating. I think it is very important that we come to the conclusion regarding the return of the daily products on fresh products, especially meat products, as indicated in the report. It is unacceptable that products running out on the last day of sales are returned, even discarded, and not used for those needing it. Restaurants, or others, could use them, but this great waste will lead us to pay a much higher price for the goods. There's certainly a group at Environment and Resource Minister to be involved in this, but it would also be interesting to know the minister's position on these objects. Here, the Contestance Commission, on the last page of the report, speaks of reviewing the due rights agreement so that the day product store is encouraged to get goods out. [[The president calls.]] How does a minister feel about that, and on the other hand, giving an exception from Article 15. A competitive song?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u56	A respectable president. I thank you for this fine discussion and voter for calling attention to the case that he has actually done very well in the Assembly Hall. All I want to do is establish this report and measures that governments could take in which the Contestant Commission directly proposes to promote agricultural competition. I feel like we could discuss more in the councilroom. I think it's a very good thing for the Contestant, it's got some good tips, so I'm directed to the government to examine this particular aspect specifically. Here is a word - for - word example, which says with permission of the president: The 'Environment of agricultural competition' shows that the growth of agricultural competition strengthens the relevant article and also benefits consumers. That is an example. ▪ Following the unregistered consultation with the production and distribution of vegetables in 2001◯ - now all of us remember the national pollutant authorities protested to agri-gricultural minister that the competition of a plant market would be removed. The government was appointed, fell from the market jammering preventatives at the level of retail, but preferted to support the national products at the level of retail... It had a very positive effect, as we know. Inbound production increased, small prices dropped, and consumption increased. These changes improved the interests of both consumers and plant manufacturers. This is a good example, but I don't quite understand why we're not ready to take bigger and more steps in this regard. In the next chapter, they are competitive in the milk industry. The market situation is not satisfying. I don't really know exactly who it is, I don't think it's for farmers or consumers. It's much better for the producers to see how all of this is built up. [[The president calls.]] I think we should look at the Contestant Board's suggestions only when we discuss these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u57	Mr. President. A few years ago, it was about 2,000 years ago, I worked for the then Contestant Organization to work on a project to set up a financial and administrative network report. It made it clear what kind of towers were in that small selling market. Well, in general, there's something we all know, but there's a black man out there who looks like a lowlife in the white. And she looked really bad. We also naturally saw that in those years the vegetable farmers and the oil companies were consulted - but what are the laws? The penalty is so great that consulting is worth it. They get away with it because the cost is so low that it pays to communicate. Even if people do not have a formal talk, as they have been, they will always be in such a small market, with few parties in a simple market, with people who know their trades and plays, and then there may be a silent agreement. It is not necessarily necessary to sit down and decide to have illegal consultations. In the oil market, for example, the price is very similar in all places; it moves up and down as well. Today, the world market price for oil is at the minimum, at least. The last decade and more. Oil prices in Iceland have dropped, that's right, but very little, so we actually see it. You obviously need to do something different than make this cost more money for the companies, don't you? You ask yourself: " Why is it not a matter of penalties if it has been demonstrated that men have deliberately violated laws and in consultation? There's something to think about. But that would not be enough, it would also be necessary to take a collective stand on this category, and it is a large amount of advice that can be taken. [[The president calls.]] I think we should listen to what we're listening to. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's jealousy in this category, since in the final analysis, this competition between consumers and consumers is a source of protection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u58	V.E.G. President. It will improve all consumers if real and active competition is on the market. In Iceland, however, we do not enjoy much competition, nor do we seem to be, but we must talk about few competition in this context because of the much compression that has taken place on the market during the past few years. For example, a recent report by the Contestant Commission shows that there is evidence that compression is gradual or temporary. The report also shows that there is still considerable compression and that there is a need to respond, to the benefits of the consumers of the country. Sadly, for a long time, when positive and outside circumstances should lead to a reduction in prices, the reduction does not result in consumers. The latest examples we've seen in these topics include a small contribution to various currency, a decrease in the top level of merit tax taxes, and the removal of tax dollars. In all too many cases, it has not paid off to the consumers of the country. However, when changes occur in various costs that may lead to an increase, this increase often has a rapid effect on consumer pockets. All too often, we hear reports of heavy dropouts in the country; thus, any reduced products cannot be reduced at the same time. A second factor is that when some rise occurs, the supply seems rarely to be good. It's quite an amazing coincidence. Admittedly, consumers'awakening has increased. We have often heard people talk about these factors and point them out on public sites if they feel that a pot is broken in these matters, but is it not necessary to improve monitoring in these matters, for the benefit of the country's households? We hear too often reports that it seems that the market cannot take care of it itself. [[The president calls.]] There are too many examples of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u59	A respectable president. The issue of the Contestant Board provides guidelines for competitors and the government. Since we are associated with governments, we do well to consider what we can do to improve the interests of consumers and increase the cost of money. In many cases, governments have failed to take into account the recommendation of the Contestant Board, recommendations that have turned to government conditions for competition and the use of competition in most areas, including agriculture, so that comparable rules for competition in the market as well as in other areas. The recommendation has also been to minimise the marketing interruptions of access, i.e. In the form of import protection. It will be of little value for governments and thus for senators to criticize the price of food if the same ones are not prepared to take action that is in the process of promoting competition. Today, customs of foods, customs that are not for protection, 2 billion in the state's funds. There's a magma and a margarita. I'm here with a clear, respectable president, over products we don't produce in the country, e.g. parmesanost, where there is a 30% price tag, and a body weight amplation of 430K. During the parmah channel, there are 30% prices and 447 pliers. A respectable president. This needs to be changed, and it has a chance for members of the council. So I'm going to be especially happy that today a newspaper quoted at the top. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson's son, that he intends to take the customs system for overall consideration for the benefit of the people of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u60	A respectable president. I'd like to continue with what I was talking about earlier, i.e. This report, and go to the point where shops other than these three major shopping companies have been given a much lower rate by suppliers. Of course, we know that this means that the little shops are before not having normal competition in the grocery market. It's very serious, and I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers because I cannot find the place in the report how the discount development has been from supplying to large shopping institutions and from memory since the release of the last report. The report also says that it is important that consumers and organisations who have their best interests in order to show companies at a daily market. I feel that this should be the main concern of the surveillance program, and we, as consumers may be able to limit, only write articles and let us hear in some way, but it is our chief concern that makes the book and provides funds in certain places to do what is needed. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if she's ready to raise the money for the Contestance Monitoring. There, 23 employees are employed, but the director feels that there are approximately 30 that the surveillance can be done well. This has only been a matter of customs, and I feel that we need to look to the source of the product, animal protection. We set a burdensome rule on the Icelandic protection laws, more detailed than the EU, and then I ask the Minister: Is it ready to say that the import should at least meet the same requirements or that agricultural products from abroad do not meet Icelandic regulations? We can't both skip and hold. Although we all want to lower prices, we cannot allow it to cost anything. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u61	A respectable president. I just want to point out that before I begin to talk about the prices that I find of enormous importance, the Contestance Control is a very important organization when it comes to making sure that there is a market competition and that the competitive barriers are out of the way. That's 23 employees there. This isn't a big institution, and I think it's important to promote the Contestant Board. It comes back, that's just a matter of principle. Price marks are very important because there is no such thing as the ESPA today but only consumers do business control by rejecting products if they feel that the price is too high or they buy it if they agree with the price. It would work if the market was perfect. For example, it is very special to be in the departments of departments of departments of departments of departments and to see kilo prices on all products, but it's quite hipshaps. For example, a person stands in his hand and sees the weight price, but he cannot weigh the product or see the cost of it himself. This isn't meant to increase your awareness, and I think all you have to do is skunk about these matters. It's supposed to be clear how much things cost. It was only a normal step to stop the forbidden markings on various meat products, to avoid being marked in stores, where there are local standards, such as cools and freezers, that the prices on the shelf order and some scans. I don't know if this operation has worked and if consumers have somehow lost their sense of merit when it comes to these products. I don't feel comfortable, so I'll talk for myself. I want to know how much the chicken costs, not necessarily the weight price. [[The president calls.]] The price markings would need to be examined further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u62	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion that's been very good. There are two things I especially want to go over here, I'm celebrating the highest. A minister earlier said that further examination would be made of the reasons why the price has increased beyond, for example, success development. As for the agricultural debate, which is traditional, I agree that, of course, we need to reevaluate the system we live in. But we can't reevaluate it on our own, we have to do it with a mutual agreement with the European Union, I know that there's a discussion going on, so that we can have tax benefits, in turn, against what we allow ourselves to do. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir says that we need to be careful about the agricultural products we bring in. We're not supposed to import the worst, we're supposed to import the best. It is also interesting. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir called attention from the food rations in the SEC report. I especially welcome the reactions that have been heard from the store in this regard, would like to handle it, and even reduce the price of a product that is at risk of damage before it does. The lack of competition in the dairy industry has led to two factors, the fact that farmers and consumers have gained more money than most of the time they have been living in. The other end of the money, worse, is that this company has overstepped little competitors. The report says on page 18. 6, with President's permission: In that case, the European Parliament's Governing Body urges the Commission to work hard on monitoring and to put an effort to improve the competitiveness of the day-to-day market. It helps, for example. little that governments criticize food prices if they themselves are not prepared to take action that has fallen to promote competition. [[The president calls.]] Then I have to say, despite the fact that my time has been over, that consumers should, of course, come together as well. In recent years, Eastern areas have been gathered with less cause than high prices. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u63	A respectable president. I reiterate my gratitude for this conversation, which has been very good and informative. I would also like to assume that the report of the Contestant Board, which is the foundation for the discussion, is a very important help. It is very important that the discussion of how we can promote competition, improve the interests of consumers as well as the interests of the store which I clearly consider to be a contributing factor, improve this discussion, and lead to improvements in this field will always be best when it is started to establish good information, and this report is included in it. There are a few things. Hv. A senator asked if I felt that the report indicated that the store had failed. No, I don't think so. But I told earlier in my speech that I believe that the store and the government should come together and explain the differences. If it does not return to consumers, we need to clarify it. I'm asked if I'm going to promote the Contestance Board and put on extra budgets. It's not true what was said in the case of the day. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, that budget for the Contestant has been cut down to a great degree. On the contrary, it is one of the few institutions that I hear that have been given increased authority in recent years. At the latest, whether or not I intend to use the law of the marketing position and of the other things, I would just like to suggest that we have exactly the same legislation as in any other country, so I'm not sure it's against legislation. Rather, we need to look at this interaction. I agree with what has been said about the eating industry and find it interesting to examine. Then I'd also like to mention one last thing, and it'll be exciting to watch the trend if it goes that way that big, foreign, new people come into this market. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is important and will be interesting to see how this article will affect both products and competition. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u64	Before we go any further, the president would like to mention, and refer to the recommendation of what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjölm Bjarnason's son in his discussion with the Senate's team on the program as he turned aside to the name of the party of Pirata, the president believes that the words that fell there were impervious. Whatever the opinion. Since members of Congress may have been members of the political party, in this case a political party of Porta, members of the party took a democratic commission in their time to voters and have also made a vow to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u65	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A president for the words he made just before. This further underscores the wisdom that we have the highest quality. The president has often shown himself. I come here, among other things, to thank the highest. At the beginning of this month, the president agreed to request the four presidents of the House of Congress to send a message to the Government Accounting Research Centre asking for the Agency's assessment of the ideas presented in the bill on the following schedule. There is an example that when the government proposes a great change in religion of certain institutions to evaluate them on the basis of the Kingdom Accounts and their practicality and benefits and potential defects. At that, they fell to the highest level. President and this is now at Government Accounting. Therefore, in the utmost kindness, I want it to be directed to the highest level. President that the following case will be postponed and be asked to take it on schedule until the state reexamination assessment is held.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u66	For this reason, the president would like to state the request. A senator referred to a meeting of the presiding committee. In that light of certain doubts after examining the matter, the request was fully compatible with the legal structure of Kingdom Accounting. Nevertheless, it was the decision of the president and his proposal, which was then adopted after several discussions had been asked, that this case would go to a State Accounting survey that would take its stand on the issue in the way it approached its subject. The president wants to court that he has certain doubts about how this is fully in harmony with the Law code on the operation of Kingdom Review.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u67	But he's making a decision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u68	But the president, on the other hand, would like the occasion. A senator made this question clear that, of course, the matter will be discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee when it has been referred to, and then the material discussion will be presented. A senator has made a subject for publicity. Since the case is fully met by the president, there is no need to wait on this discussion further. The matter was presented at the end of the last month, so it has been before members of Congress for a long time, who have had a very good chance to learn about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u69	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with what's being said. paritaprevir Snoops Skarphéðinsson's son as far as the European Development Agency is concerned, it is best to establish the conclusion of the President for the first and second, the Directorate of Government Review of Ministers in order for all the grounds to be established when the matter is being discussed here. Of course, this is the case with a change of faith that needs to be discussed on the basis of adequateness. As far as I can see, then, we're here on one more trip to the conference for a discussion without having sufficient grounds to be scheduled for the subject. I pray to the highest degree. The President to reexamine the meeting in this respect and to postpone a discussion on this part of the program until it is established whether or not there is a normal basis and where the review of The Kingdom Review is made according to the request of the management stand. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u70	A respectable president. First, I want to express my joy in the highest. The president should be absolutely careful that it is natural to turn aside from the names of political movements at the General or to represent the General Assembly. It's good to keep the wrong impressions on their names not to pass away, and we're all here with democratic authority. Then I'll go somewhere else. I feel that there is no need to increase the respect of the council and to contribute to the development of the council on the basis of information and professionalism. We've got some administrative adjustments here. Many of us sitting at a council may not fully see the evidence for these administrative changes and have agreed to ask the Government's review of a particular assessment, an assessment of these planned changes. I like to think it's a good thing and better for all the handling of this matter and for the council up to our first answer to state reexamination before discussing this matter here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u71	A respectable president. I agree with them. Councilmen here have spoken. Not only has the Government's decision been made but it's also having nine o'clock. The members of Parliament submitted a request for more information on this matter, which, of course, needs to be answered before we discuss it at the council. These include the need to consider a significant increase in the experience in the present system and also the possibility that peer work is being done by the OECD 2016 Development Committee. We have raised questions about whether it is time to discuss this bill while all these questions remain unsatisfied, both as presented in the report request and also in the issue we send to the State Research. There are probably many important issues available during the council. Why, then, discuss a subject that is not yet prepared? I mention again the decrees of our chairman of the administrations of anti - held parties, which are not allowed to be planned until after Easter, because the matter is so urgent to discuss that is neglected. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u72	A respectable president. There is a clear fault with the bill to be discussed below, that there is a lack in the analysis of the changes made in the 2008 development programme, and the results have not been made. When, for that reason, it is clear that it is normal to ask for a serious consideration before continuing to do so. It is a little strange to change a regime when the last changes have actually been made for good or bad. That is why I feel lonely to postpone this discussion. I also reiterate that this is a prepared matter for Congress, which the four presidents of the six classes at the Council have proposed, and would be very normal to set up here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u73	V.E.G. President. I believe that the matter presented here is fully available for the treatment of Congress. There are differing opinions about the proposals presented there, and this is our place in the council both here and in the State Department, to discuss evidence and to counterably the changes presented. Of course, in that treatment, comments may be made that some things need to be considered more carefully, and of course they will. The requirement presented here that the matter should not be discussed at the council until some administrative committee has taken place on the grounds of a State Accounting investigation. It is entirely absurd for us sitting in this hall to listen to the four cabinet ministers of the last government coming and speaking of the fact that it is not possible to provide a bill to change institutions for the government's sake in any way differently than to have a prior assessment by the State Accounting Board. [[The president calls.]] Of course, it is unknown to me that there is a suggestion before a matter is discussed at the council. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u74	V.E.G. President. I come up here to agree with what has been said in these topics, and especially with the letter written by the presiding committee yesterday for the National Review Committee. It's very important. When you read the bill, for example, in the case of personnel, it seems to me that the 2008 finance Department's manual does not follow that of the institutions. In other words, it seems to me that this is a striped method of the house, and I watch here at the highest level. Foreign Minister of the topic, and who made it up at the Department of Employment when creating a bill on the unity of the Institute of Veterans and the Oceanographic Institute, which is with us on the Committee, but has hardly been discussed, which speaks of breaking up all the employees and the rules that the Ministry of finance has taken. [[Is there an election at Sammo's?]] Looks like the same thing happens here when you read the personnel section. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'd like to add that I think it's very important to get the President's opinion of these factors as well as the other ones that have been approved. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u75	A respectable president. I wondered, " What is so intense about the Minister in this matter that he has to take this matter into consideration now that the request here has been granted and has come to a certain direction? ' I can't think that's good government. I also find it quite remarkable that the independents create a new institution, a Institute of Education, and go into the Ministry. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is going to create a new local Ministry. What exactly is with the minister of this government? Why do they need to draw everything into their hearts? Shall we take in the Roadmaker? Why not? Let's put it in context. Let's take it out and take the Vega, the police, the Land Hospital. Why can't we do that? Who says these institutions are different? A respectable president. I feel that professional work should be out of the Department, it should not be drawn into it. I think it's the best. Minister of Foreign Affairs is too quick here, because here we have a case that needs a great deal... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u76	A respectable president. I can't quite figure it out. We're here to discuss a case that has been decided to handle the administrative process, which is about to begin at Government Accounting. Why is this rush? Why can't this matter wait? Meanwhile, we can discuss the matter that we have considered, which turns to the government's possession wish to have a national agreement for the European Union application. I would like to have some better explanations. It's a question of how we use the council here. All of us here would like to be able to do our job well. The more information we receive, the easier it is to make good decisions. Why can't we wait for that information and then proceed with it? It's totally incomprehensible to me, and I don't think this is a good practice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u77	Mr. President. There is a reason for this request. Chairmans of the House of Governments. For years, a regional review has had strong instructions on a specific procedure on the part of the administration. She has made it very clear that she wants observation and action to be separated. It's going against it here. Hence, it is perfectly normal for the government to determine what it is that State Accounting magazine's assessment of what it means, what it means, and whether it brings benefits and whether it is the right course for humans. For a recommendation of the highest magnitude. In my mind, it is written all the time, and he is the great Judge. V.E.G. The president determined that the matter would be arranged to follow this course. It doesn't matter if it's the highest. Now the president has some doubts about that matter. It can be the highest. The president was just talking in private about what. paritaprevir Einar K. Guðfinnsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u78	The president now does more than discuss the matter. A senator about his doubts. The president explained that when this matter was discussed in the field of the prime committee twice, he realized his doubts about this matter that it was so growing that it was fully compatible with the legislation on the work of the Government Accounting Committee. Nevertheless, the president concluded that in spite of this, the matter was going to be carried out on Government Accounting and Government Accounting, they took their stand on the issue in the way they approached the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u79	Mr. President. I am happy that a government accountant received the letter and then was able to evaluate for himself whether it is normal to grant this request. I also intend to agree with what has been presented here that a request for a report has also been submitted. Hv. paritaprevir The Independence Party, the Birgir son of an Ármannsson, was here teaching us how to handle matters at the council. I can, in a sense, agree with his words, but I would also like to point out that here we are repeatedly receiving indiscretions, which are primarily involved in increasing the reign of the government. This is an open warrant for allowing counsellors to decide where agencies should be located.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u80	Not in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u81	No, but it's been done here repeatedly. It has been proposed not to be a professional approach but only an arbitrary gesture, and in this respect, there is a full reason for the opposition to a much better assessment than there is in the current bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u82	V.E.G. President. We've got a case for you at the General Assembly. The plan is to begin the 1st. of the matter where there is room for debate. Then the matter goes to a committee, where it develops a physical opinion based on all the viewpoints and comments expressed by members of the Parliament. You may have differing opinions on this matter, but bearing in mind that it can't be considered until it's taken into consideration by the Court's audition, I think, is completely absurd and has no precedent in the history of Congress. I don't think it ever happened during the last term when countless changes were made in the Board of Directors, when countless times were made to make changes in the arrangement of the individual institutions, that there was a requirement for the Court's review of the matter. You can call for the information, arguments, and counterarguments available in the case of the case during the council, but the conduct of the government on this matter today is perfect act.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u83	A respectable president. This is where we're taking a speech program, and I want to say the word. paritaprevir The Birgir son of an Ármannsson who spoke earlier. This is a matter coming to the 1st. will visit the committee. It's going to be told. There will be visitors. It is yet to be discussed on the committee and discussed. Some adjustments may be involved. Then it comes to the 2nd. and then they can go back to the committee after that. This is perfect showliness on the side of the government. [[Up front.]] The government situation may be calling for committees and reviews of matters in general before the year 1. conducted at the council. [[For example: That has happened.]] This is a perfect display of subjection on the side of the government, and it is perfectly normal for this matter to be taken on the program. [[Up front.]] I look forward to hearing speeches. when opposers begin to discuss the matter later when this meeting session is over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u84	A respectable president. I don't like it when you talk down to me like the last time. A senator, in my opinion, was here. I have wondered, " I have not had a consultation or an opinion with the Council Committee now operating around the TSSI. ' If so, I find it very important. I have read the report of Þórir Guðmundsson as well as the Sigurbjörg of Sigurgeirsdóttir. They don't quite go together. I've also reviewed the DEC report at OECD, where it's not said we should take the course recommended by the Minister. However, it is directed to us that perhaps we should consider less countries and such. But only in the report by Guðmundsson Gudmundon, the latest one, found this to be the best way. A respectable president. I must now say that effective planning will not be high here, decision-making is moving further away and so on. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This can't be any improvement, like... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u85	President. That's exactly what happened at the highest point. A president earlier that the case has been ahead of us for some time, and we've been able to find out about it. That's exactly why most people here are in question, and almost all of them are lacking in the matter. We were nine senators who requested a report asking twenty-one questions. Our report by our request says: ▪ In view of estimates of major changes in Iceland's two - side development, which have included: In turn, Iceland's Development Agency will be put down, cr. The management bill of the material (579th case) is requested by the above information which is not clearly presented in comments to the bill. That's why I want to say that this bill is not available for discussion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u86	A respectable president. It may be unfair to adopt this under the president's meeting board, when both president and members of the Independence Party have declared it in their own way that they would be willing to discuss the issue we called earlier in the meeting that would be discussed, anywhere, and at any time, as long as they would like. But it is clearly the forwarding party that has one category here at the council agreeing to present this unpleasant issue on the agenda without having the opinion of the State Accounting. You must ask the highest. Foreign Minister: Who is afraid of the move so much to discuss the European affairs? Is it a matter of shyness with the move from Europe to the adventures and hierarchies that the pack has gone out with its shipments to abroad and with the public reproach it has brought on Iceland's reputation? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u87	V.E.G. President. The relief from the plague is noticed by some. The members of the Independence Party have become members of the government and administration. This letter was submitted to the request of the chairman of the House of Congress because we know the become the policy of this government. The first question, exactly, is how well these suggestions fall into the modern concept of a good administrative organization and development in Iceland's administration in recent years. I have to pray. Senators of understanding that we are here trying to stop it from being completely undermined by Icelandic government, but the advantages we've seen in this direction are too great for us to sit close to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u88	A respectable president. I reiterate that it is normal to make changes in the way suggested in this bill to have some material assessment of the success of the last changes made here in a tripolitic reconciliation in 2008. That's not in the way. At that time, there was wide agreement on change, including interference by the political administration of a developing research agency and some changes in production. Then, to ensure the arrival of all political elements to shape the focus on developing cohesion in 2012, it was rather impressed there. Then comes the bill from the highest. A minister without consultation with any group that basically changes this arrangement without investigating the impact of the 2008 change. I must be calling for a state Accounting... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u89	A respectable president. Sounds like there's a lot of senators in here calling for more information about the bill that's going to be discussed. I find it foolish to start a discussion that is not based on important information that needs to be there to discuss it. Is this not an ideal opportunity for the chairman of Congress to show how much he cares about democracy and how well the public is heard in the country and to discuss a matter that is urgent now on whether to keep national law on Europe?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u90	V.E.G. President. I'm going to step back a little bit more on what I said earlier in a financial manual for the union of the institutions, by permission of presidents: The aim of building new institutions on human resources to be united should be carefully considered at all levels of the process how their integration affects employees and what they produce. I'm waiting for the highest. President paying attention. It goes on to say: ▪ It is not enough to examine only what changes will be made to an appropriate agency, a state fund, the people of the ministry, or those who are in their presence. A respectable president. After reading the employee chapter and how it is to think about it, I allow myself to doubt that it can be done in a way that a minister thinks. A contract with the staff of the Development Agency is canceled, and it must come to a duel, just as has happened in all the institutions we've been uniting. Therefore, I feel that the financial agency's review of the cost of the bill is not good enough and that it requires more attention. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u91	A respectable president. International Development Cooperation is one of the main foreign policy of Iceland, and one of the largest cases the Ministry does. It is necessary, both for us Icelanders and for those in need of help, that the work is in the most reliable and efficient direction possible at any given time. From the very beginning, governments have worked hard to organize and shape the development programs, as well as to which the case is in a continuous review. This includes the first law of No. 20/1971 to help Iceland with developing countries, then law No. 43/1981, on the European Development Agency, and finally the current law No. 121/2008, of Iceland's international development team, with subsequent changes from 2012. International Development Cooperation is a group of paintings that were made up of the best cooperation between international and international partners, civil society, administrative organisations, cooperation countries, and international institutions. Because of the importance of the problem in the world and the high demand for maximum success, policy development and planning continues. With law No. 121/2008, of Iceland's international development partnerships, became a substantial change in the development of Iceland's development cooperation, as they were overall and covered all aspects of the work. It's not over-historic that a lot of positive things have happened from the law's sentence. These include increased cooperation and coordination of the work that the TSS is doing, as well as the Ministry of State. There has been a marked increase in the coordination of multinational activities over the past year with the development of a synonym for a series of international development cooperations of Iceland for four years at a time that the General Assembly has undergone a twofold discussion. Nevertheless, there is still considerable scope for improving the work, and it is our desire to maximise the success of the contributions made by Iceland to the seminary. Before Iceland became a member of the DaAC in 2013, a special assessment was made on the basis of Iceland's international development team. Among its points, it was found that it was important for the Icelandic government to evaluate the development and development systems based on the quality of success and effectiveness that would be ensured in terms of national small size. In view of this, at the end of 2013, I had an external expert, Þórir Guðmundsson, to identify the organization and the development community, the peacekeeping and humanitarian services of Iceland, with the consideration of making proposals for reforms, would be needed in his opinion. Þórir returned their report in July with various suggestions for improvement. In view of the indication from the DEC and the results of Þórir's analysis, a group of members of the Ministry and TheSSI were assigned to work with a plot to correct the law, which was the basis for the bill recommended here today. Now, I'm going to go back to the big changes the bill expects. The biggest change will be made to the Ministry of State. This is done by means of an arrangement in 2kret. The bill that measures that it is the Ministry that cares for international development cooperation, both multinational and bilateral, is the two - sided assistance that TheSSI has been able to provide so far. As a result, TheSSI is laid down in the film it is today, and the Ministry overrules all of the commitments of the Agency, as per temporary regulations I and III, in Article 11. The bill. There are many reasons for turning YSSI into the Ministry, but they are mostly of two major injuries. On the one hand, they point out that together development is a draw - up link between development and other foreign activities and on the other hand, the cohesion and efficiency. The logic is given in detailed comments by the bill, but I'm going to skim here on a big one. Moving TSSI into the Ministry ensures that all contact with foreign countries and developing institutions are in harmony and consistent with Iceland's foreign policy, as well as with what the Icelandic government uses, one voice of international evolutionary cooperation. In recent years and decades, international development teaming has changed dramatically, calling for a change in approach to development. We no longer handle specific assignments in designated areas but face global challenges that require interaction with developing and other foreign languages. It is enough to include the Ebola epidemic and the battle against climate change as an example of the challenges we face and demand a coordinated response on the foreign field. As far as cooperation and practicality are concerned, we all know that the Icelandic management department is small and small, where each employee has to care for a variety of tasks. Transferring TheSSI into the Ministry is simplified, preventing bifocals and coordinations from increasing. When all tasks are on one hand, the work can be improved, improving flexibility and coordination and prevention of policy overlaps and implementation. In addition, there is a reduction in successful management and management, which, in the long term, leads to increased efficiency, simple and more targeted organization, increases the likelihood that Iceland's objectives and priorities in international development cooperation will be achieved and provided for more efficient development cooperation. Not to be overlooked is the fact that in recent decades and decades, there has been a great deal of knowledge and experience in evolution, both within the TSSI and the Ministry. Together, this knowledge came together to the collective discussion of the seminary. The conduct of international and dual development teamwork will no longer be separated, but it will be worked and interconnected with Iceland's total policy in view. However, I would like to state that while organization, management, and monitoring of development cooperation are moving to the State Ministry, two-sided development cooperation in Iceland's cooperation countries will be carried out in the same way as has been done. THOSE has done a very good job in the field, so it has been noted and has been widely proved by independent reviews. Of course, we will also continue to take into account the best practice, international approval with efficient development cooperation and the great experience in Iceland in this area that has been gathering over the years. We stress that we continue to provide expertise in the field of development, which is important in not being lost, and at the same time we can offer the members of the Ministry and the SISSI increased opportunities for development. The Law bill covers the provision of temporary regulations from Article II, III, and IV in Article 11. The bill. The objective of this decision is to transfer to the Ministry when the Agency's activities arrive in Reykjavík or U.S. district offices abroad. So all of your employees will be engaged in the Ministry. First, the Second provisional principle suggests that the Ministry overrides all commitments due to the agreements of YESI. Under these conditions, the same thing happens. employment contracts of local staff contracts in district offices and employment contracts of temporary employees. This law includes the contracts that are in force for the year when TheSSI moves into the Ministry. Second, it is suggested by provisional Article III that the staff of your staff will be offered a job in the Ministry from next New Year's Eve. This law includes the staff of staff who are committed to the implementation of the law. If the bill became the law, they would be set up at the Ministry at next New Year's Eve. Third, Article IV suggests that a minister be authorized to take over the head of YSSI on the basis of Article 36. The staff song. The Executive Director is the only employee of the Agency who is appointed as an official according to Article 22. The staff contract and the transfer of the linked is based on their laws solely for the sake of their own information. As a result of this process, to secure employees working in a new or other institution, care must be taken to ensure that an employee is offered a comparable job to what he was before. If this is not done, the employee's right is to improve the form of the salary or pay for the notice as appropriate. As to whether a job is considered comparable, three things must be taken into consideration; a professional's dresser, tasks, and position. Of course, assessment is not simple, and it is important to give it a good time. It is proper to bear in mind in this context that the term "companyable activities" does not need to be understood as if an employee should go entirely to the same work as he had before. It is clear that during this change, the number of employees working in development cooperation at the Ministry will increase considerably. Such growth inevitably calls for an opinion of the employment change in the Ministry's development network with the aim of making the best use of the knowledge and skills of all employees. Another proposal in the bill focuses on the creation of a new development partner committee, as Article 3. The bill, which replaces both existing development providers, according to Article 3. 2.g. The law, as well as the teamwork of international development cooperation, as stated in Article 4. The law. Its role is to be a consultant in the policy-making of long-term international development activities and to monitor its implementation. It is suggested that the committee be organized, among other things, for five members of the council. From the discussions here at the General Assembly in relation to current legislation, it can be assumed that there is wide support to the view that the Council needs to have an immediate policy discussion on developing cohesion. Important though it has been, transnational agreements on the seminary and consultations with other stakeholders, such as the university community, the labour market parties, and members of the Community community, have been important. Experience has shown that in the current system of things, there are several main challenges. The work of the colleagues and of the development committees overlaps, and there is uncertainty, but it has not been resolved. The report by Dr. Guðmundsson Gudmundson concludes that because of the speciality of this sect, it is important that members of the Parliament have directed access to development teamwork. In view of this, it is suggested that one employee, a developing team member, rather than two, be hired by one, i.e. The team of co-operations on international development teamwork and a developing co-operation committee. According to this suggestion, the general members of a development committee are represented by representatives of the university community, at the labour market, and in civil groups, as well as by a chairman. Thus, the presence of the Generalis is guaranteed as far as possible without forming a special members of Congress. Then there is a proposal for a change in international development policy that will be submitted to the General Assembly in the form of a Council Directive every five years, as shown in Article 5. the bill, instead of a four - year development teamwork program. The Committee shall specify the proportion of the budget of national income to be used for development cooperation. The proposal is also made to bring together in one of the laws of the law that discuss contributions to global development, such as Article 6. The bill, which suggests that the government's policies on international development cooperation, should indicate the proportion of forward to global development cooperation by the interests of national income. Experience has shown that international cooperation, such as FAC, is taken into account by proportion. The implementation of the policy in an action programme reviewed every two years should then be considered. This change is submitted by the legislation to provide one document containing both policies and measures. The nature of the problem is long-term policy, but the plan of action requires more frequent reviews. It is therefore preferable to keep these two separate, end up with main lines of policy and long-term goals being set up in Iceland's international development team. An overview of how to achieve policy goals is provided in the Action Programme. Finally, proposals are made to change the law of the Icelandic Peace Guard and its participation in international peacekeeping, which includes measures for a peacekeeping project. These changes in action aim to meet the trends that have taken place in the international environment of the Peace Guard, the changing process, and the emphasis. Many might ask themselves, " Why are things that have worked well? ' Our goal is to make it simply more successful and to achieve even more results. It is in the best interests of everyone, both employees and economists, that the development network of Iceland is well organized and efficient and meets the rapidly growing international requirements for responsible management and policy in this area. The changes now being carried out are primarily on the direction of the development team. Their goal is to change to improve and strengthen the international development of Iceland. If the change is legal, I will assign to the staff who worked on the bill to continue working on organizational matters and other activities needed for the implementation of the changes and to make suggestions there. It will be both the Ministry and the TSSI staff that will participate in that work. A respectable president. I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u92	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister of prehistoric history, but he would like to address one particular question at this point. This is not made clear in general remarks to the bill, but in comments on Article 3. it is attributed to the importance of cross - political partnerships for the main objective of developing cooperation. As a result, I am surprised by the way the matter is being worked out. Why is the ultimate decision? Ministers not to cooperate with other councils on the preparation of this case and its suggestion? I'm just gonna tell you a story. When I was vice president of the 2008 State Department, we decided why. paritaprevir Bjarni son of Benediktsson, chairman of the Committee, that we would seek cooperation with the government on the case. I had many conferences with the head of the Agency and the left greens then in a position of government over that matter, we made all the changes the government would want to make on the bill, and it was agreed here at the General Assembly. Why, then, is it decided to break the transnational team of development by means of this bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u93	A respectable president. I don't think that the main aims of developing cohesion are to be broken down, and the main aims for the field policy, how to distribute money, and what course we should take about the projects we take. This is merely a change in management or administration. In fact, nothing else is being changed by the bill. The decision is based on the report made by the external authorities quoted above, from a so-called DAC committee and, of course, on the experience already established on the case. I would like to reiterate that many other suggestions are contained in the report that is primarily fundamental to these changes. I'm not gonna stand here and tell you how these things should be. It will be in the process if the progress I described earlier, the task force will continue and work on that change. Some may succeed, others may not. [[The president calls.]] But I don't agree that this is a deportation process that has been taking place in the past. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u94	A respectable president. V.E.G. To clarify this, a minister should recall that the main feature of our discussion here at 2007-2008 and that of the Commission was precisely about the structure of the development team and the political development of its administration. In this bill, the Agency is being adjusted not only by other classes of the Council but also by the political establishment to the Agency's administration. That's what I call to interrupt the political solidarity that has been at odds with political parties on the arrangements of these cases. That transverse solidarity was already at the height of its power. During 2012, a minister sat with me on a foreign matter committee when we made some adjustments in the affairs of the group. Thus, there are changes that have not been discussed with other political parties. It's a fundamental change in methodology. But the political environment has not been discussed. If they want to hold on to their tripolitic stand, they have to take the advice. This has not been done in this case, so the reconciliation of international development is terminated. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask a minister, why?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u95	A respectable president. The bill is based on, as noted earlier, the review made by an independent expert on this category. The fine expert was completely free of charge about the way he brought this matter up. The result is as follows: The decision was to provide a bill that would be in this direction without going in or making some changes in the main objectives of developing teamwork that have been idealistic. As we have seen, this is primarily a government change. The main aim of our work is political reconciliation, how we should work, how assignments should be handled in an effort to help, and to improve the lives of those less fortunate. If this administrative change becomes a political bitebone, I'll admit it's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u96	A respectable president. I'm having a bit of a hard time understanding this bill and the need for it. I think it's a little contradictory. The argument for the bill is well spoken of as a developing cohesion agency and is still to be put down. Why is that? There are several factors in reasoning with the bill, or in the report, about aspects of evolutionary cooperation that need to be good, but you cannot see any examples of how these things are not right now. Development partners are said to have changed and become more complex and need to be increased in developing cooperation. Is that not evidence of having them in just one institution rather than moving them into the Ministry? This is a bit strange and many questions arise. I'm gonna stick with one. The report says that by moving YSSI activities into the Ministry, all contact with foreign countries and institutions in the fields of development cooperation and harmony with Iceland's foreign policy is being achieved. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Has this ever been a failure? [[The president calls.]] Can a minister give an example of failure to do so, and what are they? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u97	A respectable president. This is primarily about seeing to it that everything we say in the global field of development - the expansion of the group that really speaks to the policy we put into focus. There's no way to say that there's a lot of conflict between those who speak in the field of Iceland, but, on the other hand, everybody sees, I think that if more people follow the same messages and work together to policy, to the future music, to the way we're going to get a certain project, as I mentioned earlier, the stronger we came out. It is very important that we make better use of the resources and energy available to all staff involved in development in Iceland, whether it's the DSI or the State Department. We simply want to make sure that there's no difference between who is delivering the message that Iceland has to deliver at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u98	A respectable president. It appears to me that I'm being tried to fix something that's not broken. There is already a convergence in the case of those who speak for development contracts and Iceland's foreign policy. It is revealed in the minister's answer that this has not been a problem. Then I don't think this point is a good reason we need to change this organization. I think there's a lot of things that can change to worse by taking this from the agency. I'd like to ask: Is it possible for developing cooperation to change, to be divided into multinational development cooperation and two - sided development partnerships - all of this is a pretty good argument for having the development team as far as it is, and as difficult as it is, in the institution, under the Ministry? Is that not how we deal with most complex subjects? Isn't that a class breaker of it? I mention road and transportation, marine research, and this - everything so extensive and complex that it is in a special institution. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Why not in this case?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u99	A respectable president. As shown here in my introduction, the objective of these laws is to improve order and simplify it at the same time, i.e. That the fine group of people working on evolution and working in the same direction, that we are sending messages. We must not forget that evolution and development are largely part of our foreign policy. This is the group of paintings that will probably get the most of it. This is the group of paintings we're most proud of, stressing. We simply believe that it is important, following the indications given in the report, that the good team working with such matters work clearly and in the same direction. Whether it is possible to point to a subject or to some event. A senator has mentioned, in fact, asked this for a certain example, but I don't feel that this is all that matters when we just watch that we're improving the cooperation and uniting these two groups that have worked on developing issues exactly to make sure that Iceland's foreign policy, no matter what its time, is through development cooperation and overall. That is what we want to emphasize. To answer, too, this is the way most people are going today to embrace the whole group of lawsuits. There are some outstanding examples of this, but the vast majority of countries that run evolutionary cooperation today are going that way. [[Up front.]] I want to add that we will continue to use the name at Iceida to draw it up and tell them at the same time that the YESI was working well. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u100	A respectable president. It can be said that the main reason for the change proposed in the bill is general reasoning on fewer units in the management system. But what I would like to ask is the highest. Minister to himself: Is it not possible, then, to submit the implementation of the development teamwork, which is in the State Department of State, to the development of the Agency so that the Ministry is primarily responsible for its policy and monitoring role, all of which are being carried out in the development community? One thing that I think is wrong with this suggestion is that it is being suggested that policy, implementation and expected monitoring be all on one hand. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Does he feel that this is an arrangement? Who else should monitor the development team if not the State Department? And if the Ministry of State itself has become a member of the case, how can the Ministry be self-monitoring?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u101	A respectable president. There were three ways that the author of the report, which we mostly build the bill, examined. One way was to move the whole operation into an institution, into the TSSI. His conclusion was in effect in line with earlier reports, that it would be better for the operation to enter the Ministry. So that was the suggestion we took to the council. What was the second question again? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u102	Checks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u103	Yes, surveillance. Today's surveillance program is such that, for example, within the TSSI, there is a special monitoring department, a surveillance center that reviews the work there. Not to be overlooked, however, is the fact that before this discussion began, there has been a matter of discussing a specific organization called The State's Accounting. Of course, the State Review is constantly taking out the activities of the YES and the Ministry. Recently, the Ministry has been examined. Of course, we will ensure that the monitoring of projects will continue to be very good. [[The president calls.]] And fortunately, the supervision that has been carried out in the past few years has been very good, and it has repeatedly been shown that the projects have passed all the facts. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u104	A respectable president. The policy, to import the development into the Ministry where the monitoring and policy are intended, remains contrary to the trends we have seen in Icelandic administration in recent years, which have precisely been referred to as a policy and monitoring role for advisers and non-advisability. Of course, it is not sufficient to refer to Government Accounting, which, of course, does not have the ability to maintain effective control. A return examination will allow the assessment at any time interval, either requested or unsolicited. It's not indiscriminate surveillance of every institution in the state, so I think it's a peculiar possibility that the surveillance should be in the same institution as the one involved. In view of this, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister because it's not clear enough in the bill, according to my opinion: Is it going to be divided within the Ministry in any way that the surveillance is elsewhere within the Ministry than the actual operation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u105	A respectable president. The development of countries with which we are happy to work and compare with us in the face of evolutionary issues has been the uniting of these factors in the budget. True, there are exceptions, but all is well; and the vast majority have been gone in that direction. For monitoring it is very important to maintain the good system that has already been established, for example, when it comes to the ESSI, that it is an independent surveillance provider that will review and monitor the activities of the Agency, take them out, and see how they have gone. It has completely changed the credibility of the Agency, has increased its credibility by being monitored in this way. Notice how things have worked out. So I strongly assume that we will have a checkup in a manner similar to what we've been through.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u106	Mr. President. This mission is the highest. Minister has begun to remind us of his journey to Brussels. Then he gave a letter, and didn't know what it was about. Now it looks like the highest. Ministers here provide a bill, but he has not given any particular reason why the adjustment proposed in the bill is needed. But I don't come up here to make a mistake at the highest level. Minister, I just have one very specific question. I noticed that the highest. In his speech, a minister said that this bill and the change it takes to bring down a development research agency are one of the hints of the DEC, the OECD development network. He further captured his opposition here. I have a DAC report here, and I'm going to ask the highest. Minister: Where in DEC's indications does this appear?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u107	A respectable president. I think that in the DA's report it is neither in line 3 nor 21 that the SISSI should be united into the Ministry, but in the comments made by the Icelandic government, it is encouraged to evaluate and review the activities we are running.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u108	Mr. President. The most interesting thing in DEC's indications is the fact that there is a significant increase in budgetary funds to the jury, that is written 2012, and all the indications that DaAC presents on this subject, nothing else. No comment is there that the chimney is sick, but it is complimentary. All indications of the OECD development network concern precisely that ahead there is a large increase in donations for development cooperation. V.E.G. Minister has now taken it back. What, then, is the need for change?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u109	A respectable president. In the pan-European work programme, an international development team of Iceland, in the context of Iceland's introduction to the European Development Committee of the Economic and Development Committee, was proposed to provide an assessment of the development and development of partnerships based on the guarantee of maximum success and effectiveness in regard to the smallness of the country. That's exactly what we did and what we went into. We went through the way we could answer these speculations, if I could call it that, tips, questions, suggestions, what they call it, in this fine assessment. In part, the results led to dealing with how we can achieve success, how we can improve efficiency, and how we can outlining the smallness of the country simply more fully use the limited Šrissora to which we have, so I'm going to crash now, the excuse, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u110	Mr. President. I think I and the highest. Ministers agree on at least one thing, and I think the whole body of Congress agrees that developing cooperation may be the most important thing in which the Icelandic state stands and possibly what we as a nation can be the most proud of. I'll agree with the highest. Minister, we need to do the best we can. That's exactly why I agree with the highest. Ministers that we need to have the greatest political solidarity on this matter. And that's what I'd like to say in all sincerity at the highest. Minister that if he had come to the government, if he had come to the Union, if he had come to the Foreign Affairs Committee and wanted to discuss this, I'd think he had not been on the way to a store. I think that men would have liked to sit down with him and discuss how to achieve the ultimate change. Minister, possibly subsequent to the Dena case, wanted to succeed. To make it perfectly clear, this bill is not entirely bad. Highlights from the bill, as shown in both discourses. A minister, as well as in its various aspects, is simply putting down a development community organization. Besides, it's the highest. Ministers also making certain adjustments, e.g. On the top of the successful teamwork committees, which, like the highest level, failed. Rather than being the product of the men who think in the Ministry, a minister may have developed a conflict within the foreign committees. That's where it came from. I agree with the highest. A minister ought to take it in some other way. And so do I completely agree that there are ways to explain what is being done in the law, but these are all details. The big thing in the bill, which, of course, is most surprising, is the vote that I want to say that the heart of developing cooperation, a developing organization. Now I think that's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, in effect, scraped his wits off what was supposed to be the core of a case. Minister by asking him earlier about the only argument as supreme. Minister has moved here for the development of the bill, i.e. Where's the binary, where's the misunderstanding, where's the conflict? V.E.G. Minister became quite lens; he said it perfectly clear that he did not know of any conflict, at least not major. He couldn't point out any overlap, so I say, in fact, I think, as sometimes happens, that after an answer. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son and the highest. A minister would, in effect, be able to say: " Let's take the next subject. Because the matter has fallen, in effect, that is the case. I also don't recall, however, that at any time in my time, a minister made a controversial bill that was neglected and so ill about information that the government's situation would have to prepare for the case by asking for a 21 - question report. What are some questions raised by the government? They involve all the issues involved, none of them involved anything that can be called secretives or minorities. These are questions such as: Is it likely that the change in putting down a development research agency can improve the quality of developing cohesion? There's nothing about it in the report with the bill. It is asked: Is this likely to save money? The report does not say. It is asked: Is quality likely to improve? Is it likely that it will contribute to innovation and innovation, which has indeed been at work in recent years? These are fundamental factors, and none of them are evident in the actual report. V.E.G. Minister reasoned, and I have to say, as it were. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson said in a sense without doing it, because the boy saw, or hadn't seen it. A senator, who knows manners, in effect said, "Do you know another, Chief Minister?" The minister's talk included the need to do this in order to prevent overlap, overlap with policy and implementation, reduce mismanagement, reduce double pain in both business and government. What does that say? A minister of his own? What is his judgment on how we have made it? V.E.G. A minister can have that, even if he occasionally walks through doors in a way that makes him feel like he could be careful, he is honest in his heart, and he says that even though the Agency did a good job, he does. V.E.G. By permission of the president, the minister says, on page 30. 8: THESSI has done a very good job in the field, so it is noted, and it has made many changes in independent assessments. What, then, is the purpose of changing a system that was changed in 2008? There is not enough experience on that system, and why would it not be better, before people take wild elephants into this room and break the glass all over, waiting for an assessment, and it's a state reexamination that makes an assessment of how it's done? Of course, the most important thing to me is, is it likely that this will reduce or improve the quality of the work we are trying to perform through development cooperation? There are many evidences that this can weaken them. I'm not going to make it fast, but it's just that even the true men who wrote the bill recognize the possibility because the report points out that it needs to be. to re-educate and have it available for the Ministry's employees because once the exchange of their successes, they will take on transport responsibilities, of course, it means that they will be able to deliver much less in those mails and jobs that are subject to developing cooperation than they have done today. Today, there has been a wealth of experience, so much that the report of the OECD 2012 Development Committee specifically says that there is something more desirable for the committee to cooperate with Iceland. But it is likely that when this change occurs, at least there is a possibility that I do not want to make it fast, it reduces the thickness of the foundation of the work. It is likely to be diluted anointed, so this can be said to lead to less quality of the ministry and of the ministry. However, there are no arguments in the report or in the talk at the highest level. Ministers that indicate the opposite. On the contrary, it is clear that the Agency does very good things. I want to, because I'm a little pissed off at the top. Minister for what I think is really a smuggling when he rides on the side of the DEC report into the council with a suggestion to submit a development community service, to show him that in this report, only in the results of that report, there are not only one places but five places on two pages of credit for Iceland, Iceland's contribution and not less the organization of this country. After reviewing the complete report, they will see that in all its chapters, the OECD development team is pointing to things that are going well in the organization itself. I would especially like to point out that in a section on planning and management, it is literally said in a very bloody translation I am here: there is a good cooperation between the Ministry of State and Developmental Cooperation and the staff of both institutions are very professional in their professions. In other words, an assessment has been made in Iceland and the status of the case, of the development of the Agency and the Ministry, which was performed when Iceland became a member of the Committee, and the result is: there is nothing wrong, the system is doing pretty well. It points to specific things that are especially successful, and then there is a red thread through the report that in view of the coming projects, in view of the activities that the Agency will receive with increased financial support, both the dividers and the figures that are present. The Agency estimates that there is 60:40 between the length and the two side. It needs to be examined. The organization and the development committee need to be examined for three different advantages, specifically stating that the Icelandic arrangement does not really depend on anything. But later it is noted that because of a certain increase in the ministry, among other things it is necessary to consider whether the current education and training are good enough. What happens next? There'll be a new government. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir made this clear and introduced with great joy, which I may not be teaching at Uncle Þórður, but was happy, when the first round of donations was taken down for development money, 1 billion, now it is now 2.3 billion: this is the first step. And now we know that the highest. Minister is on behalf of what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir to take the second step, and it was her goal to put down a developing organization. Unfortunately, even the Ministry of State, which I believe with long experience, is the best humanized office in the administrations, can't think of any argument in a paper suggesting the Supreme Court. Ministers who defend the bill or the main subject of the bill. Even the outstanding members of the Ministry of Good, both cowardly defenders of evil and good cause, cannot come up with the evidence because the conclusion of the matter is, of course, a matter of faith, a matter of dogma in this government to reduce the number of institutions, and it is necessary to be a developing controversive organization. I find that to be a very sad conclusion. Why would it have been right to take this matter slowly and wait on the bill and examine it? First of all, Mr. President, because it's important to get political solidarity on the subject. Second, because it is important to get the opinion of the institution most trusted by the Council, Government Accounting, whether it is right for the government to go in this way against all the Princes of State Reunion. She's been preaching it to every street since 1991 to make a complete separation between performance and policy and observation, and this princely step is being violated here. Third, because there is evidence leading to the conclusion of the DAC peer review that is supposed to exist in 2016. If she came to the conclusion that it was urgent and important to take that course as high as possible. A minister suggested I would be willing to consider very carefully supporting it. Today, however, no independent party has reached that conclusion. V.E.G. The minister was wrong when he publicly stated that all reports on this matter had reached that conclusion. That's wrong. It is wrong to argue that this was the result of the assessment performed by Oddsson the son of Oddd at the time. It is wrong to argue that it was the conclusion of the study that IgGelururn Gíslún, Ingibjörg of Gísladóttir, had performed at the time, just so that there are absolutely clear facts. And it's wrong at the highest. Minister when he allows himself to insist that the DEC report justified it in some way, which is the burden of his bill. Since its beginning, therefore, it has been absolutely clear that a minister has had an adverse cause, and he has resorted to misjudgment. It may be human, and it can be forgiven in the heat of the game, but it underscores the minor nature of the evidence. Mr. President. Again, I repeat that the government is ready to find a surface in any way that in some way could create political solidarity on developing cooperation. We've always tried that before. It was very successful when I was a minister of foreign affairs at the time, putting in a development team plan, developing a plan on how we were going to expand our budget, and it worked so well that all members of Congress were but one, that I remember, who paid it a vote, and even the council itself had a close and thorough plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u111	A respectable president. I thank a speaker for a hand-to-hand talk. I stand here to answer that I know that he has a relatively high knowledge of this series of languages. Interestingly, the report with the bill refers to the change to ensure that all contact with foreign countries and developing institutions are consistent and consistent with Iceland's foreign policy. Then, of course, you wonder: " Has a pot been broken as far as this is concerned? Is there an example of not being in a beat with Iceland's foreign policy in development as a team? I'd like to hear what you're talking about. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has that to say. The only thing I know about where some office has not been in line with Iceland's foreign policy is the President of Iceland, who in the first term went on his way, while the government may have gone other ways. So, shall we include the President's office in the State Department? That's a question. I find it remarkable in this case that it's as if developing cohesion is the most wonderful institution, all the assessments show it. Money is well used, and you wish it were done by every institution. Why, then, should we take that organization and put it in some uncertainty? Shouldn't we focus on other institutions, not on them? If things are going well, why are we doing this? I'd really like to ask you what. A senator into what I'm doing here regarding all contact with foreign countries and institutions, that it should be ensured that they are in harmony and consistent with Iceland's foreign policy. It wouldn't be in the report if it wasn't considered some sort of problem, I expect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u112	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for normal and logical questions. I don't think there is any need for the Presidential Department of State to enter the Red Sea because it seems, in fact, that the opposite is the case, that the Ministry of State has been admitted and made some kind of bait house for the President. That's another story. It's normal. A senator asks these questions. I'll take care of this too, just like other men in this discussion. When it comes to saying that there is a need to attack a change in order to ensure that Iceland speaks one voice, you cannot help but conclude that behind it there is some kind of opposition where someone, the expected development organization, spoke in ways other than foreign policy. I've never heard of it, and I think it's the highest. A minister who is expected to receive this question later today cannot suggest anything to do so. You might even say that this is where the report takes its place dangerously close to flirting with a developing research agency. I can, however, tell you what. A member of the Parliament that this institution has increased Iceland's husk, has improved the reputation of the State Department, and has brought a large amount of money out of Iceland. For example, the Agency has been funded to protect substantial amounts of money that other countries would like to spend on certain developing activities related to global warming. It was the Agency and her staff, not at the time, but at the time, her team that was able to receive, I remember that it was eventually close to 700 million. K. to contribute to Iceland's contribution to a certain work of geothermalism in East Africa. On the contrary, the voice of the State Ministry has been stirred by a development organization but has never spoken aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u113	A respectable president. I thought that was a good point. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir brought in today: Where did we really stop enforcing government agencies? Should Vega not be a member of the Ministry of Internal Affairs? Where are we going to draw that limit? It's a question of whether or not. A senator has an opinion of that. The report quotes a report of the development committee (DAC), as well as the fact that Iceland is being encouraged to explore a development team. But was this report suggested that a development research agency be submitted and its project be moved to the Ministry? This is not necessarily suggested, though it is intended to be considered in the development organization. I feel like there's something wrong with that. I know why. A senator whether it is available for a development team to make an assessment of Icelandic development cooperation in the coming years? Should we not wait for this assessment if it is coming?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u114	Mr. President. Exactly. Of course, we should wait for her, for the fact is that such a review has been made. It's on the OECD development team and it's due in 2016. If her conclusion was that she would be able to match the bill at the top. A minister would be that very strong. I'd listen to them because I'd pay a lot of attention to FAC. I have read many of its reports, and I have had discussions with and accept those who are in it. But it's not being done here. It should be noted that the original report, the milestone report by Þórir the son of Guðmundsson, did not anticipate this conclusion but merely collected it all into one place. And at some point, I think it is entirely possible for me to transfer all the multi-sided projects from the State Department to distribute power to the Development Agency. But it would be in opposition to some very strong government officials in the State Department who have always advised all advisers to do this, including me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u115	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a saying and a good speech. As we often benefit from listening to what we hear. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson, who is older than two winters here at the council, and especially when it comes to the foreign affairs and his extensive experience. I would like to ask the senator a question and, as it were, actually look into the source of his knowledge. This has only been shown in the discussion, both today and in the general discussion since the realization of the highest point. The minister of foreign affairs was to propose a proposal to submit the development community, that this discussion has already taken place. In his speech, he mentioned why. A senator claims that it would not have been suggested to put down a development community organization in the time of his predecessor or when he served as minister of foreign affairs. I'd like to ask him about it. It is now only 2008 that the work of the Development Agency has been modified and unveiled. Apparently, and it has been shown in the language of everyone and including the highest. Minister of state, it was with very good results, and the quality of the work has increased. What is the history of financing so that either the development of a research organization or increasing its independence can be more powerful?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u116	Mr. President. It is the very nature of the administration body, all hallsiders, to try to collect extra power. Whether the Ministry is small or large, we all find ministers. I'm afraid to claim that, but the oldest felt I can remember were in the government I was serving as environmental minister, i.e. range of 1993◯1995. That's the first feeling I've been aware of. Since then, several reports have been conducted, which have been combined until 2008, to have been made by government officials and many of them, I think all of them, followed by the fact that, of course, it was a very good idea to take this suit and transfer it into the Ministry. This was suggested by Davíð, the son of Oddsson, when he was a minister of foreign affairs. He had the case examined, reached the opposite conclusion, and thought it best to transfer the multi-time cooperation to the Development Agency. I was on it myself, I thought it was more logical and better than the other, and we had no particular discussion with me. The decision of Sverris, the Valgerður of Sverrisdóttir, arrived here with a council case that was very similar to that proposed to the council. I notice that the report, or the report, of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson states that the case arose. I didn't catch any days. It just wasn't much of a part of the foreign press, it was such a simple thing. That's why it disappeared. And now it's going to be the best. Minister of this and have no particular reason for it, these are because it's just an argument. It's different now. The person assigned to make the report comes from outside, but it's not totally neutral. It would have been better if someone else's perspective had been expressed too than that of a member of the Red Cross, a good and melancholy organization, but part of its development projects is financed by the Ministry, and this is not a convenient position. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure they're getting the angle, but that would have taken a little more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u117	A respectable president. Thank you. For a fine answer, a senator will come to my second question or question from the chairman's talk. It is the idea that he's expounding, in the name of a good administration and separateness of work and, on the other hand, monitoring would be more effective in carrying projects from the Ministry to the Developmental Cooperative Agency. I'd like to understand the senator correctly by his view and trust in the development network to handle a huge increase of projects, as the senator sounds to me. Takes it. A senator also does not depend on the importance of a marvelous burst into the palms of his hands and investigating funds for developing cooperation in general from what has now been established?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u118	I wouldn't trust the Agency completely under the current leadership. It is, in fact, very well led, and it can be said that her president is an outstanding official. He has led the Agency in this way, and indeed his predecessor too, in the opinion of a public accountant, it is a model organization. She'll always stay within the budget. So I believe that the adulation of the Agency's executive position would be completely equipped to take on such projects. It is natural to guess that the president of all Iceland has the greatest experience in this type of work. He has been in high positions in various foreign institutions, and his ability is reflected, among other things, in what I said in the opposite direction. A senator who has managed to raise money for Iceland has greatly added what we give here at the World Council. [[The president calls.]] However, because of this uncertainty, the Agency has had to hold hands and not accept money that might come from outside. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u119	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, son of his speech. I'd like to ask him, future minister of state, about the arrangements of this whole group of litigation. Now it's so I believe in myself a bit of the philosophy that if something isn't broken, there's no reason to fix it. Some of this bill is true. I wondered, " What exactly is the problem with the development community, as it is now, that there is reason to repair it? ' I'd like to ask you what. A member of that office who has reviewed in his talk that similar suggestions came into play on his table, i.e. To move a development research agency under the Ministry of State, and that he has rejected them proposals: Does he feel that he needs organizational adjustments in the setting of developing cooperation in this country? Does he believe that the evidence presented in this suggests that there is a simpler management, increased coordination, and something like this is really not relevant in this case, in which harmony is sufficient with the cooperation of the Development Agency and the Ministry of State? Or would he want to see any other changes made in the development process? Does he think the arrangement is the best part? That's kind of my question to ask. A senator, for the questions raised, including of me and what. A senator, at the request I mentioned earlier, matters. They focus on the reasons for the changes. It is also important for us who will work with this subject to consider: If adjustments are needed, what is the right way? That's why I'm asking. Senator: Is change needed in his opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u120	Mr. President. I don't think there's any particular change in the founding frame itself. It is said in particular that cooperation between the Agency and the Ministry of State is going well. It is stated that cooperation and cooperation are very successful. V.E.G. A minister could not, bicker, mention any case of double action, which in the past may be somewhat reluctant to include a report and not be able to support it. So I'd say the arrangement's pretty good. I can't say it's necessarily the best, but it's much better, I think, than what he suggests. It's good, it's productive, it's practical. At any rate, it has made soils that produce new things that other nations look for. Other much larger countries have come and talked to the State Ministry and the Development Organization to adopt and learn from them, for example, about the successful provinces of the United States. There are two things I would like to consider, which is minor. It's a political decision to divide money. I think there's going to be an increase in financial support for an independent organization. This was started in the time of the government that we both sat in and that had been determined by the financial frame adopted by the council, that would be much worse. I think it needs to be done. We're subs there. The other is this bix on the co-work board, which has, in effect, made the coming of the council to a place where the Senate was located, the excuse, Mr. President, has not led to much fertility on the part of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u121	A respectable president. End of story. The senator is not going to need any special changes, we are on the way. But he specifically mentions the arrival of the assembly and one of the items I left behind in the report by Guðmundsson Gudmundon, who leads to this bill and referred to it through the bill, it is important to have a minister nearby at the seminary. In view of the importance of ensuring a parapolitic partnership on developing cooperation, it may now be reasonable to work toward strengthening it, which does not necessarily involve more close ministers at any given time in the seminary. I'd like to ask you what. A senator and a former minister: How does he feel about that reasoning? Does he feel that there is a greater need for a closer minister at any given time in the affairs of development? It's not normal, like the rest of it. A senator said earlier, to examine more carefully the presence of the council? I don't really think that's solved by this bill. It would have been better to look all the way in and put a full panel in either developing or normal handling, that the Foreign Affairs Committee gave them even more space during their daily work at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u122	Mr. President. Yes, sir, faithful. The nature of man is that all employees and officials and all lawsuits would like to sit with the minister in their laps. They all want to be in the most close proximity to the minister each time. I think that this attitude and the clear wish that is expressed by a good news editor meets some because he himself stands firm, both on the soil of evolutionary cooperation, that is his job at the Red Cross. Naturally, then, he has such desires, and they are healthy. I felt that I was not lacking in the presence of others and that I was not too far away from this group of litigators, and I believe that it was the highest. Ministers have shown it, he has traveled to these countries, and that's fine, under pressure. But the neighborhood should be more like that. Senator, to be at the council. This is at times where there is a lack of interest in the group of languages and knowledge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u123	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill that includes the reduction of the European Development Agency for the present form and that it will be submitted to the State Department of State. As we have seen in history, a considerable effort has been made to achieve a parapolitic agreement on where to go in developing cooperation, but unfortunately, in recent years there has been a marked break in that reconciliation. I'd like to recall that the Parliament agreed on a development strategy with a single subsidiary but, otherwise, all agreed. Unfortunately, it has been the case in the past of the current government that since the approval of the synopsis and has cut down, so Iceland is still a long way from the goal we have set and reaching the goal of the United Nations that a certain percentage of GDP is running toward developing cooperation, or 0.7%. We are still far from that goal, and we do not move closer to it because the approved ones have not yet been fulfilled. I believed when the strategy was adopted by this one and others were involved, that by doing so, we were once again achieving a parapolitic agreement on developing cooperation, so I would like to first declare a great disappointment with the position that has developed. We do not travel closer to our goal, and the group of paintings has been cut down on the contrary. Councilmen from all categories. In some ways, I can then agree with that word. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason, who earlier pointed out in his discussion that it was also important to secure a transpolitic reconciliation about the organization. I told them earlier, in general, I had a policy that if things weren't broken, I wouldn't be much busy with them. But suppose we want to reexamine the development organization, I think it is only natural for us to ask ourselves critical questions about what is accomplished by uniting evolutionary cooperation under one hat. I have already pointed out and want to reiterate that I don't feel that there's enough evidence to combine all of this under one hat that Iceland talks in one voice, since I have not seen any examples of a lack of full harmony and lack of cooperation between the Ministry of State and a developing research agency as it is today. You feel almost like there's some reservation about reducing the number of public institutions, this is designed to reduce the number of public institutions, because you've been affected only by a good agreement between the Ministry and the agency on the other hand. There is certainly some general evidence that there is a lower risk of double acts, less need for communication between institutions, etc. But without an example of this, it cannot be viewed as a real argument. It is noted that this was primarily the trend in many other places, i.e. will bring on the local State Department development cooperation. In this way, it is very important that a foreign legal committee be very careful about your experience and evaluate these changes. This has been suggested in the Netherlands. It has recently developed a report that has not been determined to take note of warning of the operation under attack in the Netherlands, i.e. move a development organization in that country under the Ministry of State. However, a review of what has not been achieved to influence the change in policy was published there. All right. We also have a number of other examples from other countries, such as Sweden, which has a special agency around development, so we can review the evidence with and against it. We can also ask ourselves: " Why is it wrong to promote an institution under the Ministry? ' There we can have differing views. Some say that being close to a minister is important in securing political leadership on the case, but a distance from a minister can also enhance the agreement on policy and activities, creating a measure of stability between different governments. In this way, the Agency is independent and independent, as we all know as we do here, different from other public institutions. There will be quite a lot more changes to make in government trade than in so - called trade institutions, and after studying my operations, I can think about it. as much as the Ministry is concerned, the role of the Directorates of each Ministry is to be the executive, but the Ministry is more likely to have a policy and surveillance role. I'm putting a very large question mark on moving the construction part into the Ministry. I also wondered about a general staff conference at the Ministry. Now, it's something that I repeat that I need an opportunity to look into the commission, but how will the State Department's staff policy, based on a particular policy of progress and transportation and a certain record-breaking system fit an institution that has a different kind of personnel policy? These are questions that we need clear answers. There is another question that I wondered about. Of course, the development community has carried a lot of information on developing issues. I also present a question mark on how development information will be conducted when the Agency is in charge of the Ministry. It is a whole different source of information that passes by the councils, where political power is closer than that of the individual scientific institutions. We can say that they have more freedom in information, more space to share information with literature and other sources. I wondered what it'll be like with a development research agency if it's transferred to the State Department and the Ministry of State starts sending out the information. So, aren't we changing some of the Ministry's information? It is clear that I place a lot of question marks on these plans. I also wondered, " Is there no reason to wonder about the content of the material, i.e. the role of the Agency has been and is now intended to submit to the State Department. What is the role of the Development Agency? Yes, there is a two - side development team so that we, a prosperous state, with a prowess on every quality of life, can contribute to our most efficient and effective means of supporting poorer countries, supporting infrastructure, supporting birth support, building wells in order to increase human health, in order to increase prevention, to stand up for education, this is part of it. Are we not always being guided by the changes we make in the administration? They must serve the input. Based on the results of the development organization, the work we have been through has been successful. I mentioned, for example, the assignments in Malawi that I likely learned best, but they are also in other countries, e.g. Uganda. That work has been successfully measured in ways that impressed me. It is not just a matter of measuring how many men or women were sent to that State, not by counting a number of wells or by counting money, but by asking: Is the health status in the area improved after we started this assignment? Were other women born alive and survived the birth? Did malaria rates decrease in the area? These are the questions they are asking. This is the real success we see in our work. When we see that the results have only been pretty good on these projects, I must ask: "Why are we moving into planning changes if things work, if they're not broken as I said at the beginning? Is it intended, more dignified President, to change some of the inputs? Will we place other emphasis on developing cooperation by bringing it closer to political authority? Will we add to the emphasis, as some have toed, that the Icelandic company and industry are involved in developing cooperation in order to form through a geothermal project? It is the best of matters, but it is not a substitute for what we do in the two - sided development teamwork through the development community. There are also questions that we will need to know, especially here but also on the committee, whether we can visualize material changes in the content of the project we are dealing with. It must always be our goal that the project is okay and the film box is to serve the project, not the vice versa. I thought about it because I think the goal of the bill itself is extremely vague. We have the law to support the efforts of the government in developing countries to eliminate poverty and hunger, to promote sustainable development and all of this that is the best of matters, but I don't understand how the organizational changes should serve that purpose, and to ask for clear answers on that subject. I'd like to come to the entrance of the Generals only because it is discussed in the report laid to some extent by the son of Þórir Guðmundsson. That's what we had. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was a place of words earlier. If I recall correctly, the report will discuss that a special Senate committee will be elected to monitor and monitor development cooperation. In fact, I have always considered developing cooperation to be such a key factor in Iceland's foreign policy that one of the main parts of the State Department should be dealing with development cooperation and should do more of it than it does today. However, there might be another possibility if you believe that developing cooperation will be beyond the fact that it is rarely under discussion as a traditional Parliamentary matter and with a great deal of time. The Foreign Affairs Committee will go on the EEA business and so on. Then I wonder if the connection with the council doesn't seem enough that I can say should we take it all the way instead, because that's the point I feel most people would agree to explain and sharpen. So why don't we ask ourselves, " What exactly is the arrangement for foreign affairs at the council and perhaps in some way divide it? ' There have been times when we've been given up on a special European committee, we did it last week when we discussed various issues related to the European Union and the EEA Convention. Perhaps this is the way for a foreign - language committee to have more time for development, national security, and other aspects of the committee. However, it is not even in the bill; it is suggested some sort of hybrid proposal suggested to establish a developing teamwork committee, where there will be five members and also members who will be appointed in agreement with the labour market board, with a panel of university members, a U.S. National Association, and that it meets at least twice a year. I ask, then, What is the change? We do not strengthen the arrival of the Generals with two meetings a year. I'd think at first glance that it would make more sense, if we really looked at these matters at the council, that we'd make radical changes and change, as I mentioned earlier. It seems that this is not unnecessary. A respectable president. Finally, I would like to mention that any of us at the council have submitted a report request asking that we make up a total of 21 questions that I consider very important to us that we have a precise answer. The questions aim to provide further information and support for these changes that we do not fully see for our goals, including We request experience and comprehensive data on the exact way that the harmony is designed to improve efficiency and management. Information is requested on the availability of practicality, the basis for professional arguments and any objective experts if any have evaluated the current arrangements. It is also asked whether the Ministry simply considers other laws valid, as mentioned earlier in the talk at the highest level. Ministers, on development issues and on other issues, in view of the trend in the administration of the Commission, it has been to shift the project into institutions rather than the fact that there is a plan for monitoring and policy. Furthermore, the possibility of improvement in effectiveness and management by going the wrong way should be considered, i.e. bring further assignments from the Ministry of State to the Developmental Cooperation Agency, which was concluded by the last government, forward group and independent group, in accordance with the 2005 Regulation. In fact, it is news of this in the last book of the Developmental Cooperation Agency, where the six attempts have been taken in the past 20 years to bring down the development community of Iceland's research organization and deliver the work under the Ministry of State. It shows that Davíð, the son of Oddsson, was then the chief. Secretary of State, set up a Regulation where he suggested that the jury be fully transferred to the Developmental Research Institute, but it turned out that at that time the Ministry official refused to sign it, and the manager's replacement also refused, but the then ambassador was moved to confirm the Regulation by his signature, including the Regulation's valid administrative action. However, she was never followed. I think there's every reason to review this whole story at the moment. State Department. I see my time is up, and I can't go over the other ten questions that are in the report request, but it's clear that many questions are unsatisfied, more dignified president. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u124	President. I thank the senator for his speech. I hear in her language that we're in the same place with this bill, I don't understand any more than she understands why it needs to stick together something that's not broken, or why you have to do with something that's not broken. I understood that it was her opinion of the bill. Hv. A candidate in his talk specifically mentioned information and the information we now receive about developing cooperation, which I found interesting. I'm not going to say that information may be the best information from these institutions, but at regular intervals, we will always receive detailed information from the Development Agency. I think they're useful. Does the senator feel like it might be if the agency goes into the Ministry that the information is changing? When I think about it, it might also be unnatural that the State Department of State would give specific information about this case and not about anyone else. Is there a danger, considering why. The senator's getting the information out if it goes into the Ministry?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u125	A respectable president. This is one of the things I rolled up here in connection with the bill, in view of the fact that public agencies are tailored only to different forms of advice, their frame is about a bit different. When we examine institutions on the topic fields of other schemes, we do not expect exactly the same presentation of material from, for example. Iceland's Museum of Art and Education and Culture. On the one hand, we have administrative institutions for recruitment and, on the other, professionals. I simply find it odd to place in this manner a professional agency in the Ministry, a trade agency that is therefore a distant government power, and thus has more leeway as it has to form a new publication of the World magazine. There are news reports of global development and not just of what Iceland is doing but of what is happening in the United Nations and what is the latest in a global discussion of developing cooperation. It is presented in a way that differs from what is being done in the scheme at least. has been my experience. Now I understand that the Ministry is all becoming more informal in the information supply of their Facebook websites and who can show up about it, but I don't think that's exactly the role of the management institutions to have the exact information of that kind. Rather, it is the role of professionals who in some way enjoy being away from the political authority and who are able to set matters up in a slightly different way. So I'm rolling it up. This may be a small point in this big case, but I'm referring to it because the website has been, in fact, the main information on developing issues in the Icelandic world and the Agency has a regular development issue on its website.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u126	President. You see, that's what I think, in big matters like these, there are other small things that really matter, and we all need to think about them before we make a decision. I would feel that it would be a very dramatic decision if this was the case with a decision to put down a developing research agency. Hv. A senator has discussed the arrival of the council, and I'm telling you, as it is, this proposal on the bill that five members of the Parliament are supposed to go to a development committee have struck me a bit. There is no record of how they are to be chosen, there should be only five members of the council. Now there are six members of Congress, aren't I right, a respectable president? How should these five senators be chosen? The report then says that this should be done because members of the Parliament need to be more alert to developing cooperation. So can we not just expect that we will need to put members of the bank as well? Don't we have to keep a closer eye on the banks? Don't we need to keep a closer eye on the Secret Bank? Isn't this suggestion just in harmony with what this government suggests, to go 20, 30 years or then back in time and put its people in here and there? I think it's a bit smelly now, and I'm just waiting for someone to suggest something like that about the banks, now we have the Lands Bank, and so is the Federal Bank, that members of the council sit there so that they can watch carefully. I'm not talking about the risk that if the information gets worse, because I don't think Congress and I can't complain about not getting good information from the Development Organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. This is the tip of a senator. As I look at this, I feel that it is a legitimate indication that members of Congress should cover more on evolutionary issues and development cooperation, but I don't think this is necessarily the right way. A word of advice. The senator's request that the members of the council go on the other committees and that advice should also be of only interest to us, for it does not matter which field it is in. So I would have considered it preferable to do so within the council organization in some way. Five senators also say why. A senator, and if we look at the examples we have from the government, it is clear that not everyone is expected to be represented in this committee. It is only enough to mention the State Radio, where six members of the members of the members of Congress and three members of the Boards of Government Committees, and one group are not allowed to appoint representatives. So there is nothing that guarantees an interpolitian solidarity in it. What I would have considered interesting to discuss would be how we can improve the understanding of evolutionary cooperation in the field of the council because it seems to be a legitimate indication. Then I would have considered it best, as I earlier said it was done at the State Department and may have to reconsider their roles. I realize that's a bigger change than anything else. The minister of foreign affairs has probably not felt that he was about to make radical changes in the council organization. Okay, but I think it's something we senators must discuss. If we want to expand our coverage at the General Assembly on Development, we must ask ourselves, " How do I do that at the council? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u128	Mr. President. I'd like to know that I'm one of its regular readers, and I think it's an amazing experiment on the part of a developing research agency that has responded very well. I notice that very often its pleasant stories are found in the other media. I believe that no investment in information sharing on the part of any government agency has been as effective as the decision to keep it out. Hv. One senator wondered: " What are the precedents for man's going to the highest degree? ' A minister proposes. I honestly say that I don't remember any government agency that's been committed to the Ministry. And if anyone in this room, including the highest. A foreign minister remembers such things. It may well have happened sometime, I don't say in centuries before, but I don't remember. This is going against all the laws in the modern world on how to understand between policy and implementation. On the contrary, this is what a government reexamination has done, making numerous comments over the years, almost leaving its nods in the backs of the Parliaments over and over again, and the Ministers in particular. Hv. A senator participated a few years ago, I think, at least, in the discussion on how to improve the meeting and development issues. It was an experiment that was totally screwed up, this committee, and all the nonsense is written at the expense of the council. It's just that way. The State Department was completely free of charge. But how did it go? A senator sees this relationship?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u129	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I must admit that I do not recall such condemnations, though my memory is not reliable. Of course, I've wondered: " What if these ideas had come up to reduce the number of institutions and combine, e.g.? The Ministry of Minds? Now a peacekeeping committee and state archaeology were united in one institution, the Minja Institute, which would have been so united under the Ministry of Education and Culture. To be honest with you, if it's strange evolution to bring a profession, which is not in direct service, but more in administrative and implementation, we can say, in this way, under the Ministry. I don't recall such examples, and I find it hard to see the evidence, even though I do research in the field of professional practice. As for the council, I did not participate in these excellent discussions, likely at the time. But that's right. A senator says. This attempt to integrate the council more into evolutionary policy has not provided as much hope as anyone would have to look into it. I have personally spoken of the fact that this is done through the committee committee committee committees. I've reminded you and I that we've given a great deal of assignment to the Foreign Affairs Committee. It has long had ideas about forming a special European Commission and, of course, if such a committee was formed, it would have more room for them to do their job in developing cooperation and other foreign affairs than those directly involved in the EEA Convention and in European relations. It may be unpopular to increase the number of committees of the council, however, is called very often after the council is actively involved in the monitoring and access of EEA and Europe. It may also ensure an increased access to development cooperation and other foreign affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u130	Mr. President. The article on the bill we're discussing here on a development team committee is at least An attempt to create some kind of active nerve between the council and members of each party and development team. If men were going on this voyage, I might have had this a little different, and I feel that the report is way too much of a strain that the 15 people there are supposed to be travel considerably, but it's also not at the top. The secretary of state to be accused because it was the natural emphasis of the council in my time that I didn't like. But after that, my question remains to be answered. The senator is: Does he believe that the instruments of this evolutionary teamwork committee will become sufficiently active and create a living link between the Parliament and development cooperation? I'm not quite sure about that. It would be nice to have a attitude. That's what a senator is for. Because we were being sulfan earlier, and people have been wondering what example today. To this end, I was trying to dig in my mind an institution that had been committed to the Ministry. I don't remember anyone. On the other hand, I remember, of course, that the highest. An organization, an organization of national interests, was destroyed by one of the prime ministers in a rage. He was deeply embarrassed and created all kinds of difficulties for the council, for earlier members of the council were able to obtain important information directly from it. That is how it was done. But that's the only thing that's going to get close to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u131	A respectable president. I am involved in only the equipment laid out here for the assembly's entrance to development cooperation. I believe that in a panel of 15 parties meeting according to the bill that at least twice a year, a lot of work may not be required on the part of them. If you are on a committee that meets twice a year, it is usually called a meeting of information that reviews what has been done, but not necessarily expect a large amount of policy or a total. [[Up front.]] The committee has no authority under the bill, but there is more to counseling. So I do not see that this is not enough to strengthen the Senate's position in this regard. I am very interested in strengthening the state of the council, and often it is simply informal, since members of the Parliament are called for a hearing not directly under the committee in a formal manner. I can see that the Foreign Affairs has to do a good job of reviewing this problem. I think it's a good thing to call a university party, a professional-friendly organisation and a free partner in some form of consultation, but it doesn't necessarily guarantee that the Allied Council of Iceland will take more on their arms. Of course, part of the evidence presented in the report, which is the basis for the proposal, is the change that has taken place in the present government when the agreed strategy on development cooperation and cut down donations instead of increasing the budget. The thought behind what is discussed there is, of course, the need for increased attendance is to maintain stability in matters so that such confusion, I'm just saying, don't repeat. This will not be done with any meeting committee that meets twice a year at a meeting of information.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u132	A respectable president. I always welcome it when we discuss foreign affairs here in the conference hall and especially when we have the opportunity to discuss development cooperation. It has to be said, as it is, that the discussion here has been very good and enjoyable, ending in an important subject. But the reason I'm sorry is boring because we're discussing a bill that's been submitted and as I look at it, I feel worse and worse about it. That senator began working at the High General Assembly some two years ago and came here wet behind his ears and blue eyes. In such a situation, of course, you do your best to study and see how the land is. One of the subjects that came up on my table when I was appointed a foreign - language representative was just a development team. It has to be acknowledged that in my earlier case in rural affairs, development teamwork rarely had if ever there was a talk, since the arrival of the rural government was extremely limited. But over the last two years, I've worked hard to study developing cooperation and how Iceland has done her developing cooperation. From a number of things I've studied in Icelandic government, development is one of the most beautiful and positive signs I've ever seen, as shown in the above talks, on the most successful and effective work of a developing organization. In the last few years, after a real focus was put on and added in the Agency's management and effectiveness monitoring, it has been a pleasure to see how well the small amount of money that little Iceland has contributed to development cooperation has been spent, however much of the impact it has had. The Foreign Affairs Committee has put considerable effort into researching developing cooperation, this past year under a firm and loyal regime. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and this has been a very pleasant journey. Therefore, I must say that this bill comes something like -- well, now I don't know what words are allowed here - something disrespectful of the sheep's arm. This seems to be an attempt to change what appears to be in a very good condition. I couldn't hear the top story talk any better. Foreign Minister, who would fully agree that the work and organization of the Development Agency were exemplary. Then you have to ask yourself, " Is this part of some trend, whether we're looking at evolution or a change in how we operate our administration in Iceland? ' It has been shown in the discussion that this does not seem to be the case because the trend has been, and the general trend in the education of good and efficient management, to have a very clear understanding of progress and policy development. Sometimes you can ask yourself in little Iceland, in a small administrative capacity as much as you do in this small country, how you can have independent institutions all over all possible things. In fact, the conclusion remains that by having independent, professional organisations around the project - and this applies both to the state and also to rural communities, even though the institutions are powerless and small and small - we increase all the chances that professionalry and good management are on the table and the monitoring of these projects are independent and also the monitoring of financial resources. I think that everyone -- I allow myself to say, " Although I'm bored with saying something about everyone's opinions, it's always somebody who feels differently,'but it's, at least, most of the people who have considered these issues that went very well. The bill is actually suggested to go in the opposite direction to what I could best believe to strengthen our development teamwork project. I lean more and more on the other side, as I look more closely at these matters, that further should be done in the other direction, i.e. to strengthen the development network as an independent unit and even to bring up a project now within the Ministry. We have moved assignments from councilors to special institutions. I can think of a Fish Room. In ports, on ports, etc. has gone very well to have an independent organisation, which will then be subject to professional and financial supervision from the budget. So I'll be, like some whisks. Early members of the discussion, saying that the proposal to go the other way is surprisingly less. Developmental cooperation is not some project that we are about to complete now or bite from the needle. Development teamwork is part of the role of Iceland in the world that I have now told earlier talks on foreign affairs that are always shrinking and integrating. We know this, and we see every day when we hear new reports of the effects of climate change, the effects of mischanges of power, and the world's wealth that change will be more rapidly than expected. There will be many changes, and much will change in the world. And although we live here on a small, peaceful island in the North Sea, it is clear that these changes will at least have indirect and probably have a direct effect on us Icelanders. In these circumstances international cooperation will have to serve a larger role and to participate in this development, much more important, even for such small isolated countries such as Iceland, to keep tight on the knowledge that we have the opportunity to build up and build up institutions and traditions that are the best we can. It has just been such a joy to learn about the work of the Development Agency, since this has been the case with a rock - mass. I can only say, in the direct following words from the past but end up with a special compliment on the website that has been held out, which has really opened my eyes as a senator, and I hear in the community that it has really increased interest and understanding of the importance of development cooperation. This is an important part of Icelandic foreign policy, which in the end is not just a question of kindness of some kind to poor outlaws but a part of our being a part of the world, and we are participating as a nation in it, being rich, being peaceful and having a considerable capacity on the average, to improve the world. How wonderful it is that we have well - equipped organizations! As noted in the surveys already done, but I agree that we are waiting for the amount of equal money expected in 2016, we have an institution that has the capacity to handle more projects, not just Icelandic projects or projects that begin in Iceland, but, like, what does that mean? paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphéðinsson pointed out in an antiquated solution, an institution that is trusted to receive an additional amount of money from the international community; the Icelandic Agency does not just measure up to its own weight but is simply a global model; it is more useful to process these resources than other institutions. So I'm a little worried that I don't have enough argument, that I think, in a paper with the bill, by going to such a serious thing. I also have to make a rather serious comment to the timing. Not only are we discussing this bill here at the General Assembly today - while a respectable president has agreed to direct it to the State Accounting, while the request of many members of Congress, nine members of Congress if I recall correctly, on the further explanation behind the bill remains - is being proposed to make significant changes in the development of our Iceland's teamwork and on the work being carried out in this independent agency, in developing partnerships, when we know that there is an international report of 2016. I kind of make a special account for the fact that I find this amazing timing. In this discussion, there is a danger that things may be repeated. I'm a general spokesman for efficiency in discussions here at the General Assembly, but it has to be said at the moment that a good reference will never be too often. Just at the end of my speech, I'd like to put a question mark on the section of the bill that focuses on changing the development committee and the political access to developing cohesion. It seems to me that this is making quite a change in political arrivals, of course not just by moving the job into the Ministry, directly under the political authority of Ministers, but also by creating a developing teamwork committee, where five members of Congress are to meet twice a year at least, as stated. I have to say, given the experience I've had in Congress, a job that's supposed to be twice a year on the agenda of our senators is, unfortunately, late to become the top priority of the senator's work. I'm worried that this will not be the case, that this is not a good way, although I may not necessarily have the best way of returning it. But I've finished my case for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u133	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. Because he is on the foreign matter committee, where this issue is discussed, I would like to offer some thought here. I find that there is a lack of considerable depth in the report to prepare the progress being proposed, i.e. ... toputtheYSSI into the Ministry of State. I think maybe the research question is missing, what's the point? I don't feel that a minister has reasoned enough, nor will Þórir's case be ignored. I wondered, because the description is very general and I feel that there is no connection with the options presented in the report. I'm asking why. A member of the council whether he shares in the lack of visualizing the results because we have measurable results of the Ministerial Development Organization, which has been successful. It doesn't seem here that we need the evolutionary objective and the link, whether the senator can agree with me on that. Then I would like to ask him how he feels about the idea of reducing the number of countries to which the development team should be involved. Now we are primarily talking about three countries of the Development Organization, reducing them even to two. If something comes up, for example, if they have to close the country, we have one country left. Is this acceptable, according to the senator's opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u134	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I have to agree with that. A senator's goal for this change is somewhat unclear to those here. It may be clear in the process rather than in any way, considering the discussion so far and the report, I don't think it quite clear enough. In general, my experience with the combined and changes in the structure of the system, whether in business or in management, is that there are two basic objectives in general. It's on the one hand, fixing something that's fantastic, and it sounds like everyone's agreeing on, too, the highest. Secretary of State, not to be the big problem here, and the other to add something in particular, to make the work much better, to save a lot of money, or something like that. I'm sorry, but I can't see enough evidence that this applies either way. For a number of countries, I am concerned about limiting the work to three countries. Not many years ago, the numbers were reduced. Of course, three countries are quite low, and I wanted to see a marvelous increase in productions for developing cooperation so that both the work in the countries can be supported and even increased. On the other hand, I believe that the project, the situation as it is today, with the financial resources assigned to the projects, has at least yielded very good results.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u135	A respectable president. Here's a suggestion that may not have got a huge sound base, i.e. that there will be a system of successful management for all development cooperation, not only to the development of the European Commission, but to the Ministry, the schools that are underneath, and to society. It's easy to talk about, but it's complicated. But I'm saying it's a good suggestion and it should be the top project of the Ministry. I'm asking the senator if he thinks it's on his own, that this kind of system will be installed, can lead to greater efficiency and better cooperation, but that's exactly what the Minister's concerned about. I'd like to ask you, too. Senator: The main role of the Ministry of State is national interest protection against foreign countries. I think it's so important in this, I agree, to ensure Iceland's interests in foreign lands. But that is not what developing cooperation is all about. It's about the poorest people in the world. [[The president calls.]] It is the interests of the one underneath. It's not our reason, as we have stated, and it's stated in the report, that the interest market, the development team, is not about that, it's about the interests of the poor people. [[The president calls.]] I want to ask you why. Senator if he sees this look in the file, I'm worried about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u136	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer and the questions. I believe that the mechanism of success at the Development Agency has given rise to an extremely successful development program and has been very successful in following up tasks and maximising results. So I have to be positive and say that I believe that recording a similar system in other lands must be positive. In itself, the Agency does not necessarily have to unite the Ministry to do so. In terms of the potential conflict between the State Department's projects, which take interest and interest in Iceland, I may not have a major concern about that part, since the State Department of State operates in other fields, including civil service and such, so I don't think it's necessarily impossible to plant it. [[The president calls.]] I'm more concerned that this is a set-up of activities and surveillance, i.e. The same party that conducts the procedure should be monitored. [[The president calls.]] I don't think it's good luck to be in charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u137	Mr. President. Two things were especially interesting to me when I spoke at the time. Senator. The first was related to his discussion of the development committees and what I could find to be critical of a political arrival. Hv. A senator put it that way, and I would find it interesting to hear it. A senator believes that it would be appropriate to connect with the council or politics. Its members are naturally deeply concerned with having a good connection with the council. Why? We know that. Because here's the money. It is totally understandable, but it would be interesting to hear an attitude. That's what I'm talking about. The rest of my life also impressed me. A senator said that with the direction shown in the bill, it was the highest. A minister goes on a mission that was basically in the opposite direction, like the other. A senator put it, using what he felt was closer to. That's interesting to me. Is it his political party, the bright future, or his private opinion that perhaps a person on the other side might be more successful, if men are going to make a big difference in their work, taking the course as Davíð Oddsson and the current highest. Education Ministers at their disposal? Because it was the current highest. A minister of education who was then the pot and pan in it, at least to overturn the bonds that remained that course. Counts 'em out. A senator that there may be a possibility in the situation, and if he has discussed it in his own group, is this his opinion and his future experiences?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u138	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and the questions. At the end of my talk, I did not get a proper political approach. I think it's very important that the political event is to develop cooperation, and that's primarily, as it were. A senator mentioned, because this is the budget and it's here at the General, where we would make a policy on how we're going to get into development. Now, the senator here is not quite a policeman enough to remember exactly the percentage of national production that is expected to take place, but it is somewhere around about a third or so out of the goal of 0.7%, which, for example, our friends Britain and Ireland went a long way out of the middle of the crisis and added to it. I believe that political and transpolitic agreements on these matters are of great importance. One thing that causes me a little anxiety about the bill is that it is presented in a group of government but not in political reconciliation. The other question. Senator, I can't say that a bright future has still taken a clear, final course in how these institutions should be maintained. On the other hand, it is in our spirit to ensure professional and safe management and certain firewalls are between the administrations, and from that main princely position I think I can claim, all roads for my future, and on behalf of Birt's behalf, that the idea of going in the other direction and following the ideas of Davíð Oddsson, the then foreign minister, could be successful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u139	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Proppé often reminds me of, with all due respect, of Italian bohem and of ◯intelectual. So I mention that the nation that was last revised in their development cooperation was Italian. They were completing Christmas to accept law at the council after a lot of grief, it was very controversial, but they really went that way. A senator is like this, at least in his secret mind, and he allowed us the privilege of peering into it. They were springing up their development teamwork. The results of much overcrowded and advised by the best of all the men in the city of Rome and probably more in Italy were moving everything into one institution, also taking the multi-sided projects, and putting everything into one institution, and it's well in the spirit of a developing cohesion agency. One of the things she is commended for in this report is just the distribution of power because it distributes power to the people.... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u140	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator is very grateful for his compliments. I agree with him that few things are as spectacular as Italian bohemian and ◯intelectal, and now I can't protect myself from that thought. A senator has some of that expression himself, especially when speaking. [[Take it up in the hairstyle.]] Yes, I have to agree with the senator that power distribution is very important and I think it is in the spirit, in fact, a political era, spreading power, increasing the brain of decision-making, policy, policy. One of the things that bothers me with the bill is that this is going the other way and really decided to drag more things under one head, the head of the prospective minister, and I must say that the change the Italians made in their own affairs has, as little as I considered it, worked very well on me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u141	V.E.G. President. It is noteworthy in the bill that an institution is being taken as part of a two - sided development team and brought into the Ministry to increase the scope of Iceland's development cooperation, or should be said to bring it closer to new and changing emphasis, with greater emphasis on protecting the environment, struggling with the impacts of climate change, guarantee of peace and security, and, of course, disintegration of poverty. Then you wonder when it is stated - or right to state - that the Agency has done a particularly good job and many things in independent reviews. I'm not as familiar with these matters as I am with their organization here and there. A senator, but I know there is considerable work to be done in the climate at the Ministry. I wondered if it could be that an institution that has built up such specialized knowledge and goes into the Ministry where the emphasis has been otherwise, whether the two - sided cooperation could not pay for it, a cooperation that is very important, since it is a challenge to get people out of poverty. Hv. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson discussed the example from Italy, where the ministry is being transferred to the Bureau, I'm asking if. A senator is not concerned about the development of the two - sided development team in Iceland if this change is made, a cooperation that is still needed, and a great deal of importance to the poorest citizens of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists the question. It is now that Iceland's development team, both two - sided and multi - sided, is in line with Iceland's foreign policy and has been observed in discussions and answers at the highest level. Minister of State earlier today, that there are no examples except for the development of development as well as the Ministry of Development in action and emphasis on Iceland's foreign affairs, there seems to be no trouble in putting that policy between high places, that I understand, because evolution is now no longer beyond the State Department but simply being on the floor below, or above, if I can recall. True, I am concerned that with such unity, it will be easier to make two - sided work and a multi - sided job. We saw little evidence of that in the budget last year, where there was a slight increase in school projects in the two - sided development team that I think is unfortunate. However, I think it is of course important that we with this relatively small amount of money worldwide, they are the best equipped for the projects where we have special knowledge and it has been shown that it has not been a problem so far, it has been rather... [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u143	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. You also wonder, one is a two - sided team, and another is international cooperation. Although Italians, who are considerably larger than we have chosen to put these two things together, you can ask yourself, " Is this really the same name, whether it is the methodology and the professional knowledge that we have? ' With these changes in focus, we can ponder; climate and environment are being discussed in many parts of the European government. There must be a cooperation with those people who deal with these issues when the State Department is working on those matters at a international level. Do these two really need to be united? Is there any evidence that the best interests are for two - sided development cooperation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u144	A respectable president. I'm kind of gonna have to take a cheeky shot. Senator, I'm not absolutely certain that there is any special need to combine these two projects, though, what we should say, the basic prince of cooperation and assistance may be quite different. The international cooperation is often carried out by international institutions, which primarily involves providing funds and participating in that work while the two - sided development team is an independent task, where we have built a great deal of knowledge and capacity. So I share the senator's speculations, I don't think there's any particular reason to combine these projects, unless that would really increase our abilities and technology. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u145	A respectable president. I'd like to take a few words on the bill to legalize the law on international development teaming in Iceland. First, I want to review that with the law on the 2008 international development team, major steps were taken to set the general framework for developing cooperation. To that end, the activities of the Development Agency had been in many ways unsaid and beyond the general control structure. For example, the Agency had imposed rules in personnel other than government agencies otherwise and the rest of its policy and control of its activities was not fully developed, except that the head of the Agency was a government, which included both, management and monitoring. So it was obvious that change would have to be made. The idea of the 2008 law was to create a clear framework for the political policy on developing cooperation projects, in view of the high emphasis that then existed as well as that which followed the seminary on evolutionary policy, i.e. They were building the idea that this would be a fundamental part of a long - term Icelandic foreign policy, and it would require a stronger and clearer setting. Political policies would have to be clear. It would have to be so that a minister could come to development teamwork policies. It would also have to be sure that the Council could come up with such policies and lay down some democratic principles on how these vast sums of money were handled this year in a fifth billion dollars, much or less, though we do not feel that we are not spending enough on this group of lawsuits. Finally, it was concluded that the Council would have a specific way of meeting with the Agency's management, having to consult in many parts of the Agency, and then the Council would agree to a plan for development cooperation for several years at the same time. After the establishment of this government, we have experienced that a new government does not respect the developing teamwork program, which has been developed for several years, adopted here at the General Assembly, and that is, of course, a problem. We see the change here being made in order to bring together the Department of State Development. That's not a new idea. In recent decades, she has been on the rise many times. To her, there may be evidence. I don't intend to argue that there can be no physical basis for this, but there are other reasons to maintain a developing research agency as an independent agency. What I really feel is, why do we have the heads of state independent organizations to carry out our assignments? It is largely because, in general, it has been thought that the strategy and implementation of projects is not normal, it is normal for the Council to be a targeted policy but that the implementation of policy measures is in government institutions, which are directed toward the head of the Ministry, but are independent of their jobs so that policy measures are taken from the implementation. It is impossible to discern where the present government is headed in these matters because it is at the same time as the highest. The minister of state suggests that this institution, which is a good tool, does not mark a standard construction agency, working on national projects, but, rather, operates on very complex and specialized tasks in distant countries, he intends to import it into the Ministry as soon as possible. Education minister is exported from the Ministry of Education to projects that have been carried out in the field of education, to a special education institution. So there is no overall policy to be seen in the government of that subject. Does she want to import administrative projects into the Ministry, or does she want to transfer them out of the budget? That's the first thing I'm doing. On the one hand, the status of the Development Agency has to be watched specifically and the chemical basis for its own independentness or role as part of the Ministry. As I said before, there's evidence that this operation is in the Ministry. This is true in various neighboring lands, but there are others. The fact that this will all fit together and be inserted into the Ministry is attributed to a top-level bill. Ministers, but there is another reason. Of course, they are the specialised element that the work of the Development Agency calls for, in a physical way, a job in foreign service, and frames it in small foreign services, such as ours, but in larger local services of neighboring countries. It is easier to have a group of staff between developing countries and the Ministry who work primarily in the field of development than in the microscopic foreign service. The threat is that if the development teamwork and development of the Agency are included in the public transport of the State Department of State Department's State Department's central expertise is lost and that we have the development teamwork as the rest size of the human beings with no particular background in evolutionary cooperation and development issues, it is simply available at any given time. It's kind of the biggest concern I've ever had. What we were trying to do with the 2008 law was brought up in the Foreign Affairs Committee when the DiaC Committee came to visit in 2012 when I was again serving as a foreign committee, trying to build up the expertise in the Development Organization, it was constantly working toward that goal. The weakness we saw right away in 2008 was that more expertise was lacking in the Agency for developing cohesion as such. There had been hired employees who had carried out certain tasks that were specialized and perhaps temporary in nature. For example, motorists were hired to do these and other tasks. They were working five years at a time, and then they were confined to the level of acquired knowledge in the Agency, and the basis was not sufficiently strong for those who were built up by a special education in the field of evolution. Since then, the emphasis has been to strengthen the knowledge base in the development field of the Agency. As I look at this now, my concern is that the unity would lead to a weaker level of knowledge in the Ministry of State due to the influence of transport restrictions. We know it's very well that it's running fast. We have many examples of men who are employed in defenses that have a different background and who are employed in business matters that have never affected them before in foreign service. It's her nature, and it's also her charm, and at the same time the alternative to her, but I have serious doubts about the possibility in these matters. On the one hand, I pondered the effects on the personnel business. The development network must have the opportunity to hire staff for a limited time, in the sense that it is based on limited temporary tasks. How have people thought about putting in place the staff structure of the Development Agency in the Management Board and the Management Board and the legislation on the rights and duties of the government's public staff? It is not easy for me to imagine that the same flexibility in the State Department's development forces are being used to recruit staff for special projects in one country to five years without any further rights, without any promise of any other careers or such. Today, developing institutions have the opportunity to hire people for only five years, and then the recruitment relationship ends. So I must ask: In what way have people planned to bring down the established environment of the state to a developing organization? Finally, the coming of a council to this matter is very informative. Here, in itself, the development committee is released, a successor to the Commission of Development Cooperative Workers, appointed to represent members of Congress alone. It is now assumed that there will be one development committee and five members of the General election, for there are already six members of the General Assembly. Does this mean, then, that one congregation should be totally ignorant? And is it that, then, should be represented by each other's party, or should you choose a percentage vote? Will this be like the vote of the RUS Government, which is now one of the greatest scandalous historys of these government parties in government or advice? On the one hand, the development committee is to play a master role in the decision-making process. Fine. Let us now agree that it would be in an adequate way that the coming of the non - Witness council with five agents would have to be assisted by the strategy that is very important. However, all of the data on Iceland's development team has shown that what is lacking is a political surveillance of the project. Senators are monitoring through the General Assembly budget, with all the Generals and all the government business and all the government services within the country. But when it comes to the use of four quarters a year of public money during development, the Senate's surveillance is nothing. It is considered highly critical of the OECD Development Committee, and has been repeatedly called upon by the council to attend the inspection. Eight. This bill says, by permission of the President: ▪ The government's policy on international development cooperation, as illustrated by 5. g., should be subject to regular follow-up and assessment by an independent person. So it says in an explanation of the article: No explanation is needed. I feel that it requires an explanation that no monitoring system is built on how almost 5 billion are spent in public funds. The strategy is set out by the OECD Development Committee that the legislature source should monitor these budgets and these aspects of the State conflict, just like all other aspects of the budget. But here it is said to cut the council completely out of this and to say that this procedure should be subject to regular follow-up and assessment by an independent party. Who are they? Who are these parties? The secretary puts out a bill here based on reports. He'll have one qualified and a good specialist, but only one man, to win this one. Will he get any one person to do this assessment, or will he get any company, or who will work on this assessment? To say that the surveillance of the entire development network of the country doesn't need an explanation in the bill is totally beyond my understanding, I don't understand how to reach that conclusion. On the contrary, the objective of the changes made on the law in 2012, and what was then stated in the law was to ensure the better access of the Parliament to this matter, on the other hand, to the policy and to the surveillance. The procedure is to be carried out by the State or Minister, the Ministry and the Agency, which he is in charge of the current law, but it must be in the hands of the council. So it is now said that the assembly will weaken its approach to its policy and cut off the council completely from the surveillance process, and the minister will fully deliver the details of the surveillance. That's a lot of reproach to me and a lot of anxiety. I have the hope that the State Department will oversee this case very carefully, so I'm going to ask the DiaC's reviews, and I'm not going to have a meeting with DAC's representatives until such a meeting has taken place, because this bill is not in any way consistent with the emphasis we heard from the DA's representatives when they came here in 2012.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u146	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. This is the way an outsider, because he was talking about overlooking the money and the like, it's a special financial team, and it's no longer gonna fit into the Ministry. I would like to raise questions because the senator got a lot more talk about the policy and the vision in developing cooperation. As we also feel here, a developing cohesion agency feels that these major changes in the organization and the development of the development team are premature. As considered, as a council, we have confirmed this. It's acknowledged by the DEC, as the senator's case showed. Could it be that we are faced with all of this that we are going back to the starting point, that the policy of this category is going back to its basics because we do not have the opportunity to learn from the work being done? DAC was going to submit the report 2016 and the management situation has requested review of the National Research. As a result, I ask the senator if he thinks so and also whether this organization is more likely to achieve the ideas and goals we have already set for ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u147	A respectable president. These changes, in effect, involve a few trips without a promise. The assembly's meeting as a groundwork policy is weak, and the political agency of representatives or members of the development committee is weakened by the fact that there will be only five members, not even all members of Congress who represent the table. We already see that the government does not begin to adopt an agreed development team, so this raises serious questions about the coming of the Council to policy. Hv. A senator asked about the policy we had agreed on. This is not about strengthening the foundation for a parapolitic team for developing cohesion with this. On the one hand, I think it's possible to carry out development cooperation with the agency within the Ministry as well as in the other. It is quite possible to do so, but it is very difficult to do so in the Icelandic foreign service, which is human, based on transport responsibilities, and it is a highly specialized project, and it is similar to a traditional di·lomia. A traditional diplomacy in Iceland is a physical aid and building work in other countries. There's a whole different set of ideologies and emphasis. All this has in common is that it's foreign, but it doesn't have anything in common on a project. This has nothing in common with the thinking of the people who are doing the job. Other countries have solved this problem by allowing the same people to root out among them. We don't have the crowd in the foreign service, unfortunately, being able to have sufficient groups who merely remember rooting between these development partnerships and not doing other projects for the foreign service.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u148	A respectable president. The point is, there are times when we can draw close to other countries, and at times we need to look at these things out of the breath and the factors that the senator brought on, not necessarily to save ourselves. I've felt it was only in the report, feeling it was over and around. I agree that projects can belong in the Ministry but I don't think it's intended to increase professional depth or our effectiveness in developing cooperation to put it all together in the Ministry. I'd rather see what's going on up there and ask the senator if he agrees with me in it. I mentioned earlier, and I'm going to do it again that the Ministry isn't exactly showing some measurable results in the other thing and this. However, this has been very clear from the development community. It was observed by the Minister that things have been going very well there and have received very good judgments, etc., although they can certainly be improved as well as others. I feel that, and not just me, the Ministry's main mission is, of course, the national and national interests of foreign countries. I'm concerned that evolution is not really about what we have in Iceland but about the poor, and that's why we're working on the basis of those who accept the development cooperation, i.e. The poor, but not on the grounds of us Icelanders. I would like to ask if the senator agrees with me in that there is a greater possibility that this could happen when people arrive in a more distant area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u149	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator to see that the best response now is to strengthen the development community. I would think it was the wisest thing to do. As I've said many times before and again, this can be done in the Ministry but it requires so much structure and expertise in which, if well, I don't think it's possible that it's possible from the economics I see part of the evidence here. When we considered this much in 2008, it was the physical conclusion that it was better to support a professional development agency to make it more possible for them to do this, because the projects are so different in nature. Conventional diplomats in foreign services defend Iceland's interests against other countries. He talks to governments and is in position with governments, proclaims the message of the government, and gives it back to the government. It also has a interest stakeholder for the Icelandic economy, in many respects for exporting, etc. However, in this case the assigned employee is in contact with ordinary people, perhaps with the local authorities in some small town to form a development project on women's education or to be putting up a water supply or to be doing something else that is being done. Some 10 years ago, there was much movement in international development to stop such projects, to provide funds for countries that were being supported. All Western European countries have become more concerned with this trend today and want to have something mixed up, not only on specific projects but also on such support. I don't quite see how the foreign service is going to have the human resources to devote itself to this future project. [[The president calls.]] This has not been true in other assignments, and many who leave one work to another, from one speciality to another, within the foreign service in general.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u150	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the speech and ask him a question. I think it's about good government, and you don't know in itself whether the Ministry has developed and developed as good a system for success, monitoring and testing as has been done in developing research. The trend, as I understand it, may have been to transport projects from councils and institutions so that the Ministry will have its policies and checks, but the institutions will take care of it. It's going the opposite way. Then I find an excuse to ask how well the Ministry goes against policy, to care for the project, to follow the procedure, and then to evaluate the results. I'm interested in hearing what's wrong. A senator says so. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, also introduced the surveillance in response to the highest court. Secretary of state, and I thought he was slightly overlooked. This would be the question: How does it turn around? Senator, this whole surveillance thing, and whether the Ministry should consider itself?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u151	A respectable president. As I traced my speech, first of all, there is no clear policy to be received from the government as to whether she would normally want to transfer a project into the Ministry or out of it and the Ministry of Education would do contrary to the foreign minister. Besides that, these projects are much more specialized and far different from government projects than the highest education projects. The Minister of Education is taking out of the Ministry of Education today and setting up at the Institute of Education. As for the surveillance, I think it's 8. absolutely unacceptable, to say in general that the implementation of government policies on international development cooperation depends on the surveillance and assessment of an independent party. So we explain that the article does not need an explanation. I feel that it needs an explanation how to monitor the provision of nearly 5 billion of public funds. Also, in 2012, the DAC Development Committee, who came and thoroughly met with a foreign - language committee, helped us to see that the arrangements for these funds were absolutely lacking in the Icelandic general work of the Generals and members of the Parliament. They wanted a financial committee to do this or to have this matter in particular at the hands of a foreign committee. Our conclusion was that it would be. The Foreign Affairs Committee should oversee the procedure in some way, but it would be elected special members of the Development Committee to pursue policy measures, so it was not the same with the members who carried out the strategy and surveillance. However, it is not possible for the Ministers to provide an International Commission bill that no monitoring should be nor monitoring that no one knows how to deliver nearly 5 billion of public funds when the statements of an international patrol show that this is the largest weakness in the development structure already.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u152	A respectable president. That's exactly what I'm talking about. Eight. A smile, that's what I'm talking about. A senator came on, a very important thing. Besides, I don't understand why it's being made up of something that's going well, but there's something else to discuss. I don't know if I just heard, sometimes when you're sitting in a Senate hall, if it's been talked about before the Supreme Court. The minister gave his speech that a president's review would, in part, address it, feel I have heard it. We always have a Kingdom Accounting. I don't know that a member of State Accounting is a big part of the council emergency. I don't remember if there are any examples or if it's the idea, if there's any way that a state-research can take over this particular project and make an assessment of it. Whether it's a problem, I don't know, but it's clear that some independent party needs to be monitored. It could be a State Accounting, but I don't know that she's taken over some council plans or taken out some particular project. There is more transfer, some process of recruitment that is being considered, institutions, and other things. But I absolutely agree with what. Senator. It's very special, and I still haven't quite understood what is really behind the fact that people have such a massive operation and whether it's the only report referred to. There are a number of reports written in Iceland that have not been done with them. I don't understand. I know why. A senator why we are in this situation and are discussing this matter? One feels that there should be plenty of other matters from the government, which are for some progress. This is beyond my understanding. I feel like we're having something to do to keep us from making any changes that don't bring any real issues into the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u153	A respectable president. I don't trust myself on the research project to investigate the minds of the highest. The minister or the reasons why he might choose this matter, or he may put it into practice. He needs to answer that question. What I find to think about in this, of course, is the established arrangement. I think the matter is oddly over eight. Okay, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's I must wonder about the question and the question that if people are making changes, why don't they try it better than to say that someone independent is supposed to make surveys, saying that a law doesn't need an explanation? It needs a lot of explanations for me. If this Independent Reviewer is a national review, it needs to be discussed in detail. Also, as I've traced it here, it's only natural for DAC experts to believe that this would be the case with the council. I feel that there is a great lack of the bigger picture in that subject. Is the idea of a consulting firm making these checks? I don't think it's an adequate equipment. Is the idea that international parties do it? I feel that all of this needs to fall into the thought that developing cooperation is part of the official government policy and that public policy is to submit to the surveillance and control of the Council, such as any other official government policy. I think it's the big blind spot in this case, the arrival of the Generals at the check-up here, and maybe further and better evaluation and implementation of how it should work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u154	Mr. President. I'm gonna try to go over this thing a little bit. I'm pretty depressed about it, and I hope I don't get along with a lot of things, but it could still be the case. As we have seen, I'm very at odds with this case and I don't think it's time on so many grounds that have been traced to some extent today. First, I think this should have been completed with the missing AD report and that the project would be allowed to take some end before the arrangement was changed. I would like to start by quoting this report from the 2008 Sigurgeirsdóttir Geigerdóttir, which says, including, by permission of the president: ▪ In a oral report to the Council on November 8th. In view of increased donations for professionalism, the minister decided that Iceland will become a member of the Environment and Development Committee of the OECD/DAC (OECD/DAC) - which we have quoted here. This gave Iceland direct access to experience and information useful to developing activities and the planning of developing cohesion, as well as to the assessment of the development of member countries every four years. Member of the Committee aims to ensure the quality of development cooperation and provide an important professional support. This is what a foreign minister has no time to wait. So DAC is going to report next year, and it would have made sense to me to wait for a report. I'm saying, as was said just now, this can't be first, or what's behind it, so it's like this? I don't think that the evidence has been developed or that the various goals that say it will all be more efficient. At any rate, it has not been shown that everything will be more efficient and better by bringing the TSSI into the Ministry. Then I am not minimizing the qualifications of the Ministry or the people who went there, such as those who work at the TSSI, but I'm just saying that the Ministry works quite differently than these institutions. I would like to continue the report on page 19. 15th It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The SISSI and the multi-time development team within the Ministry would weaken professional policy in developing cooperation. Such integration would reduce the ability of the Ministry to establish internal measures for decision making and thereby strengthen the professional policy. And then later, here comes: A complete management process can be developed in the Agency, focusing on professional preparation and the progressive management of the individual targets followed by internal monitoring and independent assessment. Second, professional development can be achieved through the compression of knowledge and experience from the implementation of two- sided cooperation including Knowledge and experience in developing countries Third, professional support can be provided by performing two - sided development cooperation within the Ministry, the maintenance that is not directly involved in the daily activities. Later it states: In the same way as political internal maintenance of international and security domains can strengthen groundwork and diplomatic awareness in the implementation of development cohesion and peacekeeping in the developing community, professional internal development within the Ministry of State can strengthen the development of both the ISSI and the development of the Ministry. This report seems to have received no attention when the minister decided to submit his bill and is taken note of only the report of Þórir Guðmundsson, which is excellent in many ways, as the reports are of itself, is fond of things and is not. I don't think that there's almost one way to go, and I feel that it's already been given. I'm not going to claim that it was, but I experienced it a little bit. I also found it interesting to read a fist on a news page that showed that in the time of Davíð the Oddsson of Oddd, as foreign minister, he fought against those who wanted to enter TheSSSI into the Ministry and would rather increase their assignments, which I would rather like to see than see. In fact, Davíð suggested that a long - distance and two - sided development team be transferred to a developing research agency. What surprises me is that he had a Regulation written by the Ministry Department that he refused to sign, as well as the manager's replacement, Sigríður Snævarr, the then ambassador, to sign. However, it is reported that the Ministry chief said it would never be respected. This gives me reason to think about who is in charge of a journey. Who really wants this project? Is it the government's will, or is it really the government's will at any given time? And is it okay for officials to allow such conduct? This law was valid for several years, but it was never followed. I find it very interesting that this has come up. There's a lot I could talk about, and it's just been happening today. I was interested when I wondered if we would switch institutions and put in other government institutions instead of the Development Institutes of Development and Development, so we wondered if we could consider taking them into the Ministry. There's nothing against it. I'm concerned that when the decision-making takes place farther away from the scene and into the Ministry, although, of course, people will be on the scene, I don't want to say anything else, and the decision process will take longer. We know that developing cooperation often requires rapid resolution. Advertisers do not directly demonstrate the results of their work and act in a measurable way. The minister has said that he will delegate this assignment to potential outsiders, it must be that way if it is to be convincing to those who are doing this. But I feel that the Ministry should have the policy programme and monitoring on its own but that an institution, such as the Development Agency, is expected to operate. I've said in my face that I'm concerned about the poor people we're working for and with, that there won't be as much emphasis as right now, which has been made in the polls, that we're looking out for these people on the basis of it, not on the basis of our Icelanders. I'm interested in knowing if it's the highest. A minister can visualize it in another way, i.e. to further care for all two-sided tasks for the SSI, which are part of the project and much of the department's work. If we look to Sida in Sweden, that institution is known for its high quality development and I think that there is something we should stress more. I'm also concerned about the ideologies that are presented here on the decrease in countries. Now they have dropped from six to three, i.e. those who are a member of the Development Agency. We no longer have activity in Namibia, Sri Lanka and Nikakagua, and if land is shut down for some reason, we have only one country. I think that can be too small for employees and things like that, but the powers won't be fully useful. It is also said to set up a embassy in Addis Ababa, or Nairobi. Is that necessary? Is that the most important project? I don't think so. I believe we should concentrate even more on such countries as Nigeria or someone smaller than the ones we have, as indicated, such as Mozambique, which is a very large country. Although we have been doing very good things there, we should rather look atDC's comments about which countries we already do more than reduce them. I don't think they'll be much less than three. I'd like to go over some comments from the Development Agency on the report because I feel that almost none of this has been accepted into this work. I agree that the study question was missing and that all of this is rather superficial in terms of the success goal, i.e. how to achieve goals in the light of the proposed suggestions, and this was not shown in the minister's speech. There is a lack of link between ideas and developing goals, it is not clear enough. As I mentioned at the outset, there is only three years of experience on this project, and in itself there is no reason why we should not continue on the same path, why we cannot ask for reports on the subject. I am also concerned that the policy will return to early ground and that too much powder goes into reorganizing the work of the Ministry rather than using the knowledge and all the experience that is available to do a better job and make even better use of the funds offered here. I feel that there has been nothing in the report that encourages the success of such efforts or that it will improve our performance in one way or another. I agree with the view that we won't necessarily be better at this change. At least there's no evidence to support it. I'm glad that the review of The People's Accounting for this case has been prepared, but I agree with what happened earlier today that it's an abomination that you can't wait for her, that it's so urgent to discuss this matter today that there's nothing else to be done. However, this will be taken into the work of the committee thereafter. But I agree with what it says that the transfer of this two - sided development teamwork at the Ministry will not be necessary to increase professional depth. It also makes it clear that there is a problem if there is expertise in the Bureau greater than there is in the Ministry. I think it's great, and that's what we want to see, of course, that our people working in the institutions have a lot of professional knowledge. If we compare the arguments presented in the report on page 18. 43 on the underlying development community for the development of the USSI operation, to the advice that DaAC has offered, 12 of them, on the management systems of evolutionary cooperation, on the emphasis on the rapid development and effectiveness of a working force, listed on page 43. Thirty - eight, it is clear that this argument does not go in the same direction. In fact, the report points out that local and international guidelines may conflict, so I think we all need to stay calm and study this very carefully because we need to clarify policy and implementation far better than here. I'm just warming up, but I hope I get a chance to talk more about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u155	President. I thought why. So a senator wondered how this proposal came about. Now I have my private opinion on it, and maybe I'd like to hear a thought. The senator from them, but I'm on top of it. A minister may have needed friends inside the Ministry. He's in a lot of big trouble that I'm not quite sure all the officials in there are all impressed with without my knowing anything about it except my hunch. However, I think it is quite clear that there are government officials at the Ministry who would probably like to bring the Agency in there and I thought the report given earlier today supported it, that at some point when these activities were to be moved all along into the Development Organization, the officials did not respond well. Today, too, quite a few discussions have been made about the arrival of the council. I don't think the arrival on the bill is very good, but they've been wondering about today's debate that we're going to change all of this somehow so that the Foreign Affairs Committee would be more comfortable with these jobs. The Senator made quite a point of speaking about the need to monitor these activities. If this were to go the worst, and the bill would be accepted as unchanged, it would not be obvious that the council, the council, had to go straight - and I'm not talking about some senators who are specially elected to some committee to go to Africa once a year or to something - or some Senate committee to keep up with this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u156	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I have that doubt, and as I said in my speech, and the minister may come into it when he closes 1. Um... "I find it strange when members of Congress are spoken of today, new members of Congress. First, as we have considered, not all members of the body of members of the committee receive a representative in view of the number of members mentioned. Perhaps that will be the case with the Foreign Affairs Committee. But at least I feel that this is a concern if there is no contact and consultation with a committee that is already active on this matter. What does it say that something will change when there's a member of the Senate committee, and it'll all be in the Ministry? At any rate, I believe that if you can ignore some Senate committee now, that must be possible later. I don't know if doing so in the way suggested here is necessarily a great improvement. That's why I don't fully understand the purpose, that one report seems to be left to the mind what's stated here, and you're obviously asking yourself which of them is behind. I have not said it any other way than that I find it strange when a minister says that everything that has been done and research that has been done so that it should be this way. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson drove it here today, that wouldn't be so. And I read here from the earlier SigurbourgeirSigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir that pointed out that this is not good. Many foreign ministers have resisted, but this foreign minister seems eager to do this. And I don't know if the officials are at work, although I don't necessarily expect them to have this evil affair here. But something is behind it that I feel is not clear and not clearly stated, either on the bill or on this report. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u157	A respectable president. In the 5th. It has been suggested that the minister of foreign affairs should submit a pact proposal every five years, instead of every second year. Then I understand, but it is not very clear, that there should be a plan of action every other year. It's supposed to be a five-year line. This means that less often the council is visited. But all of this is under the merit, from what I understand, that the laws on public financial matters are being changed. Now I'd like to ask you what. I don't know what that is. Can we be accepting some law on organizations, bringing organizations, and how to treat the council on the basis of that bill? Is it so far that it's likely that we'll agree with it over the next few weeks?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u158	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. About 5. In fact, I'm more inclined to agree that this conclusion is of longer than shorter value because I think it's such a lawsuit that we need to see a policy in the long run. Compare the government's financial situation, and we are happy to be looking at a little dose. Doesn't that make any sense to you, and you ask yourself, " Does it have any difference between Congress and election periods? ' This may not be nice, but I believe this is done for a long time, and I think that each year, in connection with the budget, the council can have something to say, i.e. within the framework of the Ministry of State when we accept financial laws. I'm not necessarily sure, however, that we will be able to accept new laws on government finance at this spring council, I don't think the situation necessarily points that point in that direction, and I feel that there is something to catch up with so that we on a financial committee can combine to handle it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u159	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir quoted earlier in Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir. I find it very interesting what she says about losing control in ways that I agree with, and I think it's kind of scary when it comes to increasing media control, which is causing natural transparency. I wondered, in view of the events of the last days, where we are headed in these issues when it comes to increasing central management and transparency and turning us away from democracy, Congress being ignored, and not taking note of protests or signing lists. What is our real goal, and where are we heading? I'm asking why. A senator will see what she can do and will agree with me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u160	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. Yes, this is one of the things we've talked about during the winter because it seems that the government is moving considerably toward a project, i.e. conducted by the council. There have been a series of prime warnings and cases that directly suggest ministers gain greater power in many matters, and there is, of course, one way in which we have talked about it. I agree that increasing the power of Ministers and when projects are brought into the Ministry are causing a problem and makes things visible to us members of my council. Regarding the case we're discussing, about the Developmental Cooperative Organization, it's an institution that provides us with routine effectiveness measurements and it's a special part of the budget, so we have much more to say about it, and we'll see much better what the Agency is doing than when it gets into the Ministry. Besides, and I didn't mention it earlier, that the development of a research agency is running out of a tremendously good website and a website called World Light, which comes out every week, and there's a lot of information about the Agency's activities. I can't see that the State Department, when the operation gets in there, can handle it, for example. something better than this, because the report includes: Talk about increasing information flows and stuff like that. This is not how I feel about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u161	A respectable president. Yeah, it's a bit of a weird development. You just ask yourself, " What's to be done with this? ' Where are we taking this development, and how are we really going to stop it? I'm asking why. A senator will see if she is in some position in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u162	A respectable president. It's best to change the government, I thought it was the best option. I think it would be a National Council and I would just do everything better than it is now. In any event, it is dangerous to the democracy that the execution of action increases its power in the way I used to trace it. I think it is very necessary that we at our plagion jobs and in committees try to prevent the best of our ability for bad things to go through, although, indeed, the government has more power and, of course, can take it and handle it, she cares. But I trust that the minister of foreign affairs, who initially spoke of his discourse on tripolitic reconciliation in the seminaries, will fulfill that statement. If there is quite a disagreement about the matter on a foreign matter committee, as he has heard here at the council, he will let the matter go and not hold it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u163	A respectable president. I'd like to start by praying. A senator is not making myself or anyone else's opinions. Hv. Today, a senator and other members of the council have established certain ideas and opinions. I will not defend it for any particular thing: the government is all accustomed to such things, but the mighty. However, a senator noted that the writer of the report, Þórir Guðmundsson, even thinking that he had some different thoughts, that the decision had been developed in advance, that the conclusion had been predestinated. I'd like to pray. A senator to back it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u164	A respectable president. I'd like to apologize if it was the highest. A minister has felt that I might do something special with him. I've said I find it strange, and I read up what was brought up on the news site today where the Ministry managers refused to sign, the Ministry Secretary's localemate refuses to sign. I'm not the one who says it, I'll read it up. [[Up front.]] It's part of the fact that you're wondering whether the government is in charge or the will of government alone. It is not unnatural to wonder. [[Up front.]] I'm not giving people opinions. Regarding the report of Þórir, the son of Guðmundsson, discussed here, only the highest legal structure. A minister proposes, then I wonder if the result is predestined because it is totally contrary to other conclusions that are unattainable. I feel that the depth, the research question, is missing, and I feel that, as if I traced to my case, had the minister listened, not present an analysis of how to achieve the goals set out there, to prepare it. That's one of the reasons I feel that way. Some of the report is very good, for example. on the subject that saw the report, you know yourself very well, I think they're very good. I don't think there's enough vision to be there, and there's more here to question if there's only one result, we should've gotten more results than this one. That's what I'd cast out and I'd have liked it better, the press for and the minister's sake, because he himself said that his case was based solely on this foundation. It would have been better for the whole thing and for the report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u165	A respectable president. I guess I didn't say it was based solely on the report, but what. A senator has not answered the question of whether she is, in effect, saying that the fine man who wrote the report had some different viewpoint at the time of the report, that in the preconceived views of his supposed outcome. This is made clear in his writings, if the senator has read the report of the son of Þórir Guðmundsson, of whom I have had doubts about how the work was done. The Senator has to answer what she means, whether she really has the opinion that the expert, Þórir Guðmundsson in this case, came to this job with the goal of moving the operation into the Ministry. I think the senator is the honour of this fine man who has served in the seminary for years, even decades. I think the Senator needs to answer that very clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u166	A respectable president. I'd like to remind the minister that I've read the report, I told you today, I've read this report, I've read the report of SigurbiggeirSigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir, and I've read the DEC report. So I'm well aware of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u167	... Sigurbjörg's report was out of the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u168	It was about the development team. Now, about the report I've been talking about today, I'm not going to weigh the man's honor at all, it's not about that. He even says himself somewhere, if I recall correctly he is on his own to be counted as the jury too duties so that he can be completely independent. [[At the end of the entrance.]] I would have wanted the bill based on more than just this one assessment of the case. The minister did not reason in his background that it was based on some other careful assessment if we were to make a careful analysis. We have other serious assessments. [[The president calls.]] He did not mention in his speech any other foundation of his case, nor did I question it. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I feel that the perspective of this report is such that the conclusion leads to this, because I feel that the study question is missing in the report. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm critical of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u169	A respectable president. I have a problem. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson explained our vocabulary. Ministers in reply earlier, so that I had asked questions and answers at the highest point. A minister was in such a way that this matter had actually been exposed and would not have to be told, in effect, to the point of my questions. I have a strong tendency to agree with that diagnosis. So if I agree that I didn't have to say anything more, a senator would have to think of it as a clear contradiction. I can take what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's beloved son was an example to me because he also had a very good speech earlier, where he exposed things in this system of things for all, e.g. that the reports of the OECD/DAC development committee and assessments of the development of the European Union's development work programme are by no means that the report would be asked in any way that the development of the European Commission would be submitted. Also, there's evidence in this case that I feel that there is no more to say, but still there is reason. A senator said other things. There is much to say. I find this amazingly strange. No matter what I try to do, I don't completely understand why we have to put down a development research agency and transfer it to the Ministry. I think it's a bit of a classy how we generally think administration in other matters. One reason given is that developing cooperation is one of the key roles of the Ministry of State. You can also say that tax and tax returns are among the key roles of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. Still, you would never think, and probably no one would think of bringing the government tax manager into the Ministry of Economics and all of them. The same is true of other agencies, law firms, roads, and so on. There are many obvious benefits of having important, complex classes of subjects and affairs in a special institution. It's under the Ministry and the Ministry has a policy role, but the Agency is responsible for the implementation. I would have thought that it would be more wise to promote the Agency if they wanted to participate in developing cooperation, for there are a number of factors in the bill's report that suggest that developing cooperation and development matters will even become a more important part of the work of foreign service in the coming years. If that's true, there are reasons to promote the Agency and bring these matters there. There is a measure of suspicion underlying, at least in my mind. It was adopted during the last term a very ambitious program in developing cooperation with a synonym at the General Assembly. This was done during times of crisis, during difficult times in government affairs, and in the nation's affairs. In principle, members of Parliament were willing to do well in developing cooperation even if it is an important group, and it is important that the Icelanders do not give up while there are times hard in the country, we do our work. This highly ambitious development teamwork program was adopted. The current government drew a great deal of land, drew back all the things that had been agreed on in that plan. Among other things, some members of the government were quoted as not believing that they would place much emphasis on developing issues while there were little money within the country in many of the necessary things here. Of course, one might wonder: " Which direction is it that I put down a developing research agency and then transfer my operations to the Ministry? Is it a step toward reducing developing cooperation even more important? In any case, in view of what the government has done in developing cooperation, I feel that there is a need for that question to be raised on the table and given consideration to the terms of developing cooperation. It's important to be clear. What's this about? Is this part of reducing development cooperation and its implications or factors in increasing it? I love developing cooperation, and I plan to assume that it is the highest. Ministers of foreign affairs are also, as are many members of Congress, and they are concerned that Iceland is good for developing cooperation and not for the submerges of other nations. When I think of how we should improve development cooperation and do well, I have to admit that it is not the first idea that comes to mind or that is a logical step to bringing the development team together, the two - sided development team to the Ministry. I don't think it sounds like a highly progressive step or a part of the structure of the group. I think we're going to do most of the lawsuits we want to emphasize, e.g. To do the same, tax and tax returns by moving the road into the State Department of the Interior and making it some department for filming. I think that if we look at the litigation field, it's very difficult to see that in some cases it would be a direct improvement for a very important and important group of subjects to transfer him to the Ministry. We, who requested a report to the minister of foreign affairs on planning development, requested that there be examples of when such steps had been taken in the community and why it would have had to be taken and if it had been improved. It is noteworthy in this issue of evolutionary cooperation that political solidarity is not being pursued, that is not political consultation. I don't fully understand why that is not done, because it was now being done successfully in 2008 when significant changes were made in these legislation and in all. It was very successful, and we are in agreement with other similar classes of subjects, e.g. Foreign and foreign languages Hv. paritaprevir Óttarr Proppé leads to cross - laity work in the Ministry of Internal Affairs to restore the laws of foreigners, immigrants. Hv. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's jealousy leads me to recall, the committee of consumers, and their legal affairs. Is it not always better to do things this way? I don't insist that the Battle of the Future be committed in all cases to such work, but is that not good? And why not there? I don't quite get it. It is a bit paradox in logical reasoning that in fact, it is very clear that a developing research agency has done a very good job. That doesn't seem to be the source of this bill. However, the report describes the need to solve some problems, e.g. need to coordinate development cooperation and, as I noted, in my question to the minister of opposition earlier, ensure that they speak in one voice in foreign affairs and when it comes to developing cohesion. But there is nothing completely missing in the report showing that the procedure is not working exactly as it is now. You don't quite understand what you're doing. It doesn't show properly in there. It is also very unclear, for example, whether these issues would be better settled within the Ministry for monitoring and if there will be a professional basis for measuring the results of all development work, and whether the Ministry can do better than development research now in achieving measurable results. Another thing I feel is that the ministry is closed, I think you can say it without insulting anyone. The Ministry is not exactly a flagship of free government. It is often difficult for civilians to approach city officials. Perhaps this is part of it, the ministry needs work, and within the table there are financial agencies. It is not easy for us to make up the Ministry of finance, to contact humans at the financial office. At the Ministry of Health, there is someone who cares for the disabled, and it's not every day that people get to their audience. In the Department of Agriculture, someone's thinking about organic farming and stuff, but few know who he is. You know what it's like. This is the nature of the advisers. Evolution is not like this, and the institutions aren't like this. They're more open and they should be, and they can do better. For example, the development of a research agency publishes literature. You get it in your mailbox right here. You get information about what the Icelanders are doing in developing cooperation, at least on two-sided projects, and you get more insight into their importance. The Agency handles specific P.R. in the interest of the exuberance. This is one example of how important it may be that an institution is under a ministry that may have free hands handling the seminary. The key point is, you don't really know exactly what's wrong with this right now. This is referred to the report by Þórir Guðmundsson and his assessment of this arrangement. He certainly suggests that the Ministry of Development is accepted as part of the Ministry. But when I read the assessment, and though I respect the person, I feel that he has too much faith in the Ministry on behalf of this lawsuit group. I also feel that while one man writes a report or a check, and it can be okay, it is by no means enough in this. I feel that there is a need for more opinion and I feel that the next assessment of the OECD or DEC development committee needs to be made on how the system is now. I think it's a little strange. One man writes an assessment on behalf of the Ministry, which is quite interesting and is well developed by the agency. He'll give it back to me, in June or August 2014, and it's right here as a bill. There is no political agreement and no consultation, and you wonder: " What about other reports, many of which are extremely careful, and beyond, in comprehensive discussions of politics and professional life? For example, there was an entire constitution in a democratic way, and yet there is no problem pushing it aside or setting up the green economy and creative articles and this and this, suggestions that were subjugated to people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If they were to get as much ruse through the council as this opinion of Guðmundsson Gudmundon, much would be good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u170	Mr. President. Hv. One senator said: "Why not get more opinion than just this? I think it's a little bit of a matter. There is too close between the Red Cross and the State Department so that only an employee of the Red Cross can be considered. It should be noted that the employee is sufficiently good enough to write this in particular to the entrance. He explains this, literally saying: "I have this in my book, and those reading the report should keep this in mind. Good for him. I had that in mind. The report's fine for its hat. Yet, I do not agree with it, as it were. A senator said, he made a very good account of his conclusion. The report is not very different from the milestone report sent by the writer. Three possibilities are outlined there. This final outcome may not come like the demon from the sheep arm, but it could be seen through the other, but that was not the outcome at first. So I'll take it as one of the core particles out of the matter. A senator when he says there should have been more perspective. For example, there should have been someone's best friend out of the accelerator, where humans have studied these studies. What's the worst part of this is the highest. Minister, in his speech and in the paper, literally treated us as a bit of a fool and didn't expect anyone to have read the DAC. But people have read it. It will reveal that what is at its height. A minister said, among other things, that it was that the tip of those who were under attack on this change does not pass the test of reality. I'm not going to take it further. What do you think? A senator of such a lawsuit?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u171	A respectable president. Like what? A candidate in his speech pointed out in a rudimentary way, even to the point that there had been no more need to say in this matter. A minister in the bill -- where he somehow points to the DiaC report, never directly says that it suggests that this is done - is a bit strange, of course. They are trying to support the report on this project. It may have become something of the highest order. The minister of the foreign government to make things blurred and to leave them in some way, which has caused him to talk about his final accomplishments in this regard. But I think it's weird. Of course, we are to wait for the next assessment of the Agency or the OECD Development Committee on these matters. I also wondered: " What is the rush? Now it's a group of paintings that I think very many people care about in themselves. There's no sort of politics, I think, in this, unless some senators are a little more against developing cooperation than others and have expressed it, and that's their right. But I think there's a wide-scale solidarity here at the council to do a good job on this. Then I think it's key, if we're going to do well in this, to build it on good enough information. Then one person's report, which is exactly linked to this party, as he himself says, is just not enough, obviously not. Why, as I discussed in my talk, not in advance of a parapolitic discussion of this in a much earlier stage? Why not? I don't understand the truth, and why no further opinion is being sought and I don't understand why they don't ask for an assessment... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u172	Mr. President. I picked up this particular title in my talk, one of the reasons why I was already angry with it. Minister, I thought, went very hard on someone else. A senator, Shining Bjarkey of Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, earlier by informing her of strange motives. The writer literally tells people to read the report through the red crossglasses he has on his own. Then I'll come back to the first answer. A senator I thought was so brilliant here today and so important. They asked why. The governor's senator. A minister of the examples when he said: Except for the FAC report, there were only material arguments with this approach, except for that. A senator read on page 18 in this article. 8 that speaks of doubleness, which refers to the misunderstanding and need for management. Hv. A senator asked for an example. He knows the answer. No examples of conflict. Perhaps some minor ones, while the minister thought so. But what, under the grammatical corner, we already call it the highest. A minister uses such words as ◯ biplicives, such as ◯ conflicters, in his report but cannot find it? I'll tell you what. A senator what I call it, based on my grammar angle. I call it pimps. That's what's at the top. A minister was falsely accusing the senator of earlier, and she answered well for herself, doing so himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u173	A respectable president. Doubs are a very good Icelandic word and a fine set of values, and they are fine for the occasion. The whole report seems to me that the form is an explanation of how things were going to be and what problems can not be encountered. There is no room for biography in evolutionary cooperation, and there is a need to speak in one voice and so on. It's filled up with someone -- Yeah, a little bit of so-called sentences. [[Up front.]] The next question to be faced, and there's a bit of a sign coming up on a cover, is: "Wait a minute, isn't it all right? Is the conclusion to conclude from all of this that it is not right now? If there's a need for foreign politics from Iceland to be reflected in all development activities, and so on, is it to say that they don't? The interesting thing in answering the highest. A minister before my question is that he could no longer mention an example of a failure in these matters. I don't think people should put in a bill about something like this, and in any case, they're not supposed to support the bill with a paper like this. There's got to be some other logic. I'll tell you right now. I'm one ear. I am very open to hear very convincing evidence that the Bureau of Development should be put down and put in the Ministry. But the fact that a developing research agency is doing well, that it is not guilty of any of the problems mentioned in the report, that is not evidence. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u174	A respectable president. This issue is not unique, and it is still one pearl of the long nuptial crumbling of the government. Here is yet another visit to a council case that is unfounded and incomprehensible, and we senators wonder what comes from the minister's head and what motives are really behind, which I think are very bad. As noted in the answers to simple questions, I don't like it when people actually avoid the conversation. A senator earlier; what is the problem in the first place, and second, what is the situation? Only these two things make you feel like there's enough to stop, but once again, it's like a famous movie, that you're standing here, and you don't understand anything, and the minister of state sits on the Ministerial Office, and it's not making any sense. What I want to ask you is why. A senator - because I agree with what appeared in the exchange of words. The two members of Congress that this is unusually rich in coverts, i.e. This report. It's really very serious that it's this loaded up with pimps, a bill that a minister puts in for his own organization, and not for the first time. [[Take it up for the first time, and not for the first time.]] This is not to build a moral, strong, and logical foundation under the highest of decisions. Minister, followed by the council. So I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament is particularly concerned with the presence of the assembly. I think it's very vague on the bill. par., what exactly is meant by them all? Indeed, the coming of the council is not clear enough as it is today. But would it be any clearer if the bill were legal in terms of both policy and monitoring? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u175	A respectable president. No, I don't think it's getting much clearer. I'm something, and maybe no chance, agree with it. paritaprevir Óttar Proppér, who did this earlier in his talk that two conferences a year are expected to handle these matters, and it is hardly exactly so. Then, too, I agree with criticism. paritaprevir The Árni of the year Páll the Árnason of Aarnar are about to be arranged for a committee of members of Congress. For example, it seems that not all classes are expected to have access to it. It also frightens us, for example, the way it was carried out by an order to a radio council that gave a clear statement for trying to meet democratic views, that was the whole paradox. Obviously, this is something that needs to be discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u176	A respectable president. Happily, this group of litigators has been described as follows that when suddenly a very loud question signal arose, people have sought to achieve some crosspolitic reconciliation and crosspolitic cooperation in the seminary, and it is really uninterrupted until at the beginning of this election period. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and outright opposition to contributions to development cooperation. I can't see it any other way. It is, in fact, the only protection on our path that we see to be a tangible and clear reason why evolutionism now needs to be brought closer to political power. So it must be. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. It's her line that controls it or what thinks it is. A senator of that? It is good to remember here the discussion of the co-ordination of the Government Declaration on the Enforcement of the Nation's Cohesion Power and disappearing from the controversies and vices that have marked the community, until this government was expected to take over. But here it seems again, and he made it memorable last week, conducted a question of war, i.e. does not mean that in such a gaming group, he would choose, in effect, the opposite direction. A man is wondering, if it is the brother - in - law of the jury as he is, in one case after another, or we are talking about political reversals in style. paritaprevir The Hauksdóttir, which is reflected in this case here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u177	A respectable president. I think it's safe to say, I don't think that there's ever been anything particular in the history of this government, but that it's so efficient not to activate the cohesion powers. Maybe it was a print error, but the government isn't going to activate the cohesive power, it's just going to activate. Period. In this regard, we can ask ourselves, " What is the meaning of the Mosaic Law covenant? ' Let's take a look at this group of subjects. As I mentioned in my speech, there is a group of lawsuits where I think that is such a wide deal, perhaps on the outside. þm. Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who said his opinion on the subject that reflected, I don't think I want more part of the U.S. Congress. [[Up front.]] But I think there's a lot of peace in trying to be good at developing cooperation. Then it is approved by this ambitious synopsis of a developing teamwork program in which Iceland in times of crisis, very difficult times, they say in this hall that they will try to do well in developing cooperation and try to achieve the desired and short - term goals for those things. The government retracts this, and one of the basic statements in this declaration has been made to all, and at the same time, the stated words come at a time. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir that helping some people out of the world should not be a priority at all. Then I'd say, first this is what the government has done in development cooperation, that there's an extra reason for the government and for the highest. Minister of State to do well with such a bill, if he wants to bring it in, and based it on crosspolitic cooperation, it is based on good analysis. I'd say and considering the way the bill is made, that it really should, well, it would only be the most logical thing to skip this bill compared to what has been done so far in developing cooperation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u178	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator and his findings answer to me that the most neat thing to do would, of course, be to retract the matter. This is not a good thing, and there is no need to fight about it. There's no hurry. There's nothing wrong, there's no record of any particular problem, and if it's not exactly about fulfilling any dreams of reducing the number of government institutions, it's really completely incomprehensible. I don't even mention that this is a fairly creative list of the eco-efficiency groups for those topics, but this may not include any economic management in the traditional sense. Of course, it would be best to retract the matter. However, at the administrative point, we have considered that there is good reason to look into certain issues. We've requested the arrival of the People's Reexamination, and then there's also a very detailed report request for the council, and both must be of the magnitude and the extent that the council will consider it as well as treat it, as well as the payment and discussion of the case on the State Department. V.E.G. A minister must consider this, that he believes that it is acceptable to bring the matter up and down to the council, and especially the fact that the report is a bit overwhelming. There is something that institutions should not have to do with a minister unless there is evidence to it and that is the basis for making such a statement, because this is nothing else. And now I'm enjoying my grammar education, which rarely occurs in the General Meeting's speaker because it's the highest. The secretary says, with permission from the President: In addition to the government's voice speaking of international development cooperation, it is also possible to ensure that all contact with foreign countries and developing institutions are coordinated and in harmony with Iceland's foreign policy. In this way, not only do we have a counterargument but it is strongly suggested that Iceland's Development Group is out of shape with Iceland's foreign policy and that the Icelandic government does not speak in one voice about developing international cooperation as the European Development Agency of Iceland is at hand. It goes on to say that the change in global landscapes call for a change in approach to development, and then it is listed but no evidence is being made that the Iceland Development Agency as it is now ordered cannot capture these changes and put them into action as well as anything else that it has done. There is no such thing as showing or suggesting in any other way that the European Development Agency is not successful in carrying out all the work that it has under the law. It's not appropriate to be the highest. Ministers contribute this and show by their coverts not only the distrust of their own organisation but also the understanding that the only way for a government office to follow official policy is to use discipline to force the project into the Ministry. We must be very concerned because the Toresses of Guðmundsson Gudmundon in the report on this precise aspect are very common, that government policy is better paid in councils than in institutions. What, then, should we say about the Environment Agency or Organization, institutions that are very close to me as former environmental minister? How do people see the danger of not speaking in a single voice of environmental or organizational matters or of any other matter that we have committed to the administration or to the institutions of the State? Then there's another story, and it's that the government's working two ways in this regard. At one site, projects are being moved out of the budget, specific administrative projects, such as to form from the Ministry of Education into the National Institute of Education, a project previously located in the Ministry of Education, while this bill is being prepared in the other direction. There is no overall view of how we want to develop the face and main structure of the European Commission. Do we want to have little ministry and strong institutions, or do we want big, powerful ministry and small institutions? The discussion has never been taken. Rather, it is the council that deals with some undefined debate that comes from the rest of these advisers and points in different directions. Why is that? Because there's no job management, there's no perspective, that's because the Board of Directors doesn't particularly qualify at the Watch. That's why. We've got a lot of issues relating to tourists with Iceland, nature protection, electrical lines, framework, infrastructure bill, currency bill, etc. and this is all going to work in two different committees, and there's no overall vision. One case after another is that we are not part of the total thinking of the way we are going. It's random, it's presented almost as a sign in the Constitution that you've filed a case. Why would you choose the highest. A minister not to base on the fine political solidarity that this has established? We've been testifying, and I think we should read it once a day, the Declaration of the Agency and the Independence Party. It was a memorable day on Lake Saturday, since they were a lot happier than they are today. It says, by permission of the President: The government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have long been marked by Icelandic politics and discussions in the community. The progress and improved standard of living in Iceland have been based on cooperation and cohesion, and for the future Icelanders will continue to work together on the main projects of society. I pronounce the matters presented in the spirit of this policy, for surely it is not this matter of Congress as discussed here. It is not merely a rule in a report, it is also a matter of conflict because the minister has not even attempted to obtain a crosspolitic approach or crosspolitic work or a discussion or an update in presenting the matter. It's totally unacceptable. We have discussed here the importance of developing as much as other institutions of society can enjoy professional independence in some sense, and there is indeed a conflict of conflict that all governments and government agencies face. It is the need for political policies and to see a place in the implementation of institutions and, on the other hand, a distance from the politicians, which establish stability between governments, a policy that survives the election. In other words, the approach that we are not in Iceland's antiquities politics, where a new government comes and throws an investment plan, throws out a green economy, and throws away everything they did because it is part of a major part of it. It is dangerous if we have the approach in such a delicate group, which we have no reason to believe is the objective of what we have seen in the work of the present government, that it is about hardening political control and increasing the possibility that the politicians can turn their hand around, can make a lot of changes, can turn their backs on parapolitic work. There's a lot at stake because what's also at stake in this sort of language is an agreement with the general public and an agreement with those best known in the sector, not to some one as Þórir Guðmundsson himself says, remember that it's the face of the Red Cross, remember that we need to look at more angles. What is at stake is exactly what is stated in the declaration of policy, and it depends on cooperation and cooperation for the future. That's what matters, and it's at stake and it's setting the top. Minister at risk with the bill because developing cooperation is not just about us at the council. They have to deal with the understanding of what it is to be an Icelander in the society of the nations. It matters to our self - image how we participate in development cooperation, and it is not something that we end up doing with elections every four years. It is a covenant that has far deeper roots in the national soul than it can be obtained in this way. That's why it can be the highest. Ministers not rightly suggest a case that upsets the understanding of Icelandic society as he does here. A respectable president. Finally, I would like to mention the fact that if development cooperation is fully shifted under the Ministry, we have a position, as noted in the discussion that the Ministry needs self-monitoring, if any surveillance is to be carried out in the process of developing cohesion. If there is any need for the surveillance to be separated from the executives, it is in the case of those who enjoy government decisions so far away that their voice is not heard at the table of those making decisions. Therefore, there should be clear separation between the project and the Rapporteur, otherwise unacceptable. In other decisions that we are working on in our community and that are sufficient to mention organizational matters, employment permits, pollution issues, etc., the stake is close to those making the decision and having clear and defined ways to promote their views. That's not the case. That is why we need to be even more careful in this regard than in general and walk, and here I fear that we are still on our one journey not only with bad and evil things but with time - back issues, not into the future and the developments that we need to see in this series. First of all, I say this case is to be pulled back and the highest. It is to be won over by a ministerial minister in pretteenths, a parapolitic work. We've got plenty of time to do that, we're supposed to wait for the 2016 report, and we're gonna wait for the monitors and the best known to get to the best conclusions in such a precious and important case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u179	Mr. President. Hv. For example, a senator mentioned that if the example is set in this bill, it might be expected that shortly, without anyone saying anything, it would be necessary to place other agencies in the Ministry. She mentioned some of the institutions under the Ministry as a matter of fact. A senator led while she was a minister. I'd like to give you one historic example. A fishing room was created in the fishing department. It was part of the Marine Department. It was taken out of it because it was thought that such an institution was in there. For what? For one thing, perhaps it is the nature of that institution more than others to pronounce a number of decisions and grant permission that needs immediate action. Then let's get back to the Development Organization and the Ministry and how it distributes funds. In the past government, there was a significant increase in the share of independent communities. This was not particularly because that government was so good with an independent organization. Rather, it has been in this way in international development working that a growing share of the money is given in that way. The DMA report that we've mentioned so many times here clearly shows that we're there by boat. The plan was according to the current plan to increase it. It is clear, then, because it is done on the basis of certain conditions that grew ever more rigid and formalized, more formalized in them when the end of the last term, that some time will come, and sooner, one will want to shoot the conclusion. That's why I felt the need to move this over at sea. What is to be done in the future when such a situation arises? I use it to stress that this is not going to work out under a administrative reality. [[The president calls.]] Somewhere in the future, the citizens have to be able to shoot their case, but it's not possible in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u180	President. Of course, you're right. To be honest, I had not thought out on the exact aspect of what had been. A senator refers to administrative decisions that actually involve the interest of free partners and lawyers in Iceland, which can then be in the position of making a decision in the Ministry, and there is no one to shoot the decision or sue the decision. There is no way to turn the case to a higher administrative level, as is the principle set out in Icelandic government. This is yet again an example of the misdeeds of the matter. That is not really the end of the matter. This quickwriter is creating a new problem, making new tasks that result from this conclusion. It is also missing completely in the report with the bill that the defects of this approach are tore. What negative decision is made here? Whatever it is. One of them is surely mentioned by one of the senators, that the trial is not guaranteed, and the security is not guaranteed by the way it is acceptable in Iceland. Because of what? A member of the Council of Fish, an example of a ministry project that was taken out from there, is convinced that if we were to review the development of the Commission in Iceland, we could list a number of such projects from the Ministry and to the administrative institutions, especially since it is important to ensure justice, but also because the Ministry would require a measure of privacy to be the site of political policy and overall vision for the future while the institutions have a specific and shared role in the overall work of law at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u181	Mr. President. Hv. A senator, in view of its talks, has a Christian spirit in his heart. In fact, she is willing to forgive even when she is faced with a difficult decision at times. I cut by his opponent before he said what. A senator would still be willing to cooperate with the minister. I agree with that. At the beginning of my talk, I stressed that I would truly be willing to put myself at least my party would join the minister to cut away the various materials he has shown. They're minor, but they have to consult. It's a decision made, and after that discussion, I might say, " Because of it. ' V.E.G. A minister has no argument, he doesn't talk to us, he just sits thunders in his seat and doesn't answer questions, so I want to ask him why. A senator: After the Supreme Court, it counts. A minister has, like an elephant, squeezed this porcelain under his feet, made it possible to stick these pieces together and return to a social, natural approach to this category, which has always been the members of the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u182	A respectable president. We're gonna go for a second. A senator sits on a good committee under control. Proppér Óttar review of foreigners, which is an example of a delicate but broad case where an attempt to establish a tripolitic solidarity is intended. That subject is complex and, in fact, ideal land for tension, for political conflict. Yet, despite all the noise at times here, we have been tempted to continue our work, and it has been noticed. There was a fundamental understanding of the value at stake, i.e. that the alien law would have to be so that it survived elections, that it would have to endure swings, turning points, etc. Here we are talking about the same kind of case, a case that must be based on a solid, parapolitic foundation. I'm sorry, I haven't seen anything of the highest order yet. Secretary of state today, in the pursuit of such work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u183	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the talk and join her in many things. I have no intention of trying to be positive about matters brought by the government, and even if a messenger is an applicant, I will not be distracted by that. I'd like to be positive and open to things, and maybe you could sell it to me if your argument was better. It may well be practical to have employees who care for these matters in the same place. You can also ask yourself, " Is it a good idea to transfer the State Department to the Agency? ' If I read the report, there are many things that are in the eye, such as the one on the page. 8. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ A more complex and more targeted organization will increase the likelihood that Iceland's goals and priorities in international development cooperation will be achieved and will result in more efficient development cooperation. Then I feel that it is not being efficient as it is today and that my goals are not fully met. Also says: With the change, there will be a better overall view of the group, and it will be better to ensure that Iceland's legal policy is carried out.• Is it not, then, properly carried out today? It also states: It's gonna be a challenge to develop and enforce Iceland's focus, to say it's been some kind of failure, if I understand correctly, and an increasing chance to implement Iceland's policy in a more targeted way. This has not been done in a specific way. If it's a real position, it's the highest. I'd like an example from a minister. That's why I think it's so important to wait for reports and checks. What does it say? A senator about it because it's a bit strange, so I'm saying.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u184	A respectable president. As I put it in my speech and mentioned in the discussions tonight, these are really more than guesswork, these are really virtues, and from the minister's hand, it's not an acceptable thing. You can't make your shoes that an institution doesn't work without preparing it for examples or some sort of assessment. It just doesn't work as a Minister's report. Everyone must realize it, so I agree with it. Senator. You're right. A senator says, of course, it's important to approach all Congress in a positive way, and I think that's the purpose for all of us to do so. On the other hand, the picture is gradually drawn, that is, what we watch right now when the ideal period is about halfway around that it is drawing up a certain picture. So this case is not a sign of work alone, of overall vision, or of what it is now in this particular minister, but of the management and approach of the government as it demands, of randomity, and of ill planning, one after another, which may be dismissed or unregistered in committees, etc. Sadly, this is one of those issues. How long did we talk about the natural pass here, and what news is there on that subject? There are more and more matters that we could mention here at the council, such as a complete bill of primes, which seems not even to have received a Critic debate on the members of the Government, which seems to me at any rate in relation to the highest letter. Minister of last week is just a time stamp for execution. I don't think they've been waiting for what this case is like, have they? Or has this case been reviewed? Is this after reform? [[The president calls.]] I don't know. [[The president calls.]] But this is certainly not a matter of any kind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u185	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator spoke of the environment, that we had little ministry and larger institutions. It varies from country to country, and if I understand that, then the Minister of Education is just planning to take a case out of the Ministry and put it into an institution. Hv. A senator said that there seemed to be no plan there because there might be reasons for strengthening the Ministry and taking on a certain project. You wonder, " What is the outcome of the surveillance of those tasks? ' What's interesting here is that one ministry does something else, and another agency does something else. It's as if people don't talk to each other or they don't have a policy in these matters. I want to hear something about it from what? Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u186	A respectable president. I have generally felt that after I met the Board of Directors myself that there is a great need to strengthen the Ministry, and then I'm not talking about adding projects, but I'm talking about strengthening the Ministry as they are in order to increase the rate of speech, to increase the security of the citizens. The report of the General Commission and the findings after work required support for the administration. We haven't done enough in it, and the current government cut down all the Ministry just one hand by 5% last year, actually random, which they needed to react to themselves. It's all out of concern all the way from this matter. But because of him. A senator asked if it was like that people didn't talk, yes, it's like that. It's like there's no perspective and no job management.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u187	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for a good speech. While she read up from government policy, I thought about television programs that I find so fun and hot Game of Throns, and there is the repeated sentence of are wind, or words being wind. I think we'll learn this as part of living with people, that words may not be very significant, you're looking at what people do rather than what they say. But I ask if it's appropriate that it applies to members of Congress who promise things to the public, and we choose them, our vote is actually based on promises, if they don't have to be somebody responsible for their comments at the council, if they can be said some beautiful word to the air, and then they just don't matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u188	A respectable president. It is natural that one of the important things in politics is to remember and to keep words in order. Now, the day is coming when the declaration of cooperation by this designated government is turning up in its resistance, and it is actually becoming a document that bites because of how ridiculous it is, because of the amazing contradictions it is to claim that the government has proposed a plan to activate cohesion and to reduce social conflict. Two years later, the process is so intense, and it has become so many that you cannot list it in a single two - minute answer. And it has become so that at human gatherings you need nothing more than to read this one sentence, you don't even have to follow it, because it makes sense to everyone how exposed the government is, in fact, to be a government at war in one case after another. People have to be responsible for what they say, and it is, of course, our job to keep people on the subject, our role in the government field, is to draw out when words and actions do not work together, and unfortunately for Iceland, there have been quite a number of reasons.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u189	Mr. President. I find something interesting, but we've only been talking about Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir. She has said just how much she wants to argue. Minister of this case is not able to resist. She says on a news station, with the permission of a president: ▪ They fail to pass administrative criteria, do not meet criteria for good administrative or administrative structure and emphasis here on the population, which is a greater distribution control. I think, if this is the government policy to move away from the administrative structure and emphasis here on the people, whether we citizens of the country can't ask the government members to come to the door as they are dressed and put it in their policy sheet.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u190	A respectable president. It is certainly so that if it were just a administrative center that would be beneath them, it might be simple, but we are here also talking about an enormous value. For example, in this discussion, which has lasted all day and is about ten o'clock, not one individual independent has answered except in one answer. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, president of the Committee that accepts the case, and the other member of the board has the highest authority. Secretary of state. He has not seen why to give a talk here. How are we to finish 1st? if we do not have a discussion with any independent or chief. The minister of state sits there and does not participate in the discussion. At the same time, we have some problems, but obviously we need to speak clearly because we need to get out and the public will need to know what the situation in the Icelandic Parliament is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u191	A respectable president. First, just what was said was the last of it. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. It is natural for each member of the board to address the issue and at least try to establish a vision on his part or defend the minister of the discussion and give him considerable support in what he is doing. It makes you wonder, " Is it all the same and seems to be in a lot of other matters brought in by this government - or not because, as we also know, they don't bring it here - that men don't specifically consult with the council, neither their own people, nor we who don't belong to the rules? ' Clearly, there is no reason to be here and agree or to follow the case with the minister. A respectable president. I have to admit, I haven't been much of this language. I have observed these matters and have been very happy when the entire legal hearing was adopted in 2008, so that it could be understood better. He was given clear goals and means to follow and thereby to follow. That's why I'm surprised that so soon afterward, people are going to do the U-turns that are being offered without a review, for example, of the National Review of the Act of 2008. The government has requested that such an assessment be made, and the president of the council has agreed. The directors of the ruling parties have sent letters to the Government Accounting, asking them to appreciate this change. I find it extremely difficult to understand why it is the highest. Minister's doing so hard. As I said earlier, in the first place, the overall legislation on the seminary was adopted, which included the Agency's gaining considerable flexibility, made significant changes in the category of languages that have proved to be effective. Second, it is clear that the evaluation of the Agency's degradation has been requested by the council, i.e. administration by Government Accounting, and is requested. Third, it has been noted in our discussion that the OECD development team, the DiaC referred to here, is working to the equality of a developing research agency to be completed in 2016. So I don't understand why it's the highest. A minister does not want to take a deep breath and wait for the assessment to be done. There's nothing going on. At the same time, we can work for solidarity in the group of litigators, for it is important that we remain united in that regard. This is a group of paintings that we should be able to keep pace, and in recent years and decades people have worked hard to make a solidarity in it. But the highest. It seems as if there are so many others that there's a lot of difference between the motto and the motto: I think something, and that's how it's gonna be. It can't end well. I don't understand why men are ready to move in like this without making any effort. What's behind, too, and it makes me wonder why this is the case, is that in addition to the factors mentioned earlier, different people have won reports and assessments of the group and have not reached the same conclusion. These are people I value, both in the field of development and administration, i.e. Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir and Þórir Guðmundsson along with others who have been involved or have come to the assessment. Not all humans have reached the same conclusion. So I don't understand why I can't wait for an peer dinner, why can't you wait for the administration, see what it reveals, and then take it all together, process it, and try to reconcile the plans for the future. You don't have to go out like that. That won't be necessary. You wonder, " Is it still the only way to go?'Because the Conspiracy ever came up with this matter and came to make the overall legislation necessary to make changes. We've heard in the past that it's impossible for that group to have left behind something, and it's best to eliminate it. At least the evidence is no stronger than that, so you think about it. Here are some viewpoints regarding the group of litigators. It grieves me and many others, and it has been observed during the discussion, that it seems that this government does not intend to follow the interpretation of a particular program for development, as well as some of the other members of Congress that have been approved at other councils. The problem is with the Senate conclusion that it has improved. It is a human requirement, and if it is required to be submitted, we should assume that they should follow it. I don't understand what matters are about terms of action if those who have actually improved are not even followed. It's the same thing with a frame plan. There's a synopsis that has actually improved, which has a protection party, and it's prescribed by the law how to handle the part of the Senate, but it's decided to ignore it. The same applies to the synopsis of development support, it is not followed. When we're at the General Assembly, we're going to have a non-committee, we're going to need to think about how the European Commission interacts with the European Commission and what the task force is supposed to be longer. I'm worried that I feel that this is an act of subjugating democracy in that the credibility of the institutions is being undermined, i.e. The legislature and the executive, with this association on Congress resolutions and legislation. There's something else I'd like to mention that I don't quite know. paritaprevir Savavar's Svandís, Sagas, has mentioned it. Svavarsdóttir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, huh? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson and others have established it, and that's the odd thing that is being suggested, that an institution which is a candidate should enter the Ministry. The institutions that have a clearly defined task have legislation on which to control it and provide them with a view to where to go and a clear explanation of what to do in the Ministry. I don't remember any of those. I've been at the Ministry for Ministers, and this is like if we at the Ministry of Industrial Affairs had decided at the time that it was best for a travel agency or a Department of Creations to enter the Ministry. It's not going together. There's nothing normal about such institutions going into the Ministry just like that. What, then, are we saying? So we're saying that the Ministry is supposed to be some kind of combination of an inspector, manager and policy maker? Then the Ministry is on every side of the business. It's much cleaner to have policies and surveillance in the councils than to leave institutions on the project. This, of course, can be considered in any way that the institutions can be supported. In this case, it could well be moving more projects to the development network, rather than going in this direction. I'm really thinking about this whole thing, and I'd love to get to the top. A minister would give us an example in which such cases are in place or at least a consideration and would tell us whether this is the beginning of the expansion of the development of a government agency in the Ministry. Then we'll look up some different government. It is to be told us if this is part of a plan for such things, what men will do with it, and where to end it. You can't start with something like this without knowing how to end it. I'll think of more of these institutions and boils. You think about Technical Development Fund, Rannis. There are all kinds of agencies that act on behalf of counselors who have no place in councils. I'm in the opinion that it is here, at least. This needs to be reasoned considerably better than on the bill. In my opinion, the Ministry of State has, in many respects, suffered more cuts than the Ministry deserves in recent years and losses, especially during the past two years. It is in a way that the presidents of the financiers who represent the two members of the administrations have decided to have the State Department carry a far greater cut than the Ministers of finance and the Ministry of finance have proposed. It has made me feel bad because the State Department has a lot of important work on its hands, including the development team that we are supposed to contribute to the handsomedest nation in the world. You wonder if a person can see the practicality of taking agencies into the Ministry for the cuts that the Ministry has had. What will be the result for each trial class? I feel that we too need to consider the matter in that light. At least there is a protection now for the jury to the budget board and the head of the budget to have it in a special agency, considering that a foreign committee appears to be in their cutting-off. I have to say, I don't understand anything about this situation. I hope to the highest. Ministers will see for themselves and tell us that he is willing to wait for a job to be done on behalf of DiaC and Government Accounting. I hope to the highest. Ministers and others share in the discussion with us and strive to answer the questions that have been raised. It is not possible day after day and night after night in one case after another to settle the situation and try to do his job by ignoring it, not answering questions, and not responding to comments or anything. Day after day, people fail in their part of the council by acting that way. I'm just hoping you can get a hold of yourself and come over here and have a conversation about it. These are urgent and important questions presented here. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister again, hoping that he will answer it in the final speech or sometime today, whether he is not ready to wait for the results of the assessment I mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u192	A respectable president. I want to take this opportunity here and say the word. A senator, I feel very sad about how little conversation takes place, especially when it turns out that the matter has been repeated in this council during the winter as the discussion actually unfolds. We can review natural passes to form, we can talk about a frame plan that is under conditions, you feel that it is repeated here on the part of a minister or more part of committees that are unconcerned, and then the discussion is not taken or the discussion is not taken. I agree with that. A senator, of course, does not agree. I'm also asking, like, what? Senator: Where are you? For example, members of the Independence Party in this discussion? What is their position on this matter, or have they not developed any attitudes, have they not considered the matter? You might draw that conclusion from observing these discussions at least. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament, in particular, is now experienced in the management of the Ministry and the council. What is stated as the aim of this change - and I am putting a large question mark on the development of the changes - in a report, by President's permission, that a better overall vision is achieved by the group, better ensure that Iceland's policy in the seminary is carried out, easier to develop and enforce Iceland's priorities and more opportunities to implement the international media policy. All of this sounds very good, but there are no reports of failure to enforce Iceland's policies so far. And what I want to ask you is why. A senator's experience in managing different problems: What does it matter to have such professions in the Ministry directly? Is it not easy for a minister to implement his policy even in the case of independent professionals?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u193	A respectable president. I did not consider it in my speech that I also find strange paradoxs in the report and then what has been written about the Agency. In each of the assessments referred to in the report on the bill and in any of the assessments made, the Agency is precisely commended for its effectiveness. For example, DAC specifically says that in many ways Iceland is a model in these matters, and it works well, making good use of the money that goes to the lawsuit, making it sound like paradoxes. It's nice to use such words when people are trying to enforce what they want, but there are no examples, and I think it's a little worse. I don't know about that, and I think that other Ministers of the current government would probably say the same thing, that it's a problem to have a ministry and then some powerful organizations to handle the project. It always comes through, law accepted by the Council, or policy that comes out of the budget is very effective. I don't understand the obstacles to be facing there. Of course, it's more convenient if they want to do so, so they sit inside their office holding on to the Mockest way and making all the decisions themselves directly, then this is likely to be an easier arrangement. But it's not that kind of administration we'd like to see here. We want to have the professional in this, and I think it's better placed in a special institution, as is true of other institutions that carry out such projects. I think we should rather ask the Minister what example he had of such an institution in the Ministry, that an institution was taken directly into the Ministry. I don't think he can give us any examples there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u194	A respectable president. It is good for the government to be on the scene in an effort to break these issues, for it must raise questions to the public in the country that such issues such as these are placed on the council as priorities, i.e. To make changes in the development organization, without any changes, as well as in the course of action. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir notes that there are no examples that directly represent good role models or that present - day pots are broken. I mentioned this in my speech earlier: At the General Assembly, I want the management board to take its energy and time to be able to fix things that are not broken when it is not even possible to understand the purpose of the procedure? So I'd like to ask you why. A senator - not that she is in a position to know, but she may have ideas about it - what the purpose of the bill is. If we don't have any doubt that the bill will achieve the proposed objectives of improving the administration, if we don't exactly see where it needs to be improved, then what's the point? Is it reducing the number of government institutions, meeting numbers in the Excel document on reducing the number of government strains? Is that, like, a whisk? A senator mentioned, an attempt to make better use of money because the Ministry of State has been overcrowded? What are some ideas? A senator on the purpose of this conversion which is so hard to distinguish in the bill itself? We are certainly going to get a report from the Ministry, and hopefully some of these questions will be answered. But to some extent, it reflects belief in a decrease in institutions, that there is even a goal in itself, without considering the content of the project itself. I'd like to hear what we're doing. A senator has that to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u195	A respectable president. I am deeply concerned that this will further affect the well-being of the administration and the credibility of the administration. If the Ministry is scribbling from all sides of the situation, there will be conflicting conflict of interest and credibility may be delayed. We need to keep lines very clear. You have one person who performs, you have another who has the surveillance and policy and you're not going to get it all together. In the discussion, people have taken a research center and a research centre as an example. There is now one minister, Minister of Education. Instead of taking this into the Ministry, which is a ridiculous idea, a minister is to combine it to one institution, a Institute of Education or Science, I don't remember what it is, and is to transfer a project from the Ministry to the Agency to promote it. In this way, economic management can no doubt be achieved, and there is also a way to promote the institutions or institutions themselves in the process. If you think less of organizations, then it's a normal way to do that. But it cannot always be a goal in itself because it is to be done on the projects itself. But if that's the way you want to do it, it's normal. In many respects, I have a little difficulty with this matter because I cannot see that it is not normal to accept such a task in the Ministry. What, then, about other assignments? For example, I took an example in my talk: What if, for example, we had come to mind in our own time and as a industrial minister that it was best for me to handle the Technologies of Technology and I care for the New Creation Centre and Tourism and the rest and the things that the institutions were handling? There's no difference between that and that. It's just a decision to take a job directly into the Ministry, and it's a completely new development that I think the government needs to explain: [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u196	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I was thinking exactly what I was thinking. A senator entered, i.e. on the cuts in the administration and the cuts in the budgets that have been massive. I think it's a sign that the Ministry is too weak as it is today. But the Ministry of State has actually done very well and has remained within the budget. For example, money supplies do not cover much, so it deserves commendation for keeping a good grip on the situation. I had been thinking about the same thing. Perhaps there is a tendency to swept away tasks. You see this tendency in very many public institutions because the money often comes with the work. I haven't often heard that the heads of public institutions want to get out of an assignment, just never, so I wonder if there's any kind of damage there, that it's just done to sponsor the Ministry. It is not unnatural in itself to want more men in. I'd like to know if there's anything I can do about it. Of course, we're just talking here, and it'd be nice to be able to ask the judges of these questions, and they should really be here completely crazy and important to come up in a speech chair to defend this case, to convince us that it's a good thing. We should hardly find out if everything was normal. That's why I'm directing the question to why. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u197	A respectable president. You see, if there was any conviction behind the administrative issue, people would discuss it with us, but it does not. So it is not surprising, then, that when there is no communication with our language or means to tell us how things are supposed to be and how they will provide for them, our speculations and questions are not surprising. Nobody's gonna bother here, and then we're gonna end up getting ready to go into the gaps. We have seen a number of cases go that way now in the winter, since it seems that there was no real support for the administration groups. That is how they have been discussed, and no one has been here to defend or speak to them. And where do they end up? They have ended up in ditches and have been given some examples of this. So I don't know what we're wasting our time in this council, except that it seems that this case is in a way that too many questions remain that we are ready to discuss such a U-turn, as the bill says when it comes to developing cooperation. That's what I'm talking about. A senator, of course, asked about them that, after the ministry has been so refreshingly weakened as it has been done to the Ministry of State, the tendency may be to try to pull everything into him and try to make one strong body instead of having a relatively weak government agency and weak agency. But I don't think that's the case. If that's the case, I don't think it's possible because there's a certain defense for the Ministry to have this party a special institution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u198	A respectable president. Of course, it's 1st. concerning the matter, and hopefully there will be many reviews of it when it goes to the committee and will be discussed further. But you may feel that it is urgent to withdraw the matter and wait for the results, these observations, to look into the matter further and see if this is the right step, since this step is likely not to be turned back so easily if this step is taken. Bigtime. The senator does not consider it to be - well, there is nothing against it, and yet, there is a waste of time if the matter arises, and then it's all the reviews. As a matter of fact, I always like it when reviews come up with opinions and opinions other than our members of Congress. But I'm worried that if someone somehow breaks the case, that decision will not be entirely deliberate enough will be difficult to come back. It's better to wait, just to prepare the case, to argue, to get the assessments that have been announced. It doesn't matter if it happens after one, two or three years. We're looking ahead anyway. Because of what? A senator said that the Ministry might somehow be closed, and it would be only more difficult to access them than to institutions. Of course, I don't really know how this is going to be done, whether it's going to stay in the same place or how to think it. But what is the experience? A senator of that? You have to make a diagnosis and have some business if you're going to talk to someone at the Ministry. At least the trunks are even more open. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u199	A respectable president. Well, the Ministry was now relatively open, at least when I was there. But, yes, that's right, because they have other projects, they're not exactly services, they're policy partners. They can therefore act as if they are closed. However, I urge those who are to contact me if they need to contact the Ministry and try to reach out. Whatever it is. A senator mentioned here thinks I'm a key figure, i.e. that this case can be prepared better. I find myself very uncomfortable being a member of the council, and I am invited to bring up a situation with such a radical change as a witness that is not sufficiently prepared. It is behind the opinions and opinions of different people who come to a different conclusion, people I respect, and I feel that I have done good things in my own areas. V.E.G. A minister chooses one of them and decides to go that way without arguing it sufficiently in my opinion. This will be followed by the European Commission's Environment Programme (OECD) and by the Management Board (OECD) which will be ready next year. So I ask, " Why don't we wait for this so that when we finally make a decision about the route, we can keep it all in view? ' And when all of these data and all this information is available, we're going to engage in this political solidarity, but we don't drive into the council in this way without waiting for professional reviews. I find the most difficult of this case, not being able to wait to see the results. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u200	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the legislation on Iceland's International Development Teams, and on organization, to the highest level. Secretary of state is moving to the General. As soon as it was introduced and distributed in the General Assembly, it has caused great controversy. The controversy is further reflected in today's discussion, where members of Congress have come up with questions, opinions, and reasons for this to be the wrong way. But the most serious of all is that once again there is a legal transfer that the members of the Independence Party and the Front Party are not seen, not participating in the discussion. V.E.G. True, the minister of state sits in the hall and cares for various matters of communication today, but he does not participate in discussions and does not object to explain matters and answer questions raised by members of the Parliament. I must speak of the greatest hostility towards the conduct of the present government and this work at the General Assembly and, unfortunately, I must also say it about a number of members of the administration board who do not show themselves, do not participate in debate, not 1 Corinthians. Umm... not even 2nd. except to read a committee opinion and to have no discussion at the General Assembly except in the House of Congress, where there is no room for debate. Senators. Isn't it true, Mr. Honorable President that no member of the Independence Party has spoken? Is that not probably the case with the laymen? True, I had to get out of a town from time to time. Five and eight, but it seems to me that none of their senators came up here. Where are the members of the State Department members? Why does a foreign minister not participate in the discussion, answer questions that are raised, and participate in the discussion as is usual? It's probably like splashing water on a goose to make it a subject, but I still wanted to place it on the council once more grounds. Now it's got the highest. Secretary of State Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson gave a bill to submit the European Development Agency. It was the candidate and the gentleman, the former prime minister and former minister of foreign affairs, the abuser, as at present. Secretary Ólafur Jóhannesson, who took the bill in 1981, on April 7, to the establishment of the European Development Agency. That's where that name came first. But now it's the candidate's work, the highest. Minister of Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, on behalf of the Tenet Party and the Independence Party, to transport a bill in which this job and this institution is attacked by putting it down and taking it as a ward in the Ministry. Before I comment on what Ólafur Jóhannesson said on the move of the matter back then or what other senators said in committee work, I will say that I have not found one reasonable argument given by a minister or in the bill itself for this change. Then I'm going to let myself have one opinion, and I'm going to make her come up here to explain why. A minister does this. I have to return to the budget by 2014, where we have a 3rd. Funds took the legal committees and what. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir and Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, herself to and quite revere financial contributions to the Ministry of State. V.E.G. A minister made it appear publicly how unhappy he was with these representatives on the budget board. They were supposed to pay some insurance because the State Department did not guarantee some of the things that were damaged in transport, and the Ministry was allowed to pay them themselves. In 2014, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was put in that position if I barely remembered the largest cutout in councils made before 2014. And then I come to what I think is the main purpose of the bill. He's shutting down the Development Agency and moving the operation all into the Ministry, but I've read that there are nine men in the office and 40 other jobs. Then the Ministry intends to take whatever goes on budgets in the general budget of the Development Agency up to 132 billion. K. For this year according to the budget bill, I don't remember it changing its approval, and then the package of 1,476 million. K. in development aid, or a total of 1.6 billion. Of course, it's all about these nine or ten employees, getting them into the Ministry, and letting them do other work. I can't see any other surface why this is being done because there is no evidence in the bill for this, e.g. that the Agency has been badly fired, any financial resources or other things. That, in fact, is what it says. Here, by permission of the President: THESSI has done a very good job in the field, so it is noted, and it has made many changes in independent assessments. Public review has included: the assessment should be performed. This institution has never exceeded the law of the law. In other words, it has been one of the State's exemplary institutions, yet it is attacked. A respectable president. V.E.G. The local minister of foreign affairs, Ólafur the late late Jóhannesson, gave a legislation on the establishment of the European Development Agency on April 7, 1981, and there it deals with a resolution adopted at the United Nations Parliament for the aim for industrialisation of at least 1% of national incomes to support developing countries. I think it's best to get back to the Senate report as high as possible. the minister said, a respectable president: ▪ One of the more important subjects worldwide each year is the debate that has taken place, mainly in the United Nations, in dealing with rich and needy people. An important factor in this is the requirement for developing countries to be more assisted by the developed nations, which, in turn, enable them to stand on their own feet. Important and good goals. Then the former minister of foreign affairs, Ólafur Jóhannesson, agrees that shortly before the above resolution was adopted at the United Nations Parliament at the General Act on New Organization, Iceland's Support in Developing Countries, No. 20/1971. It was first discussed helping 1% of the nation's income. Then, in the United States, the Management Board of Support for developing countries asked the then minister, i.e. Ólafur Jóhannesson, two years before he gave the bill, took part in a reexamination of the law. He did, and he committed the Agency's administration to conduct that review, and it could be said that the bill delivered by the minister was intended to replace the law. V.E.G. So the minister said, with the permission of the president: There are some new words in this bill. It is now replaced by the Agency's name and is known as Iceland's Development Group. It is not a good name, and it would be good if a person could find a better name. In fact, they didn't find it in the upper ward or in the lower ward. Then this matter was taken up in the departments, and in both divisions, the representatives of each group agreed to recommend a unanimousity with the approval of the National Development Network for Iceland as planned. 603. There was not a single adjustment proposal. There he was, the gentleman, and Ólafur Jóhannesson of John at work. Now it's the highest. Minister of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson who comes in here with a bill in which he intends to put down an institution that has done so well, as all reports indicate. And I can't see in the bill what evidence is there to do that, what are the benefits of Iceland's Development Group today, that is not thought to be, but, rather, gone. Based on today's candidates'work in developing cooperation, and with what I read here, there's a big difference. I can't help but quote an interview to what? paritaprevir In December 2013, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, U.S.A., quoted by President V.A., says: This is just the beginning. Reductions in the cost of evolution and child - welfare are part of the winding down of the nonsense of last term. Then she's going to have to cut down there and we're going to take out about 600 million. K. As a result, a developing research agency is attacked. In part, this report says by permission of the president: The increase in cost cutoffs for development is contrary to what the move team said in the end of the last election. In an entry published on the Facebook page of the party on April 17 it is claimed that the advance will increase the cost to the United Nations target that 0.7% of land production is spent for development purposes. I've made here a subject of the initiative that Ólafur Jóhannesson showed by the creation of the Development Agency. The 2008 Laws were changed, and I was especially interested in the approval, the 2008 finale, not one candidate supported these changes. They were not against them; they were all absent. Now it may have been some urgent press conference that has called them all from the House of Congress at the same time, but I ask myself, and unfortunately I cannot answer it: Why were the candidates not present at this vote? Were they showing something that later became so clear? For example, in December 2013, Vigdís Hauksdóttir said what she thought was only the beginning. It's time to go to the top. Minister of state with this disturbing bill which, to my judgment, call back and work better and want to agree with what has been presented here. Of course, he should have shown what he can become, and he wishes to cooperate with all members of the council to go through these matters, forming a solidarity, as has been done that the bill was signed in 2008 and at work in a foreign legal committee that led to the lack of agreement. Why? Why does it have the highest power? Secretary of State, that's a big back there, isn't it? Why does he not have the wide - mindedness of calling all classes at the council and having them participate in the work? A respectable president. I can't help but say I don't like this bill the way it does. I'm very critical of the work, saying that this bill is not supposed to do much more than go through 1st. ... andsleeping on a committee after it's over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u201	The president wants to remind the speakers that when discussing other members of Congress, they are addressed as respectful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u202	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller before his speech, and it has to be admitted that he stabbed me at the beginning of his talk that he felt that the conduct of the administrative committee to the council was not acceptable, not acceptable, not having to participate in each discussion. We've made comments to that, but I wanted to talk to you about it a little bit. A senator, for he has been here for several years. My experience in any way is that this burns more than I've known before, to rest. Members of the Governing Body allow themselves to be missing or at least not involved in a discussion. Because I began to wonder if my feelings were right or wrong, I looked at the new, fine web of the council, where a talk period can be discussed between individuals, and it is absolutely clear to me. Clearly, members of the administrative body do not have a great need to get them up here in a talk chair to discuss the matter they intend to agree with. So I wondered, " Am I convinced? ' The members of the administrative body are so small that it is sufficient just to sit and observe the conversation somewhere, whether they really have no need to come up here and answer the questions, the comments, the criticism involved in the bill. The other one I'd like to mention at what time. The senator is the position which seems to be almost accepted in the paper with the bill, i.e. that there is nothing wrong with developing cohesion, in fact it's very good, yet there's still reason to go through massive changes and then there's a list of general goals to sharpen the overall vision, so I'll draw the general goals together in a single line. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on this type of work, whether he believes that the Council's work period is well spent in such dramatic changes at a time where many other important issues are also under control. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u203	V.E.G. President. Yes, thank you. A senator - not for reducing the speaker's desk so much each time - but for the questions that may arise. A senator here claims the attitude of the majority of council members toward the council. I've been very thinking about this, especially during this terms. This is a complete change from all the terms I've been living in the Council. In this regard, the representatives of each group, if not more, of the council hall, have listened to the discussion and shared in discussions because of the nature of 1st. is so important where things are tore up. Senators can ask the highest. Minister and get answers as best we can into the commission work. Let me give you one example. I don't know if there was a lack of time or what, there was very little discussion of 1st. Of all members of the council, there was very little discussion. But then, the day of the 2nd C.E. really came. that there were conflicting opinions. This is what I say and criticize the majority council members. For example, I think, in very rare cases, there has been a way of communicating with the government's speeches on legal matters with the 1st. or 2nd about. This is what is now called the House of Congress. In very rare cases, I have been able to ask key figures of the Court's Correction, senators who have talked about that matter, rarely being able to ask them, because they are merely discussing it in the House of Congress. I must say just as it is that I miss the presence of the majority parties, six members of the nine members of the State Department, not sitting here listening and participating in the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u204	Mr. President. Yes, there is reason to describe the reason. Councilmen. Hv. The members of Birgir Ármannsson of Aarnar, Daðason Ejaflsson, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdótt, Elín Hirst, Frosti Sigurjónsson, and now I'm probably forgetting some great independent man, yes, and who. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason, that's right. Where are those six senators? Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year raised a meeting board before the discussion began. Others have failed to take part in this discussion. I think, a respectable president, it's a reason to discuss this on the Presidency Committee. How can we have this conversation if you're not answered? You're not a respected answer. No one's coming up here, and the highest. Minister, I've noticed that he's taken an answer. He has sat here listening to our talks, and hopefully he will listen to the criticisms that have been presented there. One answer. Hv. The members of the State Department are not seen, at least not sharing in discussions, they have certainly been seen, some of them. So I declare my disappointments with the wind. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, but restate my second question from the previous answer on the goal of the bill, whether it is clearly defined in a paper with the bill, in view of the fact that it does not account for the success of developing cohesion. Then you ask how exactly this conversion is going to achieve the goal of improving the expected quality of the work we do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u205	V.E.G. President. First, what I couldn't answer in my first response, about the formation change, and the work force. I have thought about it in the discussion today, where there have been some criticism in this process, that it is written somewhere in the bill about some group of consultations, that I, as the then minister of transportation, used my view of the harmony of transportation institutions and the dividing of them, on the other hand, a construction agency and on the other hand, a administrative agency. How did that start? It began with a request for a government audit by the NGO for a certain case, and by the way, I am reminded, it was taken a lot into the operation of the Nautilus. Following that administrative arrangements, there were some suggestions that were most effective, practical suggestions. As a result, I started two if not three groups of work, a little big, which went over all of this, reported it, discussed it with employees, etc. and finally after a considerable period of time and hard work, many meetings, they gave suggestions on setting it up. As a result, bills were transferred, and the General agreed to unite the construction institutions into the only organization called the Road Building, i.e. The Executive Director's work programme in Vega and the Sports Institute, and then divide the administrative part of both institutions plus Air Forces and create a transport administrative agency. I think it's a much better process, and there are other examples in which representatives came to work in preparation for big business and big bills that led to the introduction of it. I'll keep it till later, I don't have any more to say. But what I've criticized here, I'm sorry, a respectable president, has to mention this example of the absence of the senators during the discussion, I'm sorry and I'm sorry to do it, but it's necessary because it's a poem at the jobs of these whales. The senators and the government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u206	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I really liked to review the background of this case and that it had been a member of the highest class. Minister of the former, Ólafur the late son of Jóhannesson, who was the founder of this institution at the time, as I understood this. I'm sorry that the generation that comes in later is not improving the matter, but it is more likely to give it less weight than was started at the beginning. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in preparation only for this decision. Minister and report to the core bill. This is shown by an interview at the highest. Minister, by permission of the president, he says: There have been a number of reports on how to carry on developing cooperation. They have all come to the conclusion that it is right to unite this in the Ministry. Is that it? Haven't there been more reports, such as the Sigurgeirsdóttir, who presents everything else? What does that count? A senator with such a report, shouldn't she have come to the General for discussion and go to the Foreign Affairs Committee before making such dramatic decisions? Have there not been any reports on many subjects received professional treatment at the council? It wasn't e.g. A report on a sea cable here for discussion before making a decision on the case of the minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u207	V.E.G. President. In answer to that as a dog. Magnúsdóttir This review of the history's beginning of the development of a developing cohesion agency in the late Ólafur son of Jóhannesson as secretary of state, to be made clear, not as prime minister, and so on. The minister of the state of Gunnar Bragi, the son of Sveinsson, his party brother, and the same territory, should lay it down. Yeah, I really think it's a bad government. I feel that this is a sign that people have been doing this, perhaps had a report in which some aspects of feeding can be included, as we have discussed, but the report has not been discussed, much less cooperation, cooperation, and cooperation across groups, all categories here. Developmental support should be initiated above classes or class of anti-stabilising lines. We're supposed to be able to unite in that. If the budget has not been so often that it has been agreed together in the few times that we have been able to expand our contribution to development cooperation? The last government, despite its many difficulties, was the use of proben during the time. It's a bad government. There was no work together, and I once again regret the apparent fluctuary that takes place in so many of the current problems. Governments for putting up a case like this. One thing has just started, but it has been moved by the same minister and is now that no one understands its conclusions except the European Union, which, of course, views us as a member nation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u208	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In his speech, he found that the Ministry of State suffered severe cuts at the beginning of the season. Of course, it has the highest. There was no joy in it, and perhaps thinking of how the Ministry's office could be strengthened and maybe see some gold in this regard, looking at the possibility of bringing down a development research agency under the Ministry. I'd like to hear from you. A senator may be aware that what is behind them at the end of the day is not said to reduce the number of staff or to alter the operation. That, as quoted earlier, is stated on the bill on page 18. 8, That Iceland's Development Research Institute has done a very good job at the scene, so that, as a result, it has been taken and has many successes in independent assessments. Based on these descriptions, the Agency should be mowed and continued to develop a weapons base on which it appears to be on. I'd like to hear some of that, too. A senator as to the fact that if it goes after the Agency falls under the Ministry and only becomes some drawer there or department within the Ministry, what about it all being on the same hand, policy, execution and surveillance? Isn't that unusual in the administration business today?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u209	V.E.G. President. The last thing that ever happened. A senator mentioned, policy, and all of that, just as a government thought has criticized the use of the same hands and within the same walls. It has been observed many times, and there are things that have often had to be taken into account. Hv. A senator mentioned what I pointed out in my speech on the cutoff of 2013 at the State Department, whether it could be the reason to reach out for, like, ten employees in the office, and then start sharing tasks and to use men in other activities. According to the financial and economic review, there is no expense, nor should there be an increase in expenses. I allow myself to doubt that, a respectable president. Hv. A senator is with me on a well-being committee, a professional committee, and in one or two meetings, guests have come to discuss a bill about the harmony of the Institute for Marine Research and the Fishing Agency. That bill has hardly been discussed after the arrival of visitors because of the management of staff there offered, such treatment that half is enough, as the man said, gets a complete drop score. On the last page, I allow the Ministry of finance to come up with, and I'm not sure that I can follow through. Do people really think that there will be no one who will avail himself of the reward? Do people really think that the Ministry can produce exactly the same kind of work that makes it possible for humans to use some kind of law to install there? Besides those hired after July 1, 1996, the clients are entitled to quit because of change. They're putting down an institution they're working for and moving their jobs into the Ministry. What if a man with a job at the Bureau doesn't want to work at the Ministry? Of course it's a duet. A respectable president. That is why the Ministry of Economics has published a manual description of how to handle such matters, that changes are not to be made to a relevant institution, a public fund, or to use the service benefits, etc. Rather take more into account the workers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It seems to me that this bill wasn't done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u210	A respectable president. We're not talking about anything over here. We're just shutting down Iceland's Development Cooperative Agency. It is about 11 p.m., and quite a number of senators have addressed this, not one independent individual, and the forward squad, just the minister. This is totally incomplete. A word. I'm asking, "Where's what?" paritaprevir Birgir for an Ármannsson's son? Why doesn't he take part in this discussion? Where's the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee? Where is it? paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason? Where is it? paritaprevir Will Bjarnason? How do they feel about this neglected suggestion of this defective report that is full of innuendo? What do you think? paritaprevir Elín this Hirst issue that we're looking for? And what does that say? paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir on this matter? You can't finish a 1st. The matter is different from the council members who allow so little to participate in the discussion in order to be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u211	Mr. President. Of course, it is true. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir pointed out before me, it's not acceptable that there's an evening meeting, which is perfectly normal but at present. There is no need for the members of the board to attend the discussion, not even at the moment. Senators of the State Department to consider the matter. They don't refuse to participate, or are they not interested in the case? Do they not have conviction about the matter? We don't know anything about that. We do not know what they think, for they have not given one speech and have not made one comment in the entire discussion outside the highest. Minister sitting here. A respectable president. This is not an acceptable performance at the International Assembly of Iceland. We're trying to have a conversation, we're trying to present some criticism of the bill underneath, but there's no answers, no opinions, no exchanges. This is not okay, and we cannot let the Council continue to operate in this way. [[The president calls.]] Like what? paritaprevir Kristján Möller pointed out this isn't the first time. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u212	A respectable president. I came into my speech earlier that day after day in a case, we are in the government's stand and we try to discuss material primes that this government offers, and there is no one to answer the questions we raise. Government officials do not seem to be interested in any of the issues that come in here, and this also shows how they go through committees. Either coast them or dissociate them because there seems to be no communication between ministers and these senators on what matters should look like. I must say exactly as it is in this matter that I am completely incomprehensible how the advisers will be able to drive in this way when the OECD development committee is working out the assessment of the development community and that on the way there is a government application on the State Review. [[The president calls.]] They're just gonna get it over with before it's too late. [[The president calls.]] I think that's a very bad, weird way to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u213	Mr. President. No wonder! Councilmen comment that governments are not involved in the discussions presented here today. It is, as we have seen, not for the first time that the administrative body will not show itself in the chamber, and the government's situation will be the subject of the discussion and will discuss the matter as the highest point. Government's advising. [[The point is, are you mean...?]] However, the political part does not. One may suspect that there is no unity on the subject, and that is why no independent would come here and participate in the discussion. But we do not know because they do not come to share in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u214	A respectable president. I'm really sorry that all this day and all that night have been tearing down a very clearly defective bill instead of doing something upbuilding, such as discussing a political arrangement for the National Relations on the Member States' Convention. I just wanted to make it clear that I don't understand the priorities. I think it's really weird.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u215	President. I agree with what. paritaprevir Halledu Mogensen, the priority here is incomprehensible, and it's totally incomprehensible that we're sitting here with a backward bill that I'm going to get better at in my speech below. One more trip is at the governor's stand to attend a night meeting when it's 10:30 a.m. and we're complaining that we don't see any senators here. True, I'm going to say that. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónánsson, who lives on the State Department, has been here most part of the day, but he has not been so little as to say a word to the rest of us, for the government seems to think we're not worth it, that he just doesn't have to have a word with us. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure it's a bad time for this country to have a government like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u216	Mr. President. Of course, this lack of interest is evident among government officials in this matter and should be concerned about what causes. If he is so eager to go through the matter, it would seem that he or his team would not be able to speak for it. This is a bigger issue than that, so if there's no follow-up or interest in any group of his own party or his own party members, they'll do it with one hand. I think it's a disgrace, when we're talking about such a serious matter, and a great change in how Iceland's Development Cooperative Agency is going to be treated, that no member of the Foreign Affairs sees a reason to be here in the Senate, let alone other members of the administrative body. I think the highest. A minister should withdraw this matter and let it go to sleep long with his booze.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u217	A respectable president. Of course, I don't know what it's been like before, but at least I've experienced it at 1st. We are usually talking to ourselves. [[Take it up, and at 2nd.]] And even 2nd. But how refreshing it would be if it were at least a complaint from the government, for it would keep us on our toes, and you might have done even more. But I'd like to say, at least, the highest. A minister sits in the hall listening and hopefully goes out with the learning and wisdom that falls from our lips, taking it into consideration. However, there are many examples of not even being present by ministers. I remember that already the highest. The prime minister announced that he was very looking forward to the discussion, whether it was the fall, or what it was, but he did so. You feel that governments and those in authority do not find us particularly enjoyable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u218	Mr. President. So in the United States, we take developing cooperation seriously. It was during the reign of Sólrún Gísladóttir, the then foreign minister, that there was a total law on Iceland's international development team and at the moment. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson the son of Aphrodin was the minister of foreign affairs. Two ambitious Parliamentary proposals for the development of Iceland's teamwork. Then, when it is decided that the Agency is not to be put down, it is surprising that the members of the board can't come up here and explain to us why they think this is a good thing. Do members of the council believe that developing cooperation is the result of a fall? Why is this case supported by members of the Sanhedrin? It is hard to believe that we are alone with the minister of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u219	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the members of Congress who have made comments on the absence of the members of the House of Government. You wonder, " Is this a lack of confidence in the government's confidence in the matter and lack support in the Independence Party? ' I reviewed in my speech today that I had a very successful cooperation with the then president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the Supreme Director. In 2008, Bjarni Benediktsson's secretary of finance was to put the strategy on developing cooperation through the council with the full approval of all classes. We had a deal with the government for all the changes she wanted to make on the bill to ensure the vote of the entire body of Congress. It may be that this case is some kind of private mission. Minister, don't you have any support in the Independence Party, and that will explain the howling absences of independence by the Assembly Hall tonight? I think it's normal for us to get answers about it. The matter is clearly not presented in a way that allows for some congregational discussion to take place when no one is standing here to answer but the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u220	Mr. President. I'm looking for an explanation for silence. Every member of the board. I'm glad to see it. The chairman of the foreign committee has entered the hall, and it is certainly true that we have both seen him and his wife. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson in the hall today, but we have not heard from them about their attitude on the matter. Now it is not that we can bring up political passions in the hearts of both of us. The senators of the greater part of the United States. It's not a job. But we can make that claim, even though passion may not be a matter of at least distinguishing us from their stand, taking into account the moisture that has been placed on the table, reason, and conversation, even though it is a weak passion that it must be. Since they have no need to reveal and express themselves, I expect that their hearts will not be great flames, and we cannot expect them to do so. We cannot expect fire to burn through our hearts. The senators of the greater part of the United States. I can't expect that. But I can expect them to treat us with respect and courtesy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u221	A respectable president. It was up to us to start a discussion about the President's conference board - and see why. paritaprevir He's a Birgir's Ármannsson's farm. I'd like to welcome him to the council Hall because that's exactly the way it is according to 65rd. Parliamentary meetings are an obligation for members of Congress to attend unless the need for bans is necessary. It's good to see that. The head of the State Department considers the matter necessary to sit here during the discussion. But what does it look like? A senator on the case? I don't think it's time. A senator will place himself on the rosary and participate in the discussion? For a review, and especially for the government, all of us are so already in the highest position. The minister has recommended it goes to the council. It's going to the council. Hv. The State Department is assigned to handle the case. That is why it is not only reasonable but also the one knowing why. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year may take so little to participate in a discussion of an option and perhaps much rather fall away in this language of Congress. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u222	A respectable president. I'd like to make a comment to my chairman's word, w. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason of the Year, for he said that it was a pleasure to see the highest. Minister is here for answers. I've seen the highest. Minister's sitting here, but I haven't heard him say anything. He made one manly remark to a female senator, huh? paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u223	Manly?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u224	A manly remark, yes, the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u225	Valgerður Bjarnadóttir...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u226	That's why I don't agree that the highest. A minister has sat here to answer, although he certainly sat here, he can have it. But we would like him to answer something other than the comment I quoted earlier and not mention the right name, for I am upset by it. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u227	You're just being grouchy, aren't you?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u228	A respectable president. I'm on a team with what. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir because I think it's the best. Ministers have not participated in discussions. We have raised a number of questions, and it is simply true that he has once stepped forward to share in my view rude comments with one of the senators who participated in the discussion. We're not trying to get it to the highest level. Minister or ask him to come to war with us on this matter, we are asking him to answer simple questions. That's all. But it seems that doing so is very hard for humans. I have to say exactly that I don't understand what's involved in answering the question, "Why can't you wait for the State Review Committee and the report that OECD Development Committee is working and plan to return next year? " What is involved in answering that question? [[The president calls.]] I wish for the highest. A minister or someone who needs to cooperate with the matter at the council will at least attempt to do so. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u229	The President would like to remind the senators to try to respect the time limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u230	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to add any more of this discussion about the absence of the council. I've already said enough about it. I'm going to make a statement about the work that was being done during the D.C. State Day of Independence, as well as those of the former Supreme Court. Minister of Foreign Affairs, Invil Sólrún Gísladóttir, gave the bill of a change in the law of Evolution, which later became a law. I want to make a subject and bring it up as a matter of course. paritaprevir The years Páll Árnason discussed that the greater part reached the full agreement with the smaller part of work in the language that made the current law agree at the General Assembly, although the screaming absence of candidates at 3rd. It is an exemplary work ethic to be used. That's what I was talking about earlier. The Minister of Foreign Affairs should have been. Based on the issues that have developed here on this matter and the fact that one of the management parties does not comment on the support of the case, I think it would be best to reroute the case, put it on a transverse committee, and then see what happens thereafter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u231	Mr. President. I'm saying, too, like what? paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, told me that I'm thirsty to hear what I'm talking about. I just have to say, because I know that he has, in the power of his office, a great knowledge of this matter that he can impart to the rest of us. I'm not kidding about that. It would be much deeper, more productive, and interesting to discuss when dealing with the seminary, not on a daily basis, but so regularly as the highest. Minister and then w-w-what. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, would be able to inform us more about these matters and participate in the discussion. I challenge both of them to do so, and of course I wanted to see a lot more people having some interest in discussing this serious matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u232	A respectable president. Since this is the case, when members of the Parliament come up with talks on the subject, they are not so good at it. I think that when a senator named Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, called earlier, I think that men who have passion for this bill were concerned with it. When the hall opened, she had hardly finished. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson, who all of us know is more likely to burn for a good cause than most others. Then I'll have to ask you why. A senator whether he does not come up here and explain whether the Independence Party is still the opinion he was having when the current chairman of the 2008 Foreign Affairs Committee was with me in ensuring the approval of all classes at the council for developing cooperation. It was the policy of the Independence Party then that there should be a matter of peace among all political parties. Is the Independence Party still that way? Doesn't have a what? A senator shames that he will provide the bill without consulting other categories? I think that's why. A senator cannot influence us to give a talk here on his position on the matter of the 1st issue. So we'll find out how he wants to handle things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u233	A respectable president. This bill is becoming like the letter that no one wanted to recognize, and the secretary of state eventually stood by himself, for there is no support here to be found outside this one senator on this case, which is called a diplomat. I think it would be the most reasonable thing to say that a respectable president interrupted the discussion and called together members of Congress, and we could discuss the program until the week, because it is obvious that there is no support in the government that this matter is on the program. It's lonely. The minister of the class is full of shouting and supportlessness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u234	Mr. President. Now you're drawing yourself a boring picture regarding the therapy of Congress here. It was shown in a case of the highest order. The other day, a minister of state thought that a discussion at the Senate Hall was best held in order to delay a matter or to slow down a vote on a matter. It is as if it was the teaching of the judges, now that there are many new members of the administrative body. [[Up front.]] There was a why. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, with his great plagiarism, agreed that he would not be so unconcerned as any political body member on a First Amendment. I understand that, but often it's this way of discussing that if you're comfortable with a case, you let 1s. passing. But when there is obviously political controversy, it is unnatural that no one is willing to come up here, defend the case, and say why they have both sides of the board. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u235	A respectable president. This is better than it should be said that there is a clear law of Congress that members of Congress are required to attend a council meeting unless the need for bans. Surely we must make some very specific comments about why. Councilmen Ásmundur Einar Daðason and Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, the first and second vice president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, are missing here at this meeting for a key management bill of the National Affairs Committee. I have to ask a respectable president if there's any way we can find out where it is. Councilmen are, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason and Ásmundur Daðason, or why they are not here to care for their duties, for it is absolutely clear that they directly violate their duties with their absence. I think there must be a pause in the discussion until the president of the State Department can show the respect of being here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u236	Mr. President. I listened to the discussion presented here and, among other things, the difficult challenges that were faced. Chairman of the State Department to express himself. Now I want to take him down. I know why. A senator who is intelligent and thinking alpinely and intelligent has always managed to express himself, sometimes in a better way. I think that silence is what it is. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee tonight is much brighter than some talks given here, even by myself. I believe there is in itself a great and clear judgment of the bill that is being discussed. The head of the State Department prefers to sit in his seat and keep quiet. I don't think it's bad news to him, but he's in the difficult situation he's made us so completely aware that it's very likely that the bill we're talking about here does not have a majority follow-up. Whether they even have support in the Foreign Affairs Committee remains to be seen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u237	A respectable president. Then this discussion will continue. I'm going to say, as it is, I'm not surprised to get to the top. Secretary of State has not consulted with the council or very many. I have not quite quite figured out who he has consulted before starting his mail trip east of the continent. I must say, however, that I am amazed at why the highest. A minister decides to treat this bill this way, because it is natural to be sure about the famous letter that he had received much opposition and that he had not been able to get along with it and that no one would have been willing to talk to him about it. It has been pointed out to him that the people of the land want to vote for that matter, i.e. The European Union core negotiations, people were promised to do so before the last election. That is why, in part, these elections may have gone the way they did, because people did not interfere with the election. And that is why, 56 thousand people were under the challenge of a national agreement, which is why there were a large number of people here outside last winter, and that is why there would be 8, 000 people here outside ten days ago or what it was, after the Supreme Court. Minister took the letter. V.E.G. Of course, the minister of foreign affairs has known, for that is not to be said at all. Minister that he doesn't have all the authority to know. Of course, he did not think to consult with it or to add to it. But this bill, a respectable president, it's totally incomprehensible why the highest. A minister did not prefer to consult with the government or just with all members of the council, for we have even begun to question whether the other member of the board is part of the team. It has now become clear that the chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, which a man thought was standing right here beside the minister in this case and moving it along with him, has chosen not to be heard, so now we even begin to question whether the Independence Party, the government collaborator, was involved in the preparation of the case. So it's really weird, and I'm really surprised at these devices. Ministers because the rest had been so much easier. And if something had to be fixed, it would have been done normally at the council. Instead, the highest will jump. Ministers forward with a bill that is going to work out just to put down a developing cohesion agency. What for? Yeah, like the highest. In his history today, a minister himself stated most of the money that goes to the Ministry of State goes to these classes. And that's why he and his Ministry advisers want this money inside the Ministry because they have experienced what they really need. paritaprevir Kristján Möller went through so well earlier today, that at the 2014 fund, the State Department of State was cut down at trog. And they also know it as the chairman of the budget board, anyway. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has said that it was just the first step not to raise the donations. Now it is time for another step and then the development community is to be laid down and the budget is still to be lowered. That's why they want the highest. Ministers and officials receive all the money in their home so that they can hire them more than they do now, out of more to play. I think I just saw that 40% of what goes to developing projects goes to the Development Network, so it's not a small amount of money. It's not bad to say it, it's just a general fact in life, and in a system like ours, that, of course, everyone is always collecting power and money, and it's not so bad to say that it's quite ready here that this bill is adrift by government officials in the State Department, and that's the most that recommends it. There's clearly a difference, at least between what we hear here and their opinion, political differences. Now they are lucky, the officials who want to go this way, and have fought for it for a while, I think, to take it all into the Ministry, that they now have ministers who listen to them, and take their counsel in this matter. The end was one of the highest. In his talk, a minister said that with this change, they could offer more work to the Ministry workers. Yes, that's fine, then we can offer them more work. Then they can go on transportation duties and be ambassadors or assistants or something in white clothes in Africa rather than give professional care for their work and instead of focusing on the project rather than on whether or not people have moved out and south. I don't think it's general in the discussion today that it's clear from the bill that there's no financial savings, no one. I don't even feel like it's floating over lakes. It's not supposed to be any financial savings, it's not a part of the equation, it's all about shutting down the Bureau and taking everything into the Ministry so you can go to transport and something similar. And they follow the natural increase in the cost of something else, since the ministry needs to be re-educed more than has been done to date. Hv. paritaprevir In his earlier speech to this day, Páll Árnason used the expertise of the Ministry to be different and how the projects involved in developing cooperation differ from those of the usual foreign service. This is how I think it's strange in all of this. Now that we've been discussing this case, I don't know how many hours, five, six or seven times, but it was discovered right in the first hour that the bill is unnecessary because it is said that by doing things as suggested in this bill, there will be a barrier to policy overlap and implementation and that there will also be a reduction of failure and failure in business and management. V.E.G. The minister was asked about it in an answer, so he had to answer, and he has to be natural to answer his answers even though he would just sit for the rest of the day and answer nothing of what is asked of him, but there he had to answer. In answer to the highest. A minister noted that none of these were available. It's just that we're not all right with this operation, like some dog. A senator said here today. The operation is only successful, and it has even been found to be one of the few institutions of the state that always stay within the budget, which is almost an exemplary agency, such as the General Agent. It has also been reported in our discussion today, and readers who read have shown that these reports abuse a DAC report, OECD development team. The facts are misinformed there. It is suggested that the DEC recommend something in particular that it does not recommend. If you don't mind me saying. It doesn't work to make such a statement, and it doesn't work to treat this party as it has so well been held at the council and there's no reason to be so political and as political as we are here, there's no reason. I'd like to add a little something at the end of the day, i.e. With regard to the new Commission or a management committee or what it should be called, all of a sudden five members of the body are to be put in the same position. I'm sure they're supposed to go once a year, every two years or two meetings a year that may both be in Africa, I don't know about it, and look around. But as the discussion has shown today, this is not the way for the council to be more aware and to have greater influence there, not at all. However, I feel that it should be thought very carefully, and especially in view of the discussion that has been made out of this letter and the Senate arrangement that we are not allowed to talk about at the council, that perhaps it would be right for us to consider changing the work of the State Department and perhaps split it into some European committee and then another foreign committee. Then a foreign relations committee may have a better time to observe these aspects of foreign affairs that are of enormous importance. I believe that we at the council need to show them a class of languages better and more exercise than has been done in this case. So finally, a respectable president, I'd like to mention one particular factor because we've talked about money. One thing that has been revealed during the discussion and when I began to study this matter is that developing cooperation agencies get money from other countries, which will enable us to be more involved in development projects, two - sided projects than we could. Of course, if there is no special development organization here, we will never get money, and how on earth are we to get some kind of strength into the Ministry of State? No, it's not working. So we're shutting doors there, we're always closing doors. That's the interests of the foreign minister, I think, of closing the door. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u238	A respectable president. Last year, this occurred at the highest level. The minister of state made a suggestion to break up business with the European Union, and he was reassigned with the report because it was so evil and was so full of lies about individual senators, etc. I think it's an isolated thing that happens here at the council that a minister is actually reassigned by a report, with a text submitted as part of a administrative bill. But he was reassigned, and he had to write the text back up again. This was crash number one, and then the letter last week crashed number two in progress at the highest level. Minister to complete the Memberal application according to his own accord. The review I make here relates to my speculation in connection with this particular case, which is the case in which the case says, by permission of the president: In addition to the government's voice on global development, the Ministry of Development, which is about what the bill is about, the Office of the Ministry, is making sure that all communications with foreign countries and institutions in the field of development are in harmony and in harmony with Iceland's foreign policy. What do you think? A senator on this, this is most distrustful. Ministers in their own institutions without a logical review or any report or examination whether the development community has failed as high as the highest level. A minister makes his shoes in this paper? What do you think? Senator that the Minister is saying here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u239	A respectable president. Because I am now the best person to understand human matters, and then I mean that I don't understand much when people use heavy jar rolls, I can't understand it any other way than to suggest that there were some who were somewhere and said and did things that aren't exactly in harmony with the ministry or the Minister's will. However, there is no evidence to support this and other than the pimps that are there, and that is simply not correct in the comments of the FAC, we have nothing to do with this which we can point out and drive back, but we can ask the minister what he means. What has happened? Besides, if that has happened, why has the minister not taken action? The minister still has a message over this institution, and I'd think it would be a big deal if you heard of it as a minister somewhere that agencies that hear under a ministry that a man is responsible for would give out some proclamations. You would now try to pull down a few strings to stop them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u240	Mr. President. It was shown in the matter of what. A senator in a fine speech earlier believed that those who merely recommended this change were the Ministry itself. It will not be overlooked if the report is naturally written in the same Ministry. I believe this is an entirely unsurpassed text from the Ministry, and therefore the Minister on the performance of the government agency. Hv. A senator says: "Well, then, we have to ask the minister if the coverts are set. V.E.G. Indeed, a minister has been asked that in answer to his background in the past meeting, and there were no answers. There were no examples of the failure of an institution in these matters. This is by no means possible. I want to pray. A senator is wondering if this report is really a pseudo-improvement, whether this report is actually a package of some sort over some other objective, some political objective that might partly be involved in increasing the political grasp of the Minister of Developmental Cooperation in order to be able without much effort to change Iceland's priorities. This is certainly so that these more important issues have changed their focus by reducing the budget for development cooperation. In fact, there is. The chairman of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, went further and was directly opposed to the matter and spoke against directing financial support to developing nations, which are natural with conflict and shame. Counts 'em out. A senator that hangs out in some way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u241	A respectable president. I'm going to hope that the case isn't all that crazy and it doesn't seem to get along somehow just because I don't understand it. The report is said to be written in the Ministry. Of course it is, but it is the natural minister responsible for the report, there is no question about it, and it cannot be said that respectful officials are responsible. The minister is responsible for the report. Someone put it this way earlier today that they needed the research question on the bill and reason why we were doing it. In this case, perhaps it is best to say that you would not get a high grade in a master's class for making such an effort. The research question and all the work around us is needed to wrap it up, but there is also no evidence to support why this is so and why this institution needs to be closed. Then I ask, " Why wasn't the other way checked if it's better that things are in the same place? ' Why, then, was the other way not also seen, i.e. taking everything out of the Ministry and into the agency? In 2015 it is the natural nature of modern government to take such factors out of budgets rather than into them, even though it may be disputed as to what should be left of the Ministry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u242	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. You're always more and more surprised about it, after you listen to the language of a man. Here, many of the members of the Parliament, who are well - versed in this category, have been watching him for a long time, why in the world. The minister of state chooses to place this good agency into the Ministry of State, an institution that actually gets the highest grades for its performance, progress, and manages funds, and all recommend that it be an exemplary agency in the Icelandic Government. You ask: "What's the cause? " It has been observed that this decision is the highest. A minister is primarily based on the report prepared for the Ministry of Þórir Guðmundsson. Another assessment of this series of languages has also been made by Sigurdgeir's daughter, Sigurgeirsdóttir, who turned in a different direction. I'd like to hear it. Not that it would have been natural for us here at the General Assembly to have had some access to the case at an earlier stage with some kind of report that had different viewpoints torn into these subjects, and the case would lead to a professional committee, the State Department of State, and the council would have access to the case before going so far and in effect have no logical support for the case, as I think it would be in the bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u243	President. Now, maybe there's the point, why didn't the Minister prepare the thing better? Why did he not consult with this class of government, which so far has been stressed as consulting? That is also why we nine senators asked for a report, i.e. A report from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on planning development cooperation. 21 points are stated in the report. Only the first point is this: Experience and statistics fundamental to the assessment that the integration increases efficiency and economy and information on the availability of economics that support this evaluation. This is just the first of 21 things to be requested in a report that has not yet arrived. I'm meeting this weekend with a man of great skills, actually a member of the committee now active, 17 people named or whatever, I can't remember how many there are in it. I'll tell him: 'Yes, then we're getting the development network into the Senate on Tuesday. And then he says, "No, has the report arrived? " I say, "No, no, no. " The man says: "And will the council discuss the prime minister of foreign affairs without the requested report? He just couldn't figure out how to deal with it. He was so surprised. I agree with my dear acquaintance, and I'm amazed that we are discussing this now without the fact that the report is available.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u244	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have a cut from an interview at the highest level. The minister of state where he says, by permission of the President: We'll probably see better use of staff in that office. And that's what the State Department says when the whole operation is being put under that hat. You're asking, "Is there such a bad use of staff today at the State Department? Is it not said that the people who are now active in the Development Organization are moving between them and the Bureau into the Ministry? Then you wonder, what is stated in the review of the Office of Public Economics in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs: ▪ It is not expected that the bill will interfere with the financial expenses of business and support in this category, it will be unchanged on the law, assuming that the potential benefit of a joint project will be used to further the activity in another way. [...] The remuneration right to employees is not expected to survive the bill's legalization; nor will all fixed personnel be offered comparable to those in the Ministry. Counts 'em out. A senator that this will be the reality, not to come to some court of remuneration, or the right of the staff that goes in between? That it is possible to take a group of people like that and plant them in a ministry? And that the rights of the people who have earned them for many years do not wake up and call for more money at the Ministry? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u245	A respectable president. I think it's important that often or usually when such institutions are being united, they think they have some financial advantage. This is where people say they won't have it. I think it's exactly right, that developing may be the cost of something that the Ministry of finance doesn't calculate there, because, of course, people will stop, not everyone wants to move over there, and something will come up. That's for sure. It is also noted in the report, and it has been shown in the discussed articles here that, for example, the level of education will increase. In fact, there are things to be said to be more useful there. It is an office that handles the development of the international community or what it is called in the Ministry, followed by a developing research agency. They say it should be more useful in that office, I don't understand it properly. I mean, why isn't it quite useful today? Then I'll ask again, " Wouldn't it be better to transfer them to a developing research agency? ' Or are people talking about using the people that come from the Development Organization or the number of people in any other assignment in the Ministry of State? None of these questions are yet to be answered. So it is as we said right now before the discussion began, we protested that we should talk about this retarded bill today instead of talking about a pact of national agreement, which is an acquiescing case and is ready to speak about it on April 14; but on this issue we are being talked about today and men do not even honor us. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u246	Mr. President. It is clear that this bill, despite the Agency's good work, should put down the development network. At any rate, the work of the Development Agency seems to be good enough to be specifically stated in the report provided by this bill, which says, by permission of the president: THESSI has done a very good job in the field, so it is noted, and it has made many changes in independent assessments. Why, then, are these measures being taken? The changes do not seem to lead to any saving or inadequacy. Why shut down the Agency when cooperation with the Development Agency and the Ministry is specifically commended in the DaAC report, OECD development committee, 2012 for the effectiveness and success of Iceland's case? Why is this urgent need to pass on that fine work by bringing in all the projects of the Ministry of Development? You would have hoped that your goal would be to be more effective in this important work, but there seems to have been no arguments. The argument would have to be very good to justify such a relapse in a government system where an independent agency is taken into the Ministry for what? Extra media control and transparency? In what century do we live? Besides, who's going to be monitoring the Agency when the Ministry is swallowed up by the Agency? According to the bill, the implementation of government policies on international development cooperation, such as 5. g., should be subject to regular monitoring and assessment by an independent person. An independent party, it's right there. However, as you seek to learn more about who the independent person should be in the bill that further explanations are not needed. That's very strange to me, and really, it's distressing. Who's going to be in charge? V.E.G. A minister has publicly reasoned for this operation that a large number of reports support his case, which is the best way to bring her work into the Ministry. However, according to Sigurbjörg Sigurgeirsdóttir, this is quite incorrect, since most of the reports show that it was best to export more projects, not into them. Why is that inconsistent? There must be some misunderstanding, since it's hardly the highest. Minister to use false reasoning to support his case. I'm gonna let myself repeat what I said back there because it's really important to me. That was the case with Sigurgeirsdóttir Geigir's comments on reasons at the highest. Minister. She said, with President's permission: It does not meet administrative criteria, meet guidelines for good administrative practices or the administrative structure and emphasis here on a greater range of distribution controls. I say again: If it really is the policy of the government to move away from the administrative structure and emphasis here on the people, and that means far more than just the distribution control, e.g. The Senate, the transparency, makes it normal for me to think that it would be a matter of policy and debate. The people of the country must be able to ask for truth and that the members of the government come to the door as they are dressed. Surely, it should be possible to believe and trust that humans will fulfill their word. If not, why are we here? What purpose does this institution serve besides being the most expensive theater in the world? I'd like to say again that I'm sorry that we've been discussing this matter all day and all night instead of doing something upbuilding, such as discussing national law on the continuation of discussions about Iceland's involvement in the European Union, which is a very important matter that the nation calls out for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u247	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She said well that she doesn't quite understand how this bill is being developed and does not get enough professional support for that in terms of the bill, if I get it. A senator is correct. I want to ask you why. A member of the council to see if she has studied the proposals of a government strategist. The aims of their proposals are to strengthen the government's aim for a low budget for the next few years, to make the state sustainable over time, and so on. It is also improving the practicality and success of government management, the efficiency of the state, and the increase in production. The 24th strategist group proposes, by permission of the President: ▪ Secretary of State against a future policy on the organization and the trades of foreign service. Among other things, they can look to the Department of State Association interaction, other recruitments, Iceland Institutes, Development Groups, and emissary office. The development of neighboring foreign services will be examined, looking for examples of innovation that can improve efficiency and success. I want to ask you why. A senator asking her to review it with us if it could be a day order to the highest level. The minister of the State now finds out how he is going to fulfill and meet the proposal of the economic group?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u248	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the inquiry. I have to say no, I haven't studied this case. As with many others in this house, it seems to be a clever way to reach real goals. It's very strange that things can never be completely honest, there's always some games going on that can't be possible for ordinary people to watch and understand what's going on. I think it's very interesting as hell. One senator points out and would like to learn more about it, but I cannot say that I have studied the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u249	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. I'd like to ask her about 3. The bill. It says in the b-part: 'Fifth from among the generals shall be elected by the Generals'. It's about the development team. The article will then discuss the importance of transnational reconciliation and the fact that members of the Parliament have directed access to the observation of developing cooperation. Today, there are six members of the General Assembly. What does that count? A senator's making a pedestrian reconciliation? Who will be left behind when choosing the committee if the five members of the council are but the six members of the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u250	Mr. President. This is very interesting. It's very hard to get cross political approval around here while people are not ready to work together and to be honest with one another about goals and other goals. I don't know, clever people must explain to me what happens in such a situation. But thanks anyway. Thank you. A senator for pointing this out to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u251	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for a clear and good speech. I'd like to ask her about the meeting's arrival for development cooperation. It has been discussed that increasing the arrival of the council is important. I don't want to belittle it, but there are a number of cases that we deal with here, and that is a direct way for the coming of the Parliament to develop cohesion, both natural through inquiries and reporting requests, and at least through a Senate resolution of evolutionary cooperation proposed every three years. Congress is a policy in developing cooperation, both by law and through Congress resolution. It is being suggested that, instead of choosing a representative of the Development Committee, allied members are to sit on some body, a development committee, with representatives from the university community, the university community, the labor market, and the civilist organisations, and that this committee should meet at least twice a year. Now, the Conspiracy has chosen a representative of the committee, people who are considered well qualified to join the seminary. We have, of course, done as members of the council do, called the parties to order, received information, and heard what is happening if necessary, as representatives of the General Assembly are elected. Does the senator think that in order to increase the arrival of members of Congress, they need to be placed on special committees outside the council? Is the Council itself not an adequate ground for our approach to this group? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u252	Mr. President. Of course, members of Congress are to be involved in these matters. But what I find more important is that this process is even more open than it is. Why not keep the process open so that everyone can just see what's going on and take part and have some sort of legal rights in the development of a bill or a song? Why don't you just leave the whole thing open? Although it would be all right for each group to include many interested people who bring their friends into the matter, it seems very surprising to me that these matters are handled in such a close manner and little consultation with the council and other parties.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u253	V.E.G. President. I think me and what. A senator may not agree with this, since the council can naturally divide themselves from these matters as it pleases him, in such cases. For the opening. I think we're supposed to try to open up the control system that makes people more effective. But we have to look at the fact that there is an arrangement for Congress every three years that is sent out to spread a report to a number of people, all of whom can place their share on the balances. A newsletter on development teamwork is then published by the Development Network, but many have developed here that they fear a poor stream of information will be on the case. I'm not saying that a letter of information or a newsletter does not put people in the group, but there is considerable access to information about the seminar. [[The president calls.]] Congress has nothing to do with the situation today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u254	Mr. President. I have to admit that as just a member of this council, there are many things I will learn and still leave many questions left. I am very grateful for all the tips and help I receive from other members of the council. Personally, I would like to see a much more open process all over the council and not only in the preparation of a prime project and a concierge but also in committee meetings, that information is available to the public. Perhaps it would be best to maintain, not only the council, but the general public.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u255	President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It's now 12 o'clock, and it looks like the last answer to the last talk of the day, or the first of the two of us. I hope a senator will come to have a conversation. For that reason, I would like to ask him why. A senator sees how this discussion will help her. Because she is now a deputy senator who has not had much experience with committees or developments, she has not enjoyed observing the matter come in here, passing through 1. ... and then through a Senate Committee and through a 2nd. and then through a vote and then through a 3rd. etc., or monitor how to create a change in the setting. It's been a hell of a day, I suppose. A senator. I would like to ask her to share with us how she sees this discussion. The minister here on the bench tells of a bill that is a administrative bill, and the government as a whole is behind and the government is behind them. And as we have seen, we may not have been given much initiative to communicate with these same administrative committees. So I'm curious to know, so I kind of wait. A senator sharing with us the guest's eye, which she still has as a relatively new deputy, with the tactics that have been seen here by the peoples today, how she sees this, and how this work helps her to see it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u256	Mr. President. Yes, thank you. A senator for this question. It's been a lot of lessons, and I think all of this is really weird. In fact, after such a long and difficult day, I find the most amazing way in which senators can keep their thinking complete, and I have great respect for it. I find the process strange because I hear the loud voices of the people outside this house calling for just listening to them. I'm living up to the promises of betrayal, people don't even get over the fact that they're betraying a promise, as if it were something like this - what were you believing from the start, why are you paying attention to our words? This is your fault for listening to us. I think it's pretty strange somehow. I've been studying this bill today, and I've seen how pierced it is and how unthinked all of this is. I don't understand that there's a discussion. I feel that it is disrespectful to voters, to take the matter on the agenda in a more important matter, especially to people who live in active democracy. I experience that this system is a bit broken and I don't really want to believe it, I'm a very optimistic person, and I want to keep in mind that there's some restoration hope here, and we can save this and work together. Well, maybe it's a little tight. I can't see that men are very interested in working together. There seems to be something stubborn going on where this is so, well, who can have the greatest endurance? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u257	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for sharing these questions with us. You see, I completely agree with her. We've all seen it here, at least on behalf of the left green, I have offered it, and I have sincerely come to work on such a precious subject. I share it with what? A senator experiences that there is no one who wants such a cooperation or a total of such. Hv. A senator speaks of her feeling a deep desire for him to be listened to and that we have a powerful, open conversation with people and that we prefer those in the country about the real issues in the public. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator how she sees the role of the government in a world where the government does not listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-24-84.u258	Mr. President. My understanding of the government or the smaller part is completely different from that of earlier times and that of the council. I had no understanding of this before. But now I understand that this thing we're doing right now that we've been doing all day is, unfortunately, the only tool we have to try to change for the good. These are the tools, but there's no tools. This has become so, in effect, that the government has come to the point where it's just a '-myway or the highway' -- excuse the sleigh. But what should we do? I can't see that there's anything you can do besides just say it. And I think we've done quite well and I'm rather sad how empty it's been here in terms of the government.
