ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u1	Borist has a letter from the 9th. South, Vilhjálmur Árnason, says that he will not be able to attend a meeting in the near future. So today, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of the Independence Party lists the district's "Geir Jón Þórisson." Geir Jón Þórisson has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u2	V.E.G. President. I would like, at the end of the council, to discuss three very important matters. One has been moved, i.e. The natural pass, of the highest. Minister. The case was barely said to be a very bad case here at 1st. and has come to us on the job board but has not been discussed and will not be completed, based on the statements made at this council, so it is dead, this very important matter. The responsibility for this is no one but the highest. Secretary of Árnadóttir Elín, in this mess. The other two bills I'd like to make up for coverage are the ones we've heard about, two housing issues, very important bills from the highest level. Social Affairs Ministers who were sent to the Ministry of finance some time ago and are still on cost assessment. V.E.G. Ministers have sent mail to the financial agency for energy rods to win the cost faster than I think the force there to win the case, I think it's rather that the Minister doesn't have support for the case within the government. Yesterday it happened here, in the final court of Ministers on a completely different matter, on another kind of housing, that the minister said and implied that these bills would not be revealed because the Ministry of finance had not completed them. Thus there are two important matters that all are waiting for, whether they are local buyers, buyers of the first apartment, or tenants, that will not then be discussed and completed. There's a mess written on the top. Department of Social Affairs and the whole government. She does not have the support for these matters, so they do not act out. A respectable president. I wanted to draw attention to these three matters here and to the false tactics of the ministers I have here made as a publicity material. I'm very unhappy that things aren't going to work out at this council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u3	A respectable president. Finally, the weather gods give us a chance to pump sand out of the landland. So I am thrilled that this vast transportation process opens up, which is so important to all of us in the country. With persistent south winds throughout the winter at the critical height of the century, it finally reached the north. Sadly, it is not a slow north side but a sharp north side with its warm cold and snowy snowfall in the north, but since it is landbound in the islands, the sand - pump ships can function in a great wind. What can we learn from this winter? Perhaps it doesn't matter which ship would have been sailing between the country and the island during the winter, large or smaller, that there would have been no chance of making any sense? First, the port opened in March, but this time in early May. No human power can keep the island of the land open all year long. The sooner we face it, the sooner we concentrate on developing the working ports, the sooner it becomes a real possibility that the land base will be used for the whole year. So I encourage people to focus more on developing ports than on building less ships. I can't come up here for the job of the council without referring to the work at the council and the language that has been a great deal during the last few days where the person being here is repeatedly accused of corruption. I'm sorry, though, that my colleagues on committees jump onto the bus as soon as the media flag starts. I challenge members of Congress to make changes to the Senate interest logs, although only additional issues are added to the registration form so that additional information can be put if it is chosen. I've already sent out a news release on my case, and I hope she explains my side to those who wish to understand on another level.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u4	A respectable president. Even now, there is room to improve the ideals of various groups in the country. When we talk about the lowest paid groups in society, those who actually have 200 yous. K. During a month, the largest groups are tens of thousands of elderly and desperate persons who have not enjoyed the pay box, who have not enjoyed the enormous wealth of money, and who need to enjoy the fruits of the economic development of the past few years in the modern society's choice of compensation. [[...the Consequences...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u5	Six years in the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u6	When people talk about a minimum wage in the country, they have to reach 300 levels at a certain time. K. is, of course, to say that these groups, microattainers, and pensioners, those of the country's lowest wage, also need correction. To ensure that these groups will not be left in the collective agreements, the government and the personnel of the labour market, but will be assured of the same adjustments as others. For example, half of the microchip has no income from a pension fund, only the written benefits from the government insurance agency. It is true that if a person has a small income, whether from a pension fund, employment income, or capital pay, he is just as hard again as a organized poverty trap. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u7	V.E.G. President. All of us here have specific ideals and issues that we would like to face. As indicated by our work, there may vary a wide range of subjects. Of course, all of us are supposed to respect other people's opinions, but sometimes you have to say what you think, and that's what I'm going to do here. It's hard to sit behind words. A senator who thinks it's a demarcation to want to cancel insurance. No one can't have missed it. A senator in this room that makes me one of them. Congressmen who want to cancel insurance on consumer loans. And why is that? This is because I don't want to see our country's homes and families living with a mutant price - secure loan if there's any economic tragedy here. The second reason is that insurance loans can lead to increased inflation or higher perspiration on certain conditions. An increase in the position of the head is made up of banks to make their own money rise. In this way, their scope for making money increases. It can also increase in inflation that raises the loans of homes. In the presence of inflation, business banks make a great deal of money where they have more money than they owe. So it seems that there is a great deal of interest to the banks that inflation and insurance are available. The fact is, if inflation rises by 1%, the business banks will profit by 1.5 billion. There is a clean property transfer from the homes of the country to financial institutions. It is important that the bills involved in decommissioning insurance on consumer loans that are at the head of Congress. Secretary of finance is able to enter this council. Besides, I have to tell you, I have to tell you that housing bills are still there. paritaprevir Kristján Möller spoke about in his speech earlier, it is important that we, who are waiting for these bills to continue, speak only, and press that they can pass through.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u8	A respectable president. I want to make a subject of that letter the highest. Ólöf Nordal's minister sent to Reykjavíkurburg on April 20th. which made the note that the permit given to the city of Reykjavík has been performed in the region of Valsman is, in fact, illegal, lawlessness, dignified president, since it appears, by permission of the president: ▪ In accordance with national planning regulations adopted by the Transport Minister of Transport and published in the Law's Journal of August 7, 2009, there are inhibitors on the landing lines of the field runway, including runway 6-24. The development intended in the region of the Valsmans is within the area of the guidelines set out in Reykjavík, and it is therefore forbidden to build monuments for the surface, as stated in 2 mg. Fifty-niner. track No. 60/1998, through air travel Not only does Reykjavíkurburg not exceed the authority it has on these matters but it also takes into account the possible effects on the closure of the runway called an emergencyway. I have previously criticized that this is a great administrative center because since this case began for the last time, it has taken 16 months, and I remind you of the court's court order. In addition, Reykjavíkurburg works out of the agreement that had been made with the so - called Rackham Committee, to have nothing to do with the sufferers, and in the Hydromes until some decision had come to the work of the Committee. I think it's very serious, Mr. Honorable President. This is Reykjavík City, exactly in contrast with law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u9	V.E.G. President. On Friday, the Battle Day of the 1st labor will be celebrated. This time, in the shadow of one of the most brutal work markets of later years. All of us can be sure that the patient endurance of the class with the lowest wage is being lost. The task force demands about 300 of you. K. minimum pay for a full-time job and BHM wants education to be paid. Fair demands in my opinion. It is interesting, but it is also predictable to observe the professional drivers and rights response to this situation. More than one and more than two members of the Independence Party respond by suggesting that this need to be reviewed. Well, that's the last thing I've ever done. The minister of finance here in this symposium yesterday with the expression that he was afraid to accept the discussion, which actually seems to be a facade for those who make an exhilarating viewpoint. From the top words. A financial minister might assume that there had been some change in nature in strikes and that there was now a dramatic change in the intention of biting. Of course, the strike weapon has always been used that way. In January, teachers have not gone to strike in the summer or in the store. However, the right forces in this country have always been confident that they will cry out from under the labor movement and will want to accept the discussion of reviewing the strike rights. That was the way it was 20 years ago, so it is now, and that is probably how it will be after 20 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u10	V.E.G. President. I'd like to draw attention to a positive report from last week that appeared on the island a week ago and in the headline, with permission from the top. President: The Union supports the requirements of the employee - the first time that support is clearly expressed. The report relates a conclusion made by the United States Parliament party together for their support of 300 yous. K. Minimum wage. As a result, much of this had been called from among the grass subclasses, both sides of the country and unions. One of the main voices in the Union's Cobra Republic called the Party, by permission of President, the faintest group in the world. [[Up front.]] In this reality, the forward party council concluded, but the United States Summit's meeting was not used to make special consideration of the people's salary, since they were preoccupied with the construction of a local chairman's contract and left him on cold ice. [[Up in the hall: right.]] [[Up in the hall: right.]] They actually left him in the same position as that cowboy in Hallar's text and Laddi from around here about the year. It says, by permission of the President: One. - Stop counting, it's me. In that position, the chairman of the United States is today. It is good that a lump of iron has finally been sharpened, and surely the Union has found its unions or unions. But in view of what's going on in this talk, I have to admit that I felt that the president of the Group of Congress told on TV on Sunday that the Union's history and the labor movement were interwoven. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u11	A respectable president. We tend to, and it is normal, to compare ourselves with the countries we would like to be like. It is worth considering that we are in the position that the level of money we buy has increased more in this country than in the countries we compare with. Unemployment is very low, pay has increased more, and this has been a constantity that is something we Icelanders have not been used to, inflation is extremely low. Yet, we look at the confusion of a job market, something we must discuss. We want to have a medium-sized contract, and we have a big employee movement, and then professional drivers who don't just negotiate for money, but we also control most of the country's Pension Fund. But now it's just not working. You can have all the opinions about what the requirement is, what to do, what to do, it's not working, and it's a very serious situation. It's very special that we see these conditions ahead of our job markets and a lot of strikes. There is nothing wrong with discussing the use of the strike rights. The strike rights originally come as weapons of low wages because they had no other advice. But we certainly have come to a different place now. The situation is extremely serious, and something must be done to prevent very serious things. Let's be absolutely clear that if we're thinking of the least of those allowed to go wrong, they'll get the worst out of a high inflation and a lot of turmoil and conflict and work battles. [[The president calls.]] Those people are going to go way out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u12	A respectable president. The situation in Reykjavík and many on the highways of the country is ignored by no one. Car fuel has high taxes, both oil tax and fuel tax. These taxes are designed to prepare and maintain road maintenance. In 2010, annulled release from these fuel expenditures, such as biofuels, was registered. In 2013 men were then obliged to mix traditional fuels with such biofuels. The chemicals that have been transferred so far are twice as expensive as conventional fuels. In fact, this tax will has nearly all run out of the country to the foreign manufacturers of life's oil. There is now a total of hundreds of millions of dollars a year as a result of this tax payment. The money runs out of the country, hundreds of millions of them. This actually corresponds to all the money that Reykjavík spends every year in maintenance the road. At the same time, less money comes on the road. It is actually using road coins to subsidize the import of plant oil, which the state previously made of fuel costs have now run off into subsidies to buy expensive fuel. I'll mention it here because I, along with a lot of other things. Councilmen, have proposed a bill to correct the intention of stopping this uncontrolled flow of capital from the country. I think the matter is very important because it is talking about the interests of the State for hundreds of millions of dollars. I am concerned, however, that the members of this council are not on the program for the rest of the council, at least there is no evidence to suggest. Only one legal bill for the Council of Congress has been approved at this council, and only one bill awaits the 3rd. I think it is a great dismay if this suspicion of me is correct and I would like to encourage the president who has spoken the council's case sincerely to apply himself in this respect and to make sure of the table, not merely a democratic discussion of the matters that have been elected to represent the legal authority here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u13	A respectable president. For 21 months, sugar tax from the old left government was a heavy tax in the homes of the country. The research site examined the effect of the sugar tax on prices and consumption, and the result was: The tax gave a tax of nearly a billion dollars. The taxation of the left government, to change the eating habits of the people in the country, was, in effect, a tax at home according to the results of the research site. This reminds me of the big words I made in my part of the council when we discussed changes in the value taxation bill here in the first winter. A respectable president. Now it's different. The independence and forwarding party administration have led to a fall in taxes and a breakdown in the product expenditures and to a reduced and reduced budgets in the country's homes and businesses. The rate of inflation is historically low, and it has been for a long time. The cost has dropped, the power of riches has grown, and the crown has grown stronger. A respectable president. Why is there no prices in the land in this situation? Can't we ask a national opinion on the reduction in prices? No. Strangely, prices rise at the same time as social stability prevails. From January 1, 2013 to March 1, last March, pork has increased by 8.43% to consumers, but at the same time, the farm price of pigs has fallen by 8.91%. This information was found in the highest range. The pro board this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u14	It's a pig's tea.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u15	It's a pig's tea. I agree with that. Senator. I wondered, " What way is a business in the country? ' When people are gaining additional wealth and higher wages, the store is stealing them from people by not participating in the peace that has to be enjoyed. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u16	A respectable president. I'm going to make an interview here at the council's conduct of foreign artists with Icelandic nature. Within a short period of time, it has doubled to the foreign arts, though it is appropriate to abuse Icelandic nature. It happened north of the country, that I remember last year, where moss was damaged and dismembered. The artist took that picture and later showed. Recently another artist feels that it is appropriate to meet east of Geys, put a dye in Struff, and make some kind of repair. I don't know, a respectable president, whether these artists have been punished in any way or if their language has been addressed. What I feel is now missing are comments, shouts and calls, from the Union of Icelandic artists who condemn such conduct. We tend to go and object if we do one thing or another. Here are prominent artists from outside the world, allowing themselves to act in such a way that it seems as if we didn't have to pay tickets or deal with them because we only hear about what they're doing in the news but nothing later. A respectable president. I think it sucks. I allow me to refer this talk to the environment and transport committee to see how such matters are handled in the community and what we can do to prevent foreign artists from feeling that such behavior is appropriate for Icelandic nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u17	Mr. President. If I've looked at this calendar right this morning, April 28th, it's confirmed. So, April is about to be over, that is four or five weeks from now, from 12 to 15 real meetings, except for weekends and day committees. Mr. President. There's still no water in the transport program. The reign of this government is half over. It's been two years since the last election. They did get caught up in pancake cars and ate for a month before the government was assembled, but the ideal period is half past, Mr. President, and this government has not yet revealed a transport plan or a revised transport plan. Now it's raining upon us the emergency cries of the situation in the road system. Hv. paritaprevir Sigríður Á. Andersen made it a subject of the above: perhaps freely carried the facts of the environmental fuel effect, which is another matter. Whether it is ruined by malar roads, 40 to 50 years of age, or on the main road system for which the road system has been minimally maintained, the highway system itself, or the footways here in Reykjavík and the capital area to which the Roadmaker is responsible, it is kept in such a minimum minimum minimum that the road system is damaged and there is no new development. Like what? paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller said it's gonna be a world record of not doing anything, or Iceland record of not doing anything about transportation. It is true now that a proposal for a budget plan for the next four years will, unfortunately, convince us that the situation will not improve much for the next four years if this government or the greater part of it achieves its will. There is expected to be virtually no additional in the total investments of the State for the next four years. 1.2% of GDP, about 30 billion k, through the year 2019, does not draw good things. But if this bitter reality is to happen then the government will do so well and show it and bring the transport program that shows us black and white that it is not going to do anything about the road for the next four years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u18	Mr. President. The International Job Day is this Friday. Workers in many parts of the earth are fighting for better benefits. What comes from this government is not very upbuilding, as we have seen at the highest level. Secretary of finance, which says that there may have been too much progress in improving or equalizing the terms of the country. It's an inn of the highest. Governments into today's difficult situation. One day, the Independence Party spoke about a class with a class, it was a slogan of the Independence Party, a state of state. Where is that class now if he does not understand that wage in the country needs to survive more than just 200 grand a month? At the Assembly of the Future Party, the people enthusiastically talked about being among low - paying people. I call for these bands and their officers, the highest. Ministers of these classes, in action showing them that they have a class and that they are holding the people's wages in the land now in these difficult circumstances. They have the opportunity to do so through their negotiation committees to BHM, and they also have the opportunity to do so by having less - paying approval than they have to be. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson spoke of the former government placing $1 billion on the people of the country with a sugar tax. But what does this government do? It puts $11 billion on the people with a tax on food, which includes such foods as vegetables and fruits. Is it not more important for the people of the country to buy loyalty than to let go of the candy bar on weekends? [[The president calls.]] I think this government should go back to improving the terms of the people in the country, not having empty statements. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u19	A respectable president. It is difficult to get into the public speaker's public address. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. I want to be like other senators, like hell. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen and what. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, entitles the priorities of members of the Parliament's work and members of the Parliament. We're all waiting for the many issues of counsel, especially the top-house bill of social and housing Ministers that never comes. So we can't work with it, that's the nature of it. However, it is enough to do so, since members of the Parliament have been diligent at the beginning of the council, and because we senators know that it is difficult to get our affairs to be used to getting to them at the beginning of the council, so we are now not caught up in anything. However, although the president has often said that this is a matter of more and more serious interest in the council, it is that we have not done enough of the Senate business, they always get to stay behind. We are here at council not only to accept matters late and eventually from counsellors but also to be his followers at the council in order to follow our convictions and to present matters that are important to us. It is very important that the directors of the committee and the president of the Generals respect the members of Congress and bring them to the top of the order where they were in the first place, because members of Congress are always early in their affairs. I'm calling because I know that a lot of senators are waiting for a release that was long done for members of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u20	V.E.G. President. I would like to open this speech by stating that there is a bit of a strange situation when the United States Parliament party concludes things when society is on fire in strikes, and who is facing the worst? Yeah, business council and the forward party. [[Up front.]] Then we know. I come up here to express a lot of concern that one of the largest resources in the country, unnorable nature, is exposed to severe damage from increasing tourism to the country. Now, the tourism service has become the largest export branch in Iceland. Of course, we want it as the most and best part of the article, but then we need to maintain our resources, especially the natural resource. On behalf of industrial and commercial ministers, it was proposed that the bill will not become a law, for it is such a problem that few can think of supporting it. This does not change the fact that we have to earn the income that the natural pass was to provide for the construction of tourist attractions and to create a new stop for tourists to place the stress on the land. So we in the United States would like to stress the fact that there will be an increase in funding in the fund for the construction of tourist facilities that will respond to the income that would come from a natural pass of another billion, and they need to be informed at once that they should be put in there so that they can be given strength to the many employees who applied for funding from the fund. [[The president calls.]] The pursuit of funds is over 2 billion. [[The president calls.]] There must be a statement about such sums immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u21	Mr. President. I'm not in a lot of trouble. It's not often 4th. n.. No. step into this chair gentle and happy and determined in the determination to commend the government, but I am at the height. A minister of finance who was to oppose my praise at the outset is not here in his seat. Is he coming to the council so that he may hear my words, or is he far away? V.E.G. Mr President knows I'm not in the habit of demanding a minister for a meeting, but is he coming?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u22	President thinks the highest power is coming. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u23	Then I may have to shorten my speech and I will deliver it in the afternoon. this case. I wanted to start by saying that I'm happy to the top. The government has finally submitted the first national budget to four years. In this way the government is thus broken, and it can be said that it is in that way by means of the regulations and proposals found in the 2011 Parliamentary Changes to submit such a program. A part of the purpose of it is, of course, to increase the way of the council and its authority. It is being done to enable the council to arrive earlier in discussions about national goals, capitals, and major aspects before it comes to discussing the budget every year. I find this to be praiseworthy. For the first time, though, such a plan is not laid out. I recall, Mr. President, that in the past government, a paper of this nature was presented, but not as a Senate case, in 2009, 2011, and 2012, and was the most useful. I believe this kind of plan is a very good tool for the council. It enables us to look ahead, as well as move between lawsuits, if there is a solidarity at the High Council or a new attack if thought necessary. For example, it would have been desirable to see in this program that in the next few years the construction of a new Land Hospital would have been planned, but there is no evidence to suggest that there should be any extra money outside of the plan, that it should be completed the building of hospital hotels, as well as the main core core core design, except for the 7,700,800 million that are proposed to design and then starting at the hospital core, well, there are only 51.7 billion over the whole period, and of course humans will see that there are no room for that in this program. It is the nature of the power factors that play together in our administration that the Council has the role of implementing the Commission. It may not be our primary concern in opposition to government, if that is the case, in a material way, with harsh criticism of the issues that come from the government. It is and the harmony of the elements that makes this society ours, despite everything and whatever is said would be good. At the same time as I express my joy in the appearance of a budget plan, I was going to give my highest commendation. Of course, for that, I must say that, at the same time, such a strategy is a mirror brought up to a ruler's policy. It has to be said at the moment that I don't agree with the way the policy is shown. Governments. For example, in this program it is assumed that there is little and much lower than I thought there was a debate among the generals in the back of the crisis. We all know that this has proved necessary to attack a very massive recession and subcontraction in front of a gaping hole in the Icelandic government budget of 213 billion, which I'm sure is the highest. former financier J. Sigfússon would now respect 290 billion. So people had to engage in a very aggressive operation, but it was everyone's recommendation that when it was over and we were sailing out, as is shown well in this bill, they would hit it. However, it is not expected that the combination will increase at this time except for an average of 1.6% per year. In comparison, it increased by 4% per year over the years before a crash. It is our job to point out what may be a weakness in this synonym. There are many weaknesses in it, and that is all there is to say. First of all, I specifically mention that ahead is a very difficult argument. We heard before. paritaprevir The Guðlaug - god of Þór Þórðarson expressed strong words in the manner of uncertainty ahead and of great agitation and perhaps the most difficult situation that has developed in a work market for decades. It was the word of a senator, not of mine. So I say in the program there is no uncertainty about this coming year. However, it can be illustrated by its conclusions, by a 2% increase in buying power. I'm asking, Mr President, must this not be considered a weakness? Is it really possible to conclude that such agreements can be concluded after the state itself has recently completed a bargain with doctors and teachers who probably run into thirds? I think it's highly unlikely. On the one hand, I refer to the bottom line. A financial minister in his historical history who described it with a very strong color how bright it was ahead, the land shining white and beautiful. So they think that people who live on the rights of over 200 far away. K. does it not want to receive a dose of that prosperity? Absolutely. A weakness number two I'm seeing on this is the execution of a penitentiary. They are ahead of us, most important, and the most challenging work we have ever faced together. This can lead to serious uncertainty about both gangs and interest levels, but it is hardly said to be increased. However, I would also like to say that in this bill, there may not be some hidden benefits, but I believe that it is not possible to subsidize currency capitals other than to shave the well-growing crowning of the broiled farms. I believe, in view of the scenarios that lay before the end of the last terms due to the last election period by the government, the Secret Bank and the AGS, that it may result in significant loss of population to the center of the state, which in accordance with the administration of the last government, was to go only to lower the debt of the state. It could run into hundreds of billions. I'm gonna allow me to predict that it should, in order that, in turn, would be in the best interests of a minimum-of-a-per-per-burst, be able to free 300 billion. It matters and in order to be honest, I want it to become evident, too, that it is not counted as what may be expected in the future. Third, I believe it is a great weakness that it is assumed that the State's debt during this schedule is almost nonexistent. True, they decrease as a proportion of land production, as it increases, but the balance of debt remains unchanging. This is remarkable, considering the state of the nation's population. We can see this very clearly on page 8. 21 In the report, the story goes down only at the beginning, but then it doesn't. And why turn down the start of this schedule? Yes, because they're selling 30% shares in the Lands Bank, and another weakness is revealed. Whether or not, the other member of the board is opposed. He has recently agreed that the Lands Bank should be a community bank, not keeping the bank both in its eyes and selling much of it. This is a serious weakness. When you examine the highest possible ways. The secretary of finance is going to turn in the next few years and we see that no special increase or recovery of the primary balance of state funds is expected if you examine it as a proportion of gross domestic product. This is made clear in the chart on page 22. 19 and it shows that the improvement between 2015 and 2016 is 0%. Between 2016 and 2017, of course, he's 1%. It goes back the next year because it's back to 0.7%, and it should then improve by 0.1% in 2019. Sir faithful, I only refer to what happened during the last term when the original equation increased to large jumps three times during the election season. [[The president calls.]] I have to say, with a government that looks to the future with this light, it is a weakness not to assume that your debts will be reduced.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u24	A respectable president. We are here discussing an extensive case, no less than the long-term plan of financial funds, and it seems to me that the chair of financial and economic minister, the official of the case, is money. I'm asking the highest. The president is not quite clear that the minister of finance is in the house to listen to the discussion and to respond to the inquiries presented and conclude the discussion on his part today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u25	V.E.G. Secretary of finance isn't in the house. The president was aware of that. The minister of finance would not be present for this discussion. Nevertheless, the president decided to set the matter up. V.E.G. The minister of finance was present all day long, and in view of the lack of numbers on the rosary, the president did not consider it unusual that the discussion would continue without the highest level of attendance. Secretary of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u26	Mr. President. We're here on a matter of convergence proposals for the budgetary budget of 2016-191919. This is the first of its kind, so it should be delighted that it has arrived, and hopefully a new session will be scheduled for the Senate discussion of financial matters. Agent of the Conspiracy, huh? paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir, did well with regard to the evidence. The chairman of the Conspiracy, huh? paritaprevir The annual Páll Árnason, in particular, did underlying economic issues at the same time end up with a representative of the Economic and Business Committee. He handled that show very well. Various members of the party have also made comments about the matter, now last of all. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. I was going to approach this because this national budget is not only a financial and economic agenda but also a political policy plan. Let us examine this political policy in view of the fact that in the media, the minister of this matter has the highest authority. Financial and economic ministers, saying that perhaps it was too far off in this country, that pay requirements are too high, and that it is tireless to remind the independence party's policy of reducing taxes. This document is the result of this political demonstration by the chairman of the Independence Party, that it is more appealing to them at the expense of those who have less, and to bear, and at the expense of the service that we all have together, and to enjoy together, and to create a better and just society. We will be following a lengthy discussion of housing matters, even if only part of the bill is available, but I can see what is said on page 6. 2, with President's permission: It is designed to change government housing policy with the goal of supporting better with income - poor families and strengthening the position of the first buyers. Those are wonderful promises, though they do not say much but on page 30. 5 is basically taken back with a kind of threat. The labour agreements and the uncertainty and risk factors in the Icelandic economy are referred to for these reasons and must be resolved so that prices will not be disturbed. Then, with the permission of the president, they say: Alternatively, there will be a need to re-evaluate the criteria of the strategy, and may allow this to occur. influence the ability of the government to take action whether on the income or on the remuneration side of the programme. This may therefore affect tax, investment, and other activities, such as housing. At the same time, stability in the economy is important for the preparation of funding decommissioning measures. If the independent party feels paid people are overemphasis in collective agreements, the plans for taxes, investments, and housing should be put to the fore. I'm going to be so unscrupulous as to predict that investments and housing will be taken over, but there will be no reduction in tax declines that seem to be about the only thing that this government can do except when it comes to raising taxes on food. There are taxes, but there was no problem. Because we're in the taxes, I'd like to make it a subject of talk. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphéðinsson, who was on a talk before me, crossed the concern that despite the very good supply of state funds that has come from the tireless work of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir during the last term, it will not be able to reduce the debt of the State except as a proportion of GDP because it will grow, but it will not have to reduce to name prices. Then maybe it's nice to point out why. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor says that it will be our expected task when we hopefully get to a greater part of the council after the next election to deal with our debts, the legacy from an independent party, and an forward group that they do not trust to deal with. Let us consider only if this lack of action is necessary to cover debt. We all think it's important, at least On the left of the political wing, we want to address our debt because we have so much interest costs, even more than in other countries, because we have such an unfavourable currency. These are so high that they take to heart much of the government fees. That's why we want to lower our debt. Is it being relaxed because education, health care, or social security systems are being offered so much? No, Mr. President, it's not. It was decided to defend 80 billion people who could have somehow gone to pay off debts, to bring down their homes'debts. Some of these measures were necessary, but 51 billion of the 80 have been guided by the prime minister of finance to 30% of the highest income of the country's homes. There was 51 billion that we could have used to pay off debts. In the reduced bounty charges, there would have been money to reduce debt, and that would have been significant, the annual budget into the state fund for them. The wealth tax from which the government was inclined to extend, the tax laid on those people in Iceland most of the property, i.e. pure property over 100 million - no, that was not a great willingness to extend that tax. It seems completely impossible for the current government to find out taxes on tourists, tax that is essential to building income in order to maintain tourist areas and to build up a new, growing network around this growing, now the largest export branch in the country. It's hard to read a document like this about a government fund, which is actually on calm seawater. There are difficult tasks that must be solved in favor of capitalists who are in charge of camp loans and commitments to pensions. There are many things to take and enough work ahead that require both courage and overall vision. It is shocking to see that this is to be used to reduce taxes on those most of them. It has already been done, and further tax reductions continue to be made so that in the years following, we will not pay off debt. What's even more serious is that we won't be able to improve the transport process as it has been done. We will not place considerable money on the health system that is vital. We're not going to add money to education, so we're going to drive people 25 years old and older out of college and not into college. There are promises of changes in the social security system, but where money seems to be a problem, it does not seem to be willing to place extra money in the case of the disabled who are now in a duke between local members and the state. It is this political vision that I regret, and I hope it is. The budget shows the power of the council and adjusts the focus of this frame.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u27	A respectable president. With members of the United States, we have made this discussion of some concern, and we are working on turning the state's money over the last term, we took a government fund with an almost 200 billion angle, and here we had to make many difficult decisions to reverse it. However, it is not to see that the Governing Body takes this discussion seriously, and to be honest, it is quite amazing that the minister of finance does not even care for himself to be present at the first. for government policy for its own government. It's true to say that it's not just the board that takes this document nothing seriously but that financial and economic ministers themselves don't take it particularly seriously. Then you ask yourself, " Do I have any work or policy in this document that has been targeted, since even if my minister is not in the mood for the discussion, the executives will not participate in it now the second day in a row if I am left out? ' paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson if I recall correctly and maybe some exceptionally others who have overlooked me. This is exactly what has been called for, including. Because the plan is based on sale of assets, which we see no better than the recent decision of the financial secretary's team, i.e. The panel recently concluded that the National Bank should make it some kind of bank that means that the Party cannot at the same time make short plans for the state to sell its property in the bank at the market to the highest market to make clear interest requirements for its property. The strategy laid down here by the financial and economic secretary is based on the sale of these assets. Therefore, it is difficult to see how this government should make the strategy set forth here. To the reality and become exciting to see if the PTA members of Vigdís Hauksdóttir, the chairman of the budgetary committee, are going to deliver these proposals for sale of property in the bank of society, unchanged to the future. But maybe this is just not to be taken seriously. The rest must be taken seriously, i.e. In what way there is a jury at the highest. Minister of the Eygló Harðardóttir is involved in this programme, how the social affairs are handled in this budget for financial matters, where there is no special compensation for tens of thousands of elderly people in the country, and 16500 micro-energy pensioners who have been allowed to wait a long time to see some correction of their dresser. The fact that we don't have any donations at all in housing, which is probably becoming one of the biggest problems in society. First, the highest. The minister of finance is not in the discussion to answer questions about his own matters. Social Affairs Minister, Eygló Harðardóttir, is in the house calling for her to answer to the discussion if it is right what you read out of the program, that the government does not assume any significant increase in donations, not in the pension for the elderly, not in the forwards of microenergy donors and no significant solutions to housing. If the government is to leave these large social issues behind for the next three years without making any progress in it, I can better understand why government officials do not participate in the discussion. It is the policy that hardly any human can defend, and perhaps only natural, that the head of the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, has chosen to let the talk be completed to distant people, as unusual as it may be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u28	Mr. President. I mean, I'm sorry to come back here for a short number, but this case is still so growing that it calls for a basic speech because this is a public interest. I told you earlier that this kind of national financial program was also a mirror that could be brought up to the current government policy. I'm telling you honestly, I think that the direction that appeared there isn't exactly the one I would've wanted to see there. It is not guided by social equations as I get next to it by having read the bill. I would have wanted to ask the highest. A minister of finance who unfortunately cannot attend this discussion, which in fact is somewhat unusual about such a key matter, certain questions about figures about taxes. But now it's so good to hunt that the second best minister is there, the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, so I'll allow myself to ask her about that in return. This synonym suggests that the tax returns as a proportion of GDP will decrease from 28.8% to 26.9% in 2019, and I ask: "How does this happen? What taxes are the ones that are likely not related to national production? Is there something that is being proclaimed that probably in the kroner is worth a significant tax cut? Where is this to be seen in the budgeted projections of those years? I'd like to hear that from the top. The Minister of Social Affairs, for I know that she is well- versed in the financial affairs and has, as it is known, put a full hand to set matters right through there, although I do not know how her energy pieces have benefited her so far. On the other hand, it is also important, in view of the proclamations that are highest. Social security ministers have given recent losses on the pensions of the elderly, on the forwards of disability, but not least on increasing improvements in the housing system and on the increase in funding there, that it explains to the poor like me who stands here like a bum after reading these council-sense proposals through without seeing in the state terms of the broad figures of budgeted bills to the year 2018 made a basis for an increase in these classes where they can be seen and read from this council agreement directly expected to be expected to be the highest level. Social Ministers will be enabled to fulfill their declarations of pension to the elderly, on the increase in disability growth, as well as on increased funds for the housing system. Where are these matters? Sets the top. A social minister will only show his teeth, grow small - but never bites? Sets the top. Social Affairs Minister of Independence in all its major matters? I declared it and was actually ashamed of some to say that I have the highest. Social Affairs minister in her efforts to get additional funding into the housing system. We all know her great story of experience, since she has even felt it necessary to show the financial personnel a little in her profounds, as was famous here in the days when she sent them the pieces of energy. But I'd like to ask the highest. A minister because she's at the discussion: Has that worked? First of all, the answers I would like to receive are the ones when we can assume that the bills she has spoken about finally coming over the next few days from the D.A.'s grip on the government and will be taken care of. I'm going to ask her straight out: Can we assume that these bills will happen in the next few weeks? If not, can she tell us if they will appear before the end of the council? Second, I ask for the highest. A minister will help me see where in this council resolution we are making this increase in disability, to the elderly, and to the housing system that she has made so dramatic statements about?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u29	Mr. President. What I just want to add on my part to this discussion, I didn't have time to discuss it properly in my previous talk, is about the prospects and facts that are being presented to us or the political policies that are being developed there. I've been thinking about her ever since I got my hands on her and began to study it. To be honest, I'm surprised that society has not been getting more attention where this is headed, e.g. in the current climatic business. At some point, the labour market members and perhaps especially the labor movement would have looked to what is being offered in connection with the emphasis on government affairs and sharing in the coming years. The most serious individual figure in this I believe is the plan that cost without irregular joints will be dropped to 23.4% of gross domestic product in 2019. What are initials without irregular joints? It is the real underlying government business that is removed from the pages of the plus and minus that fall in an irregular manner. In other words, the cost of growing costs and irregular joints. I assure you, this is the most long - range ratio that we have been shown in such programmes and a significant variation from previous financial programmes, both spring 2009, fall 2011, and fall of 2012. It is simply the compass set away from the Norwegian welfare community. That's it. It is of great interest that the program should be set so that it should not even share with others in the growth of land production in the coming years. Someone would have hoped that when the State's interest costs cut short, i.e. If that happens, would people exchange space, between investments in the infrastructure and financial expenditures, and perhaps subsidies? It's not. The weakness of this program is also a factor in paying down interest costs, not because debt reduces the value of names, but because interest will decrease. It's shown hunting, but it's not given. Is it likely that Iceland's real interest level is going down a lot, I don't talk about this if there's something going wrong with the job market, and the Sullaban thinks he's going to have to work against the risk of thawing with direct interest? Is it likely that in the first few years after the release of a currency school, if it becomes reality, you will be able to drive with very low physical growth in Iceland? No, it's not very likely, so I believe, over the next four years, plans to reduce interest costs are unrealistic at 1 percentage of GDP. If that happened, and I had been wrong, which, of course, I was hoping, is not enough to carry out the road or the expenses for social security and welfare. On the contrary, there is a trend toward a further decline in the budget and a 1 percent lower in GDP at the end of 2019. I think social - minded forces in the country, the labor movement, and others who take it to heart need to examine the situation very carefully. It's the work of men. This is created with a set of tax reductions, with 11 billion in a single - boarded wealth tax. Even the people did not limit themselves to lowering him or reevaluating him, nor did they strike him down as he did, so that the highest families in the country received the greatest gift in this long time of life. Although food tax was raised in return, the costs have been reduced, the income tax from the middle phase has been reduced, the remunerations are dropped by various luxury companies. At the end of the next year, energy taxes drop to 2.2 billion and are then announced, collected to the end of time, a total of 6 billion additional tax reductions, and that is loss of income. It's a big space that's gone, which makes the government plan such a thing, and they probably want it to be political. I know that not everyone is able to read these numbers, or is necessarily aware of what is said in this kind of figure, that the initial expenditure will be dropped to 23.4%, but this may be one of the largest and most important political statements this government has made, that it will interfere with the consumption of this level. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u30	V.E.G. President. The discussion that has taken place on this synopsis proposal for the budget of the budget of the budget of the year 2016◯2019 is new. As noted earlier, the idea of a change in the General Assembly in 2011 was established to put this into a Senate system as soon as it was decided that the Council would meet earlier, i.e. A second Tuesday in September, instead of October 1st, as previously had been. This was precisely to create the General Assembly more time to discuss the budgets of each year on budgets at the council and on other committees. That's why I'm glad that this council proposal has finally arrived. If I remember correctly, that may be a mismatch, she was to appear last year, but she did not. In other words, there may have been valid reasons, but it is here, and we have the biggest skeleton on it. I must also say that I hope that this government budget will undergo significant changes in the coming years, in which there will be more of the information we especially want to discuss, but not so many pages on a number of subjects that may not be so urgent to discuss here, i.e. A policy in the coming years of government interest. Instead of total numbers, it'll be more broken down, so I'll try to get it out of my mouth. A respectable president. A representative of the United States Group on the budget board, huh? 6th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! This has been reviewed by our representative, the president of the Party, the Árni Páll G. Árnason, as well as other members of Parliaments who have gone into some of these details and have made publicity. That's what I want to do, too. This, for example, has been reminded that the government during the last term, the one formed after the election in 2009, received a government fund of over 200 billion in a sanctimoniously calculated here that could approach 300 billion at current prices. It was the big picture that faced the government that had to undergo bloody cuts. Many of this was accepted with a bad taste in the mouth, but it was necessary, and that is why you always had that hope, and it was the policy of the last government, that when the interests of government and national interests would be improved, some of it would be returned. It has been noted that there is nothing that can be seen from this concierge of government policy on how to handle the pensions of the elderly and the desperate. They asked about it earlier, and they talked about what the State, the state's wealth, and we all really owe to go back, and then people get some of the things they lost. This I mention as one joint that cannot be found in this schedule exactly what to do. Perhaps it is because of the factors that are snuck in or put in a few lines that the quality of uncertainty is so high in the preparation of collective agreements. The present government does not improve its inactivity and reckless declarations of various ministers into the pitiable debate, which is increasing each day of the great and serious situation. That responsibility will be directed directly to the highest degree. Government and responsibility that this opportunity has not been used for further consultation with the unions of the country in an effort to reach treaties without the expected strike. Of course, there is no basis for judging that in this program, there is among other things talk about selling the share of the State in the Lands Bank. It must have been made a skeleton of this synonym and even printed when a convention party convention of the candidates was conducted earlier in this month, with the forwarding of the move to conclude that the Lands Bank was not to be sold. That's why it's very strange that it's in here. What should be done about that? Should it be just a matter of waiting for a financial committee to change this budget, considering that the National Bank will not be sold if the policy of the advance party is placed on top? During the short time we are going to discuss this council resolution, just ten minutes each, so I can come back for five minutes, I would like to make up the subject of an investment in 2016 estimated 47.3 billion. Maybe you can't quite use that number. I think it's better to use the numbers for 2017, 2018, and 2018, they're more accurate, an average of 31 billion in investments. There, for example, I would like to make a statement that with this government investment plan, I can't see that, in any way, there will be some conclusion that will begin the building of a land hospital as soon as possible. True, there was an acronym at a fund building where a fund was inserted to complete the treatment core and started with a hospital hotel building, but I can't see in any way that the investment plans there are enough to begin the treatment core. I'm really sorry about that. It is discussed in one place in this program that funding is provided to complete the hospital building and complete design of the land hospital's treatment core. It's just not enough, and I was shocked to see it. It shows that a national budget program that is very different from the government's talking about during World War II, even starting a project. The person standing and speaking is a great fighter for the first thing that must be built. All I see then is that men must invent other ways, and even bring in a new Senate case to give in their behalf. Similarly, I would like to discuss the methods of transportation that are also discussed. As we have seen, the government will hit a new Iceland record in a coming transport programme, if it will ever be submitted to the council, Iceland record in doing virtually nothing about transport in the coming years. This program discusses what happens when specific works are completed and then it is to be remembered that the project was determined by the last government and started in its time, as it were in the southern part of the West or the North Sea tunnel to be taken into account by two examples. When they're done, there's room to do something. Given the conditions in the road system and at the needs of very many places, as well as in the capital area in the country, this is not enough. That's why listening to the highest part is remarkable. Minister of state in response to queries, including from me a week or ten days ago, simply saying to our senators that we can help with the treatment of a transport program at the council to raise money to come into this important party. It tells me that in the transport program, which is expected to have been approved in the administration categories, and hopefully it will be distributed here as soon as it turns out to be the right thing for my suspicion, that almost no money is provided for transportation, and that there will be little or nothing done in the next few years apart from a few microbubbles, as it were. There's also a very serious section on housing, but I don't have time to discuss it, at least. Not at this time, but at what. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir here showed what they say in one place and what they say in another place, that if anything happens in terms of government, e.g. Because of collective agreements, the arrangements for housing fall out as presented here. That's what we're facing right now, the highest. Social Affairs Ministers have been given over to get their prime bills evaluated in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and not submitted to the General, so once again there is riches, now on the two-year anniversary of the current government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u31	Mr. President. I allow myself to give a second talk, even though perhaps my point could have been as relevant in the past for President's conference board. I'm gonna keep this as short as I possibly can. I just wanted to say that, according to the council, this document should appear, and a financial committee can consult with committees on details of the proposal. I know this proposal is made here for the first time. One chapter refers to a budget, and it is not an enormous amount of material, on the contrary, very superficial. The budget may not have gone down, I realize that, but it is hardly a matter of unique language groups in this suit except in some places with very vague expressions. So I believe it is necessary for the committees to receive this document and be able to look for better information about the challenges they face if it is approved like this. As I would like to refer to the 1st. On the budget bill, there's an agreement on a set order. The Ministers show up here, the secretary of finance in the first day, the members of the budget, and the second day of the discussion meet with other ministers. It is a scheduled part of the talk, but it is very clear that it is possible to contact stewards and ask them questions. In fact, time in welfare matters was too short. There were many questions that could not be asked, as well as adjustments, so the committees do not get the information. There was a comment that I as chairman of a welfare committee would always take the bill into consideration on a well - being committee, not that we should give comments to a financial committee, but only to allow members of the Committee to ask for financial suggestions for this important matter party. This needs to be fixed in the assembly so that there are no barriers to our having specific information. However, we should give a review of this matter to the budget board. I'll take it easy, and we'll have to get better information. They don't come out here. I'd appreciate it if the president sought out the next program, which will be submitted no later than April 1, 2016, that the councils will be given time to discuss this with members of Parliament on the box for their seminars. I think it would be closer to what was set up when it was decided that such a plan should be submitted and that the budget would be improved, and members of the Parliament will also be more aware of what really is in a program like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u32	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill to legalize the change in rent. In September 2013, I appointed a project management on the future housing arrangements in line with Congress resolution of measures due to domestic debt problems. The Project Management Board returned to me with a report in May 2014, but among the suggestions made by the Project Management Board was that rent law be reviewed with the aim of building rents and strengthening landlords and tenants, and that the proposals of a team of cooperation on the future housing would be guided. I now recommend a bill to legalize rent changes, No. 36/1994. The bill was conducted by a comment on the project management and a team on the future housing arrangements presented in the above report of a project management report from May 2014. In addition, comments from various sources were considered related to the work of a meeting group on housing policies resulting in a report to the Ministry of Health in April 2012. The bill also referred to comments received from the Fire Department, but it seems that burning defenses are rather lacking in rent - house housing than in a house where a owner lives himself. By then the bill was sent by a partner of construction agents, a partner of legal tenants, consumer agencies, and the Association of tenants in Iceland. They were carefully reviewing the comments received from sources and taking into account what could be done, although it is clear that not all of them were possible to do. The primary objective of the bill is to increase the legal security of tenants, including the renting of an apartment building to certain groups, such as students, elderly and/or desperate ones, at the same time as the importance of free contracts between landlords and tenants. However, rent law is designed to establish that contract a specific frame. A respectable president. In order to increase the legal security of tenants, I feel that it is very important to give a general minimum of the rent rights - as stated in 3 mg. 2.g. The law and the authority to depart from other inconsistencies of the law when renting houses to certain groups, such as students, the elderly, and the desperate - will be removed. In particular, I refer to rent law as having minimum rights to law for the tenants of an apartment building and, in the same way, a maximum duty. The law thus assumes that rent - house rights will not be sullied or that their duties will be increased by special arrangements in a contract with landlords. This allows only a deal of increased rights and less commitment to tens of an apartment building than is stated in the law. So it is a principle of tenure that the laws of the law are indiscriminate as to renting houses. However, since 1994 it has been permitted to deviate from any of the laws of the law in the case of renting houses to certain groups, including students, elderly, and desperate ones, for as long as specific circumstances require an alternative order but the law dictates for the particular nature or purpose of the operation. While comments to the bill are made in terms of differences in the uninvolvedness of the law, rent law cannot be overlooked to provide no further conditions that must be met in order to deviate from the minimum rights of tenants. It has not provided a further understanding of the specific circumstances that may require disfellowshipping from the laws of the law; nor has it provided further insight into the nature or purpose of the respective activities to justify such an aberration. Is it also true to bear in mind that the groups included are not entirely included in the arrangement but refer to the rent of an apartment house to certain groups, such as students, the elderly, or the desperate? Is it clear, then, that this is a very open authority to negotiate the inferior rights or the more duties of renting an apartment house? In this regard I also think it is proper to bear in mind that the requested warrant is not restricted to variations from the individual rights of rent law. Rather, it allows to be ousted from any law without any distinction being made there. I find this situation disturbing, but I can't see the evidence to allow such vast responsence from the minimum rights of students, elderly and desperate individuals or other comparable groups of rent law is intended to secure them by renting houses. So it is, in fact, placed in the hands of a single landlord, to recite one side by law, and even to the point that the law actually applies only to a small extent in which the contributions have become so broad. I realize, however, that of the terms of the bill, this law has received the greatest criticism from the fact that this bill was submitted here at the General Assembly, without the fact that the importance of this bill may have to the owners. The voice of a landlord has been heard unafraid, even so far as to claim that the bill as a whole is handy without further support. True, there may be reason to allow an occasional variation in the specific requirements of the law when perfunctory reasons are considered to justify such anomalies. I believe, however, that they need to know exactly what situations require a deviation from the minimum rights protection by the law and from the rules of rent law. If it is deemed necessary to allow an isolated variation from the specific requirements of the law, I believe it would be normal to legalize specific forms from the law's specific requirements. I also believe that there is reason to consider whether the law allows further information on how to implement treaties that are removed from the law of rent. For example, there is something that has been based on the current probationary rights to compromise the law's minimum notice, and then the agreement that the notice is in certain cases just one month. It should be noted that this is not the case with the violation of rent agreements due to the preliminaries'tenures on their contract duties, of course, that other views apply. I believe the General will have to decide whether these abnormalities are justifiable and based on objective views, although it is clear that they can prove very burdensome to the owners. It must be our goal, all of us, to ensure maximum rights protection for tenants when it comes to housing security without regard to the social situation of the tenants. Hence, we must ask ourselves: " Is other rules justified for students, for older ones and for desperate ones, and for even more groups of rent - house owners when it comes to minimum deadlines, allowing contracts to be dismissed to those in charge with only one month in advance, even though they have in no way violated their obligations according to a contract? I emphasize that this is only one of the many cases in which the minimum legal protection of the law has been deemed based on current 3 mg. 2.g. A rent. So I strongly emphasize that there will be a careful examination of whether and when it can be considered justifiable to deviate from the minimum rights of rent law for individual tenants. I'd also like to reiterate my opinion here, more fully, to establish a special law if necessary as a guarantee of minimum rights protection for all tenants, including the right protection of individual groups, such as students, the elderly, and the desperate, rather than the general access rights, such as those proposed here to be cut off. We here at the General Assembly must shoulder the responsibility of ensuring all tenants of an apartment building, including the groups I have mentioned, students, elderly, and microchip, a set of minimum rights to the law of housing. Of course, I am willing to cooperate on these matters and already have the Department's personnel found with the representatives of the larger tenants who have taken advantage of a release. A respectable president. This bill also aims to provide more specific instructions than before for how renters and tenants should be treated in time for a contract. It is suggested that the law allows people to agree that written messages will be sent electronically, although many people use e - mails to communicate with one another. However, it is still assumed that the messages that may have significant consequences for the data operators, such as a report of a contract break or a notification of the sale of the rented home, will be sent in a reliable way as the recipient is expected to receive a receipt, such as due mail. This does not change, however, that there may be an event in which the recipient is not reached despite true attempts. Therefore, as a result of assuming that messages were sent out within the recommended time frame, they would have the significance and the right effect to have, even if it were to come back, too late, or not to the recipient at all. The bill also suggests the implementation of a set of fire protection regulations. As I mentioned earlier, burning defenses in rented homes tend to be lacking, but in the case of burning protection in homes where owners themselves keep homes. Therefore, it is suggested that adequate burn prevention, under the burn prevention laws, be one of the conditions required in terms of rent care so that the condition will be deemed adequate during the initial period of rent delivery. It is also assumed that landlords will need to maintain burn prevention so that they are in good condition during rent time. Since there seems to be a misunderstanding in this regard, I would like to state that there is no new or increased demand to burn in a rented house. Of the 23rd floor. Marketing Authorisation Holder on burn prevention means that the owner of the fortress is responsible for fulfilling the requirements for burn prevention set out in the laws and regulations and for the use of burns, taking into account the activities being carried out in the centre or on the property at any given time. So it is not to be paid more than when resting under any other law in this regard but only to emphasize the importance of burning prevention in the delivery of a rented house, the important safety issues to be in all of the land's housing to protect them in the event that fires. - It was truly evident in my own eyes how important it was that fireproofs were in order for my home when it was started just before Christmas last year. Then it is suggested that the resources that the tenant can handle the landlord's condition, when rent - room status is considered insufficient, according to its planned use, at the beginning of rent time and later in the period of rent, following the failure of tenants to be maintained, be uniform. Although the consequences for tenants may be expected to be the same in both cases, or at least comparable, for example, there are stricter conditions, according to current rent laws, for the violation of the tenant due to neglect of maintenance than for failure at the beginning of rent period. In addition, the bill seeks to make insurance more sure of what a landlord can demand. Experience has shown that certain misunderstandings seem to have been on the basis of presupply rent, and many viewed it as a guarantee for the right hold of a contract. Thus tenants have often paid their rent all the time of the contract and had to demand the landlord to reimburse an advance as if it were insurance money. Also, tenants believe that they are free to release rent pay for a month during the contract, as there is an advance payment. In view of this, a change is proposed that only insurance is permitted, not in advance, but that of rent. At the same time, it is suggested that there be a moderate measure in this so that a landlord can make a maximum request for a four - month rent payment. This may be a substantial amount of money, considering the general financial circumstances of the local worker. Furthermore, it is suggested that the landlord not make a claim on bail, so it should be returned to a tenant within a month from the end of rent period instead of two months. It will be estimated that a month is sufficient for a landlord to assess the condition of the rented home at the same time and that a tenant will be able to afford the deposit even to pay bail on other lease agreements, to buy on farm rights, or as a payment on the purchase of apartment housing. It is then suggested that bail in the possession of a landlord be guaranteed, but instead it is proposed to carry interest under the terms of interest and insurance paid for payday. Finally, it is emphasized that bail is specialized in the possession of a tenant on a credit account in a recognized financial firm and is further suggested that the deposit of the bond money be banned during the period, as it is not owned by a landlord, but it is intended to provide bail by half a tenant during the contract period. The bill also suggests that there will be a distinction between the length of notice when renting a hired person and a professional tenant - renting agency. The goal is to promote non-term contracts that can result in long - term rent rent. It is suggested that the rule of the law be removed that a period of notice on the landlord is one year when a tenant has rented an apartment for more than five years. Has it been a burden for individuals and helped them to make several temporary contracts rather than non-interrupted contracts to avoid the proposed conditions. However, there are other viewpoints that apply to communities that rent out houses for jobs and that are likely to provide security for people in housing. Therefore, it is suggested that an appointment on their part be 12 months if an apartment was rented more than one year. The change is aimed at promoting increased tenets in rent markets and, especially, increasing the security of those renting apartment houses by professional tenants. It is scheduled for rooms, storage showers, and such shelters to be replaced for three months. Clearly, individuals are keeping homes in rooms, and it seems a bit difficult to expect individuals to make room - or apartment space - available for one month. The bill also reviews the role of a local construction representative, who has played a significant role in the implementation of the evaluations and assessments of rent declines as well as assessments of the need for repairs and costs. It is suggested that the labour agreements agree on the recruiters who have the necessary expertise in engineering, technology or other special fields to manage housing assessments and assess rent declines and the need for repairs. However, if they disagree about the selection of the applicant, they are expected to be able to consult a building manager who will accept the job. In addition, it is suggested that the costs for the employment of the applicant be clearly determined. It is then suggested that a more detailed monitoring order be established, but effective monitoring of the worker's activities is important, based on official permission. Is it also to increase the confidence of the public in the services of tenants and thus increase the likelihood that renters will be consulted for help with the provision of rent houses and contracts? Since contracts are difficult to negotiate, it may be important to consult a professional in this area. Therefore, it is suggested that a secretary may give a reminder to a landlord and take away his permission to run a rented house temporarily or permanently at certain preconceived conditions. A respectable president. As we have traced here, there are many changes to the current tenures that I believe will be important to increase the security of tenants. It has to be said, as it is, that respect for the rights of tenants has not been common in this country, which has affected their security. For example, it has been natural for tenants to be rented to those who often have broken feet in this community to avoid such contracts from the minimum legal protection. Among other things, this lack of respect has led young people to lose their rent and to look for ways to secure themselves and their families the most important quality of life that comes from walking to their homes in a foreign land without necessarily affording them the means of making such an investment. So I believe it is necessary to change rent laws in a way that allows us to talk about a rented house as a real option when it comes to choosing someone who lives in a home. Is this bill, like the bill to correct the change in housing partners, an important factor in making such a choice real to people. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u33	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The social and housing minister's talk. First, I'd like to say that I think it's very positive that people's housing security is being increased in a rented market, but I'd like to point out that there's best housing security in the market, and I miss that, at the same time, we're dealing with the foundation and housing bill. So I want the highest. A minister will see if we can expect to get that bill into the council soon, so that we can discuss it together with the two primes that the Minister will recommend for today, on the other hand, on the change in rent law and on the change in housing partnerships. This is very important, and it is really even more urgent than this other fine thing. I'd like to ask two questions in addition to that question, on the other hand, about the bail money. In other words, it will be forbidden to take a prior rent, but it will be permitted and more specific rules on how to store such insurance money, which may take up to four months' rent. I'd like to ask a minister why it was decided to have it for four months. There are a lot of money that can be under there and why it has been assessed as necessary to have such a long time and whether it could not have been reduced to that period for three months or even two. Then I wanted to ask about my class. I agree that it doesn't mean the same about individuals and societies, but whether the 12-month notice is not even to be longer for tenants.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u34	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ingibjörg, live Ingadóttir for his counter-sponsored response. I agree with the senator that I had wished that I had been here today with four issues on the program facing the premises. However, they are still at financial and economic costs, and my employees are in daily contact with the Ministry of finance to provide information to those primary causes. These are important and large issues, and they have truly been reflected in the queries received from the Ministry of finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u35	V.E.G. President. Yeah, yeah. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir also called on the council to participate in calling on the Ministry of finance to get these matters in here. It's a strange situation, but it's unfortunate that they're not here at the same time or the case in there, the other waiting for the autumn. I repeat the question of bail, if it could not have been a shorter time. As for the extension of the notice deadline, I agree that it's different whether a tenant rents out a house or an individual and an estimated longer notice for tenants. I would have thought that he could be longer, but there are other ways of canceling contracts if tenants don't live up to their agreement. I just wanted to hear about it, about the bond money, how many months will be rented, and how much rent will be sold. Then I'd like to know because the report says about insurance money: ◯ I agree that when it comes to increasing the commitment of a landlord's landlord, it is also necessary to make sure that renting out a home is not too difficult to get rid of tenants who do not have contracts. But it seems to me it's not -- it just says that it's urgent and I'm not really able to see that it's making it easier with the bill. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Can a minister lead me into the right direction and enhance my understanding of this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u36	A respectable president. I thank you again for the questions. With these changes, the idea of having a four - month guarantee money, the reference from today's reference point of view to three months in terms of insurance money, and so is one month in advance, so it is actually talking about the same period. On the other hand, one of the current laws is that, in fact, you may actually have almost unlimited advance payment, so this is, in fact, a significant limitation. Then, about the deadline or the notice for the tenants, I'd like to encourage some. A senator who is chairman of the welfare committee should be very careful about the proper design. It's our proposal to turn on our tenants, and I think it's very interesting to go through with what I was talking about here, to cut away from the law of dissertation of 2 gr. and how it will come out and whether it is right to make specific arrangements in which they will be turned toward associates who are primarily on short - term rents, such as the one taking the lead. to students.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u37	A respectable president. It is good and blessed to improve the right of those in a rented home, but the problem is that they lack rent houses and that they lack money in the housing system. That is why it is only natural for a minister to be asked about the survival of the major bills. I'm asking a social minister: Has she given up on getting big housing bills out of the secretary of finance? It's a secretary of finance, not the Ministry that stands in the way of their payment. Is she just going to be embarrassed by a minister of finance on public level? And isn't the government really going to put any money on the premises during this spring council? Has the highest. Social Ministers give up on the summer council she preached? Has she changed her mind? Should we give up on the matter and perhaps try to take it back in the autumn without any more support than it has today? A respectable president. Is it not true that the Ministry of Social Affairs does not have the support of the government in order to gain financial support for the prime news stored in the Ministry of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for the query. In some respects, she reflected a talk from each of us. paritaprevir Kristján Möller here at the council, and I listened too. If something is, perhaps I'm just a little more worried that it seems that some of the Group members of the United States have given up hope that these bills will appear here. This minister has certainly not given up on this, and we are, as indicated in my answer to an answer. Ingadóttir Ingibjörg's time to answer questions from the Ministry of finance. It is working hard to calculate the cost effect of these issues. But they are big. They're complicated, and I'm ready to stay here as long as it takes, and I hope it's the same thing about then. A senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u39	A respectable president. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has said about the activities of Social Affairs that they are both incomprehensible and intolerable. It has to be said in the sense that the social minister's criticism has turned over to the head of the Ministry of finance, for it knows who does not have the responsibility of the head of the Ministry of State that the case is stuck there. It is the political decision of Bjarni son of Benediktsson, president of the Independence Party, that the matter is not out of the Ministry. The Minister of Social Affairs is to direct his words to Bjarni son of Benediktsson, not to the officials of the Ministry of finance on this matter. And why are things stuck with the secretary of finance? That is because the government, including the forward party, has made no decisions about any financial resources in this suit. There is no budget for 2015 to be found for these prime agents of the Minister. As a result, the Minister of Social Affairs has not guaranteed the funds she claims to be willing to do. We were just here discussing the long - term plan of financial funds. Also, it does not see large sums of money in stocks and rented housing, not for the year, not for the year next year, nor for the next year. So I ask the highest. Minister of Social Affairs: Where's the money, the highest? Minister? Where's the money? Because the words are of little value and the bills are of little value if the minister does not have the money needed to improve housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u40	A respectable president. I reiterate what I said that these changes are being worked hard. These are big and important issues. On the other hand, there is a natural large and important subject on the program of this council, which is important for the Congress to be a success. The object of what? A senator surprised me because he claimed that it was customary for a minister in the Ministry of finance to stop a matter from eating expenses. It may have been customary during the last term, but it was the highest. The minister of finance has repeatedly been working on this matter. We have indeed seen it in the Ministry of Health with the queries we have received and have been responding to our best abilities and will naturally put forth effort to ensure that the bill can act as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u41	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the changes in rents. This is a major bill in one of 40 articles, and it is suggested to increase the security and rights of tenants in a tenet, which should be welcomed. This was at the people of the labor - farm system, which was deposed by the forward and independent groups just prior to the turn of the century. It was a special property system with extended interest, and this is the way laid down in Icelandic housing, that the special policy is the policy to be maintained in but by social quality. Sadly, although this was a fault, it was a system shut down, especially since it had been built beyond the need in some area, and it caused a measure of problems within the system, but to the point of serving its purpose very well. At that time, there was a suggestion to increase rent - house money, social housing, where interest was paid, i.e. They should not be greater than 3.5%, and the government would pay the difference between them and markets. On the other hand, more rents were to be made to the general renter, but without any serious commitments to the borrowers. Not a real public market, since these same persons sold their assets when 90 percent of the loans came along and the real real estate market actually got out of control. In effect, by the entrance of a camp loan fund, there was a policy of increasing the share of tenures at an Icelandic tenet, and I think this trend is successful. Not only is it unnatural for those with limited financial resources to shoulder the burden of loans resulting from housing investments but it is good for younger people and for others who want to be adaptable to a housing market not to have to invest in housing. However, it must be ensured that with a growing tenet, the security of those living there is secure. The union led to work during the last terms of housing and stressed a public rent and provided a number of suggestions on this subject. Then they stayed a little farther ahead. A certain basis for developing such a system is that the foundation of a tenet is socially responsible communities, which are not profit-employed and that they prefer to develop infrastructure in order to ensure lower rents and then the public can receive a certain means of distribution in them or a share of property in return. Also, housing reforms will be provided so that people in rented areas, which in turn would have interest if they had a home, would have similar support for the cost of housing. V.E.G. The social and housing minister continued this work, and although we feel that many were able to do quite well, her will is clear in these matters and the two issues that are presented on the schedule today are proof of this. Of course, we miss the matter of housing and building support, and it's true that there's a number of problems that are dependent on discussing changes in housing markets without having to be there, because that's the big spending bill, that's the bill that creates the box around the budget that needs to enter the seminary to ensure security. It is indeed a major economic problem, as we have tried in recent years, but it is also a basic business for the country's home, and it will not be to come unless money is costed. That's just the way it is. It is in my mind that money is easy to give up, for it is the basis for all well - being to be safe in housing. On the welfare committee, we are well prepared to handle this assignment. Next week, the committee is namedavika, and we have suggested that we be prepared to call someone when the case has been measured. We'll try to talk as much as possible as possible as possible that next week, but then we'll send out the case as soon as possible and, of course, we'll have to wait for all the reviews to come in and stuff. Then we need to ask ourselves, " How will I handle these matters if there's no money involved? ' I'd like to talk to you here for a few parts of the bill, which is, as I said, quite physical. The objective is to ensure the safety of people as far as possible. I'd like to point out that it will be done primarily by an extra supply of long - term housing in tenants. I mean, when I talk about tenants, I mean, as I said before, social responsible nonprofit societies, although no one here intends to cut off the job freedoms of those partners who want to rent out at the public market, but they don't have to enjoy special favors on the part of public society. I'm going through this directly from the report, and it's first pointed out that this is an exception, which, like the highest. A minister went over, took the lead in renting people in social facilities, whether they are students, cripples, or people for some reason that because of low incomes, they cannot provide security. Such organizations have expressed a measure of concern. Of course, as members of the Committee, we will listen to their viewpoints. I was heard in a case of the highest order. Ministers that there were already proposals to make some changes without compromising the purpose of the law, which is to increase the security of the people. Of course, we on the committee will try to resolve this as best will be, so that all who agree can remain content. This will be about fire safety, not changing, but that a landlord's obligation to ensure that fire safety is in order. It is also increasing the right of tenants to break down if the lack of maintenance is maintained by the landlord's side, which is considered to be rules from the North countries. Then we come to the bond money. This is a way to prevent presupposed rent, but it may require bail. I think setting a clearer frame around this is an improvement. However, the natural requirement for bail can be considered, and that is one of the things the committee will review. I'm not going to publish large statements about it here, but it's clear that it's caused significant problems for certain groups when people have to make large contributions ahead of time. Thus, it is a very important thing not only to guarantee the landlord who owns the house but also to be the main focus, to be able to get into a home even if it is not to be saved to a limited extent. It adds that it is urgent to see which avenues are able to speed up transportation in situations where a tenant does not have a contract and refuses to leave the rented home following a break. I could not quickly see that this was really being suggested in the bill, and that is something the committee might consider in some way. I think first and foremost, it is important that as we may feel that raising rent payments is more important to renters, but it is also guaranteed that landlords can protect themselves in the best way, it is certainly a matter of duty rather than some human emergency situation. Then there are, like I said, a lot of things about the bond money and possession, and I think that's all there is to improve. This makes a difference as to whether it is an individual who is renting out homes or businesses who do so for a job. You're welcome. The question is, Should the period of resignation be further extended if it is due to a professional organisation, whether or not to add more responsibilities? But I also miss it, because it is probably a matter of caring more for them, that at the same time offer suggestions that had been presented on my partner's business environment to make it more comfortable. Also, it is not to provide tax freedom on one apartment of individuals, it would be good to include it as well as to increase financial support for tenants. It's unfortunate to have this thing in focus. This will also discuss the applicant's efforts to help them make it easier for renters and landlords to agree on how they are handled and how to deal with them. More clearly, tenants are being monitored, but there have been repeated concerns, especially from the Neighbour Association, on rent - rent surveillance. Not only is there a lack of information on the lease because it is not always safe to report contracts; however, it is a secretary - general surveillance check. You may need to put extra pressure on the fact that there is more monitoring on this market. That is one of the things we will also consider on the welfare committee. I'd like to finally reiterate, in addition to the limitations I've been talking about, that here is a lack of the big budget bill that is primarily useful to tenants, but also encourages an increase in the supply of stock markets. That's what I miss, but otherwise I'd like to welcome the attitude of the bill. I have already considered factors that I believe the committee should take a closer look and then have made comments from outside parties that we will review and take sides. But I think it was time to present a bill as this and it's important to explain the rules of the layout and to ensure the safety of renters as well as the responsibilities and rights of landlords.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u42	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður, Igveveld the Ingibjörg of Ingadóttir for her speech. I have to agree with what. A senator is disappointed that the big prime products announced in the Constitution and that the market has not yet arrived and that they are still on cost assessment. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does it count the odds of who we are in the calendar that this matter will appear during the current council? If they do not appear, will this affect the situation we address today, in view of the fact that these four cases have generally been referred to as a single cycle, so to speak? Can we handle these two matters without having seen the other bills and not knowing what it says? Are we taking some of the matter into account without having the overall picture? I'd like to hear a thought. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u43	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir's Daughter's Question. There is not much time left for this council, but I have not given up hope for this matter. But it seems to be deep, and there seems to be political reasons for the delay, i.e. that it simply isn't the only thing about raising money from a government fund to rent. I believe that if it does, a new assembly will not be set up until September of the fall, so that will allow sufficient time for the work to be done. There are various ways to ensure that these issues will be established at the council without any council being held here for the rest of the summer. It is mainly the work of the Committee that needs to be conducted and assessments of the impact of the bill and that. After all the overcoming that seems to have been done in the Ministry of Economics, it should be quite helpful when it comes in here. If the safety of the tenants should be guaranteed in this way as high as possible. A minister will naturally want to consider that there is only a greater supply of security, since this lack of housing. These bills do not increase the supply of housing. Is it on the contrary, so that if the funds are not involved, people will prevent them from renting out their homes and will further reduce the safety of tenants? This may be what needs to be done on a welfare committee. If we view the matter as being acceptable, they may not be entirely under the name of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Hv. A senator noted that when these bills come from the Ministry of finance to the Generals, they will be quite successful. I'd like to ask you what. A senator in the middle of a project and a project on primarys. Counts 'em out. A senator acceptable that, at first after the appearance of a rent-in bill, they are calling the tenants to the case that rented certain groups and had a certain law-enforcement form, i.e. 3 mg 2. ... whichis now to be removed, i.e. Exactly the person to whom the article ends? These are the very societies that rent groups that are in a more delicate position in rent - rent markets, in poorer and academic groups. Is it acceptable to work at the highest level? Ministers now call them to the table? Wouldn't this have to be done sooner and some strategia would have had to lie down if there was to change anything other than just put out the law's monasteries?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u45	V.E.G. President. Yes, it's natural that these parties have not been contacted, that's what I have to say. However, I would like to stress that this is not so that interest stakeholders should write legal bills. Of course, it is shocking that these parties were not informed or sought out their views. I'd like to point out, though, that already the highest. The minister realized that this had gone so badly, she immediately called them, and I understand that there is a search for a way to settle the point, although a minister's intent may be realized. I've also been sorry for the best. A minister has spoken of those who are concerned about this as merely to consider the interests of landlords rather than the tenants, but I would like to reimburse students' community services and social institutions as the most powerful tenants in the country that the State trust in in us to pay interest because of the loans of these communities. It is a society that we have put great trust in by means of financial funds and who play an extremely important part in community activities. They have made it very well, and they went through the collapse without any serious setbacks, although these communities still wait like other communities and housing partners after the cohesion corrected here and were to be met later by tenants and housing partners.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u46	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the changes in rents. I want to start by thanking the highest. Social and housing minister for a very detailed talk on the bill. I'd also like to start by saying that I was on the project for the future planning of housing matters appointed by the minister in September 2013; this committee gave its work and a thorough report in May 2014. The suggestions given in this topic are largely based on the factors and indications derived from the Commission. The task management was assigned to provide suggestions for a new housing system, including the aim of ensuring an active tenet and an effective social resources for those needing it. I'd like to take advantage of this area and thank you for the confidence I was shown to take place in this article, it was a valuable and enjoyable time. At the same time, I sit on the Senate welfare committee and this bill has been referred to until material activity. I believe that all committees agree to do the bill well and in harmony with the rules we have to follow and try to get it through the committee as fast and safely as possible. What a joy it is to hear a word at the right time! paritaprevir The Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir, chairman of the Committee, are the positive that guards her as she talks about the bill. I think we can all work together very well together. The bill is linked to other primarys involved in housing matters. Another is this afternoon's discussion, as well as the law on housing partnerships, and these bills greatly improve and contribute to increasing the rights of those in the tenet. As noted in the council's work today, two prime bills are still in financial cost, and they are related to the building up of tenants and mortgages. The importance of these bills within the council as soon as possible can be discussed so that we can have all the bills at the same time in the Senate welfare committee. Since these are elements that overlap in various ways, it would be very good to be able to do something about them at the same time. If we turn to the bill this issue, it's one of the primary stakes on the housing and housing security of tenants and is an important factor in improving the safety of those in the tenants, and it's a good thing. I'm just gonna take notes that follow the bill and grab down here and there, as far as I'm concerned with material and reason. The primary objective of the bill is to increase the legal security of tenants and make more firm in the relationship between tenants and landlords to avoid conflicts later. Emphasis on the fact that free contracts are between landlords and tenants, a written legal arrangement. For example, when renting houses are lacking, whether at the start of rent hours or later during rent hours, because of the neglect of tenants in the maintenance of the rented house, it is endeavored to coordinate the resources they can provide. This may be the case with a tenant who has a contract torn down if the U.S.A.'s insistence on improving the mistakes of tenant renters. In addition, changes in the assessment of the rented home should be made so that persons gather for the applicant instead of automatically consulting a local construction officer at the site of the facility. Specific comments on this requirement have been made by the construction associate, and this is a form of cross-cutting on the tip of the partner of the landlord's tenants. These are just tips that the committee will consider and see how the committee will deal with. One of the main elements of the bill is to increase the security of the tenant. It is very important to increase the rights of the tenants and those in the tenants have more security than before. We've seen, what we often talk about, that since the collapse of 2008, many have changed their thinking. You hear around you that many people talk about living in a rented market, especially if rent - rent rights were larger than they are, and the safety of tenants is more, and if it were long - term rent. That is why it is very important that we look to people for real choices and rights that are clear and relevant, how they should be. Let's get back to the bill. It aims to provide a clearer order than ever before for the handling of landlords and tenants over a period of rent contracts. It is suggested that the law allows people to agree that written messages will be sent electronically, although many people use e - mails to communicate with each other today. This must make matters much easier if there are issues related to contracting issues, that if there is a conflict, a written exchange can be made possible. The bill also stresses the compliant management of the tenants when the condition of a tenant is considered insufficient, based on planned use at the start of rent time and later during the rent period after the tenant has failed to perform maintenance, the consequences for tenants may be expected to be the same in both cases or at least comparable; a tenant, for example, has not been able to request a reduction in rent rent rents without maintenance, and the stricter's due to failure due to maintenance, but the lack of experience at the start of rent time. Under these conditions, the countries we often compare ourselves with are looking to, i.e. to the Northern countries, where there are similar rules on breaking contracts because of the inadequacy of rent houses and neglect of maintenance. In the bill this, therefore, an effort is made to make insurance more acceptable to them as a landlord may demand and make the change necessary only to demand insurance but not to pay advance rent. Let's talk about what. Today's members of Congress have been wondering if this time can be too long, which is a four - month period. I can agree that it is often these with a group that earns little money and may find it difficult to cope with many months of recovery. I consider this to be an improvement, though, but this is one of the points the committee will consider and evaluate after the reviews and arrivals. In these matters, it is reasonable that renters can limit their damage to four - month rent payments, taking into account that large amounts of money may be involved in the general financial situation of the local worker. At the same time, it is vital to consider the ways in which you can set aside transportation in a situation where a tenant does not handle contracts, for of course, you will always have to look at both sides, both rights and landlords. It also discusses cutting down the amount of time a landlord can pay on rent insurance. That's what we're talking about. A landlord has to return that deposit in a month. I think this is a great improvement because, often when individuals are leaving one rented house to another, they are often renting homes or buying property and even spending the money trapped in the landlord's house. So it's very good that it's not a long time, as shown in the bill, to be able to find out if it needs money or not. It is suggested that there be a distinction between the length of notice when it is an individual's renter and the case of a hired partner who is commercially renting out an apartment building. The objective is to contribute to the untimely period of contracts in order to contribute to long - term rent. It is important that we try to find resources to contribute to long - term rent, since this increases the safety of tenants in housing markets and has many positive effects. If we just watch children living in rented homes, on their social status, that they do not have to move from school to school all the time. It is happy that there are opportunities to work on long - term rents. A six - month notice on the part of a landlord continues to be expected in the case of a person renting out an apartment. I'm going to finish my case here, but it's supposed to be possible that in the work of the project management, the future structure of housing was a great deal of consultation with partners, tenants, unions, and unions, and a lot of parties on the proposals. I know that a great deal of consultation was also made with many relevant parties and interest groups when the bill itself was written and is well and well done. It's very important, because it gives us different perspectives and people's viewpoints, and it's really good. In this way, it is more likely that peace will be gained in the work being done. When this bill becomes the law, the legal security of the tenants will increase considerably. A law on them will become clearer, and it will be all for the better. I look forward to dealing with the bill and other home conditions on the Senate welfare committee and to believe that any member of the committee involved will be able to work well together. There seems to be a lot of harmony in the fact that we all want to head toward this direction with greater safety for tenants in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Eagledotir for her speech on the bill of a change in rent. One thing interests me very much, and I want to ask you why. A senator in. See page 18. 9 In comment we're going to the bill and we're reviewing that no. 1/142, as it is, on action due to domestic debt, was approved at the Council of June 28, 2013, or just after the administration of the current government. What I'm talking about is this timeline. On June 28, 2013, at the General Assembly of Congress, an arrangement was adopted to hide a social and housing minister ordering a project on a future housing plan. Hv. A senator described her as being a member of that group. Then, on September 9, 2013, the task management will produce. They are listed and counted as 32 stakeholders with the task management. It comes back on May 6, 2014, and now we're here, April 28, 2015, and it's actually going to be a little bill. That is relatively little, though, if they handle certain matters. The Ministry's report shows that this has no effect on the financial supply of a trust fund. My question to why. Is this time frame so urgent, adjustments to the lavender system, acceptable that this work takes two years and out of it is the source of this bill we're supposed to complete during the 15th Day of Congress?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u48	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller for the counter-sponsor. He asks mainly to the time frame. You're right to the highest. The social and housing minister appointed a team or project management of the future budget for housing in September 2013, but the project administration produced a result of 6 May 2014. Hv. A senator speaks of a small bill, and it is a long time since we returned. I want to answer this, so I think it's done very well during the last term that there was a lot of work on the project and reports on the housing market and its improvements. Those who served in the Ministry then know well that this is a complicated case that takes time. It was best to see that during the last term, there was a very large, impressive work to be done that included some of those suggestions, but there were no bills in the four years. So I think that just says what needs to be said. It's a big group of paintings. Many people come to this with different visions. Since these suggestions were widely discussed, it is only natural to have taken all this time, even though I would have liked to see it sooner.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u49	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the answer as far as it goes, it goes over to the last term, which was a very special term in Iceland's history, economic crisis, bank collapse, and all that, but much was now done in the housing period. But I noticed. A senator criticizes the lateness of this event. It's almost one year, 11 months, since the project administration returned until this bill comes out. Yes, there are a lot of articles, but I don't think it took a year to write the bill. A respectable president. My next question to what? The senator is -- what? A senator has often come up here for the job of the council and discussed the hierarchical correction, which was actually a small mouse in comparison with what was promised. Three hundred billion were promised, but a small mouse was born, which became 80 billion, but surely it is to be thanked. It's better than nothing, but far from what the candidates promised. It was also said that the ossuary correction would not reach roommates and others, but it was announced that head -liner correction to rent - men, student social services, social facilities, and the rent system would come later. That's why it's my second question. Councilman: When does the basic correction for tenants come?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u50	V.E.G. President. I want to start again with thanking you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller for the counter-sponsor. The reason I referred to my last term was because I was trying to paint a certain picture because it's a complicated group of paintings. Of course, things were done, as I said in my resistance. Much good work was done in the Ministry of Health for housing matters, but there were no proposals or bills in the market. I know it was a big, difficult task that was being done. Yeah, it's been a year since the project management returned, but I'm glad these bills have come out. With regard to the primary correction, 80 billion by direct correction, 70 billion by the special delivery system. It was 150 billion. Now it's the bill on this subject, the bill for a change in rent law, one bill of four. We've been hearing of hosts working at housing partners and they describe a lot of satisfaction, a group of housing partners because of the bill for housing partners, and they believe that those who have the means to do this can use the resources involved in refinishing their communities and making their own corrections. Besides, it's happening, which, of course, I hope we'll succeed, and we agree on that, me and the other. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, we hope that housing will get out of cost estimates, resulting in a huge increase in support of tenants. I hope there's something wrong with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u51	Mr. President. I am always happy when others are upset. Senators are happy. That's why I'm happy with what I did. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir for how well this bill goes on to her. I will in no way diminish the importance of this, but yet I suggest that not all were as happy with the bill. I remember that tenants of the Conspiracy had very strong comments, actually so strongly, that when the bill came up, they declared that they had sent a challenge to the minister that it was better to be placed in the drawer than to be seen. V.E.G. However, a minister has made it clear that she realizes that bait is on the bill and has promised her means to change it. Hv. A senator who gave an excellent report for his attitude and expressed his joy over the bill also stated that this was just one of four primes. Then I'd like to ask if there's some kind of joy in her with a group that's stopped the most important bill, the bill that's kept what we've all been waiting for, and not just us, but all the people who have to endure the law of barbarism that can be said to figure out at least the ideal tenants at the market right now. That's why I'd like to ask. A senator: How does she feel about this behavior of the Independence Party, which literally by hand throws the bill out of the government, declaring the mistrust in the calculations of the highest. Minister of Social Affairs, and make a fancy concert on the Ministry case, how does she feel about this? I don't think she can be very happy with the team.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u52	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for the answer. Yes, I am very happy that this bill has been released as well as the bill on housing law. I'd like to see the bills that are about to turn to stocks for nonprofit housing partners, that they come out, and I'd also like to see a bill that is relevant to housing. It's a very important matter for all members, that I believe, regardless of categories, these bills will come as soon as possible to sign this council. How important it is, then, that we all help them to push in these bills, since they have been a really good time for cost evaluations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u53	Mr. President. As a passionate politician, I often allow my emotions to dominate me. I was asking about feelings. Senator. How does she feel about the independent group that has, in effect, locked down the most important bill? Hv. A senator knows this as well as I do that the two primes as ever. In terms of the benefits that we hope to find in the big bill, at least one of them, a social minister has almost broken out between the team's teeth. This is what everybody's waiting for. As a result of the way the facility works, it has probably never been so difficult for people to get under it. We know that today's situation is that low-payers, who have both hard work to do, can get through payment, and some of it can't be done through. This is a situation that has never existed. She wasn't upstairs when I was young and had to start life or some others here in this room. This is what matters. V.E.G. Department of Social Affairs has issued large statements on this. The media's been hitting their chests. It's only natural that I come here as a representative of the voters and inside the highest degree. Ministers by when and when these bills will appear. A senator gives a fine talk, so I ask her: " Is she expecting the bills to come at this council? I give her the advice, and the highest. Social Affairs, that if you're going to be successful with the Independence Party, because I've worked with him, in the case of social issues, it's not just enough to show teeth and growls, it's also necessary to bite. I don't feel that I have much to do with any of the senators at this party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u54	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for good advice, and even making use of them one day. He asked about feelings. Yes, the joy would be if we saw these bills come into the council in the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u55	What if they don't come?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u56	I really hope these bills come out because they are important people, and those in rent, really important. [[What are you going to do if they don't come?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u57	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss two of the world's top headquarters. The social and housing minister requested for the change in housing matters, and what we're discussing here today is a bill to correct the change in rents. I must declare disappointment that the big thing or the change is the highest. Ministers have proclaimed and have not arrived for housing matters, i.e. a bill to set up housing improvements, requiring changes in government housing support, and a bill to deal with housing practices that discuss reorganization of housing policies, the social role of the government, and the general housing loans, as can be read in a Senate paper submitted in the fall. Therefore, it is difficult or impossible to form an opinion of the overall impact of changes at most. A minister cares for himself in the most important matters of housing. The primary objective of the bill we're discussing today, i.e. a change in rent rents, is being made more firm in the relationship between landlords and tenants to avoid conflict and increase the security of tenants. Of course, there are good goals, but I wondered, " Is it likely that they will be reached with the bill? ' I'm gonna tap on a big one and pull out a few of the bill I think worth paying attention to and to the why. The well - being committee to whom this discussion will be followed should be considered in particular. First, I'd like to mention changes in the bill I consider to be positive and positive, but it's about burning protection. They are discussed in Article 9. and, as noted in comments, fire defenses seem to be more lacking in rented rooms than in homes owned by a owner himself. The bill contains the obligation that is already laid down on landlords under fire protection laws to ensure adequate burn prevention is in place. It is not yet being provided for landlords. Rather, it is underlined that the fire - control laws are being followed. That's what I think is very positive and a great improvement for tenants. The bill suggests that there will be a distinction between the length of notice between a person's rent period and the case with a hired partner who is on the job renting out residences. I think this is a lot of good stuff, of course, especially for the landlord. However, it must also be kept in mind that renters are not always large companies but, for some reason, ordinary people who need or want to rent out their apartments and their situation against unscrupulous tenants is difficult. It is not apparent that in the bill, the long or costly procedure may be taken by tenants to get such tenants out of the country, i.e. who refuse to leave the apartment because of debt or who have an expired contract. This is what I think is something the committee needs to look at and maybe a little more delicately. Besides, I have to say, I feel somewhat vague about what is meant by the expression "Umluel " which, as a professional tenant, is renting out an apartment building to the south. The highest plan. The minister of this expression also includes self - interest institutions that run some sort of social facility and have any activity around them, but do not engage in renting for profit? It may lead to the big issue of this bill, which is suggested in Article 3. 2.g. The current tenement law will be removed. It may not be too much, but it would have great consequences and, to me, bad consequences if it did not work out the same way. 3 mg. 2.g. A rent said, by permission of a president: Despite the terms of 1 mg, if an apartment home is to be rented to certain groups, such as students, elderly, or desperate. Due to the unique nature or purpose of the operation, it is permitted to deviate from the individual laws of the law by a contract. Notes with the bill that discuss consultations do not show that there have been consultations with those who rent the groups that are listed there, such as students' Social Services, renters of students and Empresses, the House Fund of the Micro-Lowing Alliance. And in fact, a minister of the past stated that at the bill's contract, there had been no consultation with them but that since then there has been an improvement and that a conversation is taking place now because of this impassion. That's good, though I might have wanted to see it sooner, but I want to commend the highest. Minister for associating with these people and for the fact that a conversation is now taking place. Before we go any further, I think it's right to inform them that, personally, I'm in the management of Empress, the House Fund of the Micro-Less Community, and I'd like it to be told from this chair so that if there's any doubt about any connection that might arise, this is made clear. Shortly after the bill was distributed, the chairman of Homeowners' Society, Sigurður the Helgi Kingdom of Guðjónsson, was severely interviewed in the April 2, issue of News magazine, 3 mg. 2.g. - I'm sorry, I'm sorry. There he claimed that using the bill, the lease was being reassigned to the 1994 system when existing laws were passed. These are big words, and I won't judge if they're true, but I think at least we should pay attention and see what it is in this bill that he thinks we're going back to the old time. However, special attention was given to the Chairman's claim that by canceling a law that separates rent to certain groups, the law was being cut off and destroyed rent operations, such as. Social status and Social Services and others. Some days later, representatives of the Society's Association Institute of Social Services and Social Services in Reykjavík became involved with the concern of the head of the Landlords Society. The societal community of students interprets the changes in preventing them from demanding that tenants also attend the university, which would lead to long waiting lists and bites on the groups assigned to the tenant company, i.e. students. [[Take it up: wrong.]] The response of the social network to the press's inquiry was the same, that the bill would upset their business. V.E.G. One minister spoke about in his background earlier that she thought this law was too open and that this was why it had to be taken out. I'm concerned that by turning the whole law out or removing it, like representatives of the student's Social Institute and Social Services and others have pointed out, the cutting off of a foundation from their operation, the need for this to be considered or just to cancel and rather go the way I felt it would be. Ministers suggest that in their case, perhaps there are other limits, or there are other ways to ensure the right of tenants. These are communities that rent people who are often in a very delicate financial position and may not have financial resources because of the ability to rent on a public market. Therefore, when we change rent laws, we must be careful not to throw the child out with the bath water and change the law in a way that the safety of the tenants is not guaranteed. I believe that for an organization such as Empress, the House Fund of the Micro-Community Association, or a student society that rents on social foundations, i.e. not with interest or profit, the interests of the tenant and the tenants together end up in the interests and interests of the tenant. V.E.G. President. From what I understand best. Minister, this change is not in harmony with the way the minister of the seminary has spoken so far, i.e. I believe the Minister has the interests of these tenants at his disposal. In fact, this is shown in a story published in the late October 20th, issue of this magazine. The social and housing minister of the head of the union for that purpose, with the permission of the President, to consider whether the union unions will create tenants without interest. So I don't understand any better than I do. Minister supports the idea that tenants should exist that rent people homes without interest. But such tenants have been extremely important in the Icelandic tenet, so it is very important to protect and strengthen them. [[The president calls.]] So I think it's a bad start of reexamination if it interrupts the standards of work for those who rent housing to groups that are at an economic rate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u58	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a bill of the highest order. A social and housing minister who is attracted to strengthening the legal status of rent people and is very kind to say. This has certainly been a long time in need of sharpening rent - rent rights. Likely, the greatest benefit for tenants is what attracts such notice and other rights in the bill, where there is an extended notice and increase in the rights of people in a tenet and in itself has long become urgent. I hope that a well-being committee will be able to work on the case, and then be given the information and viewpoints and develop it, improve and change, because support cannot be expressed in the current situation. It must make us think of the way the government is being dealt with for a while, because this is not the first time we see here things that are in its nature national conflict and should be a pretty great deal of solidarity at the council, have taken a very long time, a half term, two years in preparation before they come into this council, and then will not be better equipped than key members of the seminar have to go into public areas and make serious comments on the basics of the matter. Here comes the highest. Social and housing minister not as an example, unfortunately, but only another cabinet minister from the government, and a bill at 1st. in which he declares that the situation needs to be adjusted. This action must bring us to our attention during the council. It is not good that in two years it is not possible to work on a bill of legal reform for the tenants who are involved in all political groups, I think, and understanding in the community, and indeed for many operators on this market, such as the companies referred to before, the Social Services of students, social clubs and Emessies, the House of the Microbourg League, all the institutions and businesses that have the best interests of the tenants, even though they run such a home. It is bad that a bill cannot be taken away, so it is a relatively broad harmony when it comes in here and the case in a relatively final costume when the minister has had two full years to work on the case, a half term. It has to be said, as it is, that this is not good enough, especially when the comments are as decisive as those that have been made. We have a process in the Council of Directorates where the Ministry shall present its intentions in the market such as this for key stakeholders, stakeholders, organisations, companies, etc., shall give the opportunity to comment and opinion, to investigate and work out the indications so that these are the prime warnings that are next to being the ultimate legislation for review at the council. They should not appear after two years of work, so the minister needs to start asking the committee to fix what he himself was offering. I repeat, this is not bound to the highest level. Social and housing minister just keeps happening over and over again. It is not a good use at a time to handle matters in such a way. Here was an earlier reference to what has come from the Icelandic tenants Association, and I think that, of course, is the richest reason why. An committee is familiar with these views. I'm sorry, I haven't given any material advantage to the comments that the fine organization has made on the bill, but it's the group that we get mainly to listen for comments. It is the people's own organisation that is rented, living under these circumstances, and needing the rights that the Parliament of this legislation can guarantee. I know and trust that the committee will make a good impression on the comments that come from that organization. Then there are factors that include the matter. the right social agency to quit contracts if people no longer study. That's a lot of basic information for students to do business on apartments. Of course, they see in their hands what sort of dam it would be if students who have finished studying could stay in their apartments for some time, and this would lead to new students not to get in their homes because they did not get out. As soon as it is important to ensure that people's rights and even their own. Of course, the deadline is natural and reasonable, and there are other facilities that are discussed. The problem, however, with trying to secure rent rights is that they simply don't depend primarily on the fact that the minister or the government is going to deal with the fundamental problem that there is a shortage, that is simply a major shortage of this market, that there is a lack of housing, and that makes market prices, causing people to resent it. Sadly, in such a situation, tenants'rights are placed on board. We can seek to secure them as we can by legal means, but only by supporting and strengthening tenets and by supporting tenants can be done. It costs money. It is obvious from the issues presented here on the program today that it is just the issues that cost no money, because the issues that cost money, which actually include the will to act on a lease, are stuck at the Bjarni son of Benediktsson, in the Ministry of finance. It's not a budget problem. paritaprevir The Hauksdóttir or the government has decided to spend any money in order to improve the rent market or the housing market over our heads, which creates the difficult situation in which we live. The cost of building is at present perhaps 300 yards. K. on square meters. That means an 80 square feet apartment may cost in a building maybe 24 million. K. To cover business costs and interest costs because of the higher interest rates in the country than in neighboring countries, it may take 2 billion to survive the business. K. A year on rent income. That's up to 200 yards. K. per month. Simply put, the amount of money that is just high in the income that is available to many rentables, e.g. leave-employees, pensioners who don't have the rights in pension funds, those who are on the financial support of rural society, unemployment benefits, or those who have the lowest salary. There are, of course, the largest groups in the rented market. That is why these people will not be created to have any viable conditions in the rented market unless we use our common funds to relieve them of their propaganda. This can be done by means of strains, which requires money. At that time, construction costs are laid down in the first place so that rent prices can be kept lower for the future. This can be done by the local community offering a small amount of money or even nothing. Then it can be done by making the basic changes we proposed toward the end of the last terms and by my conviction that it is the only right way to support tenants, that tenants will be given the same support from the state's budget as we who have bought us a place to live. It is heartbreakingly unfair that those of us who have bought homes receive substantial interest benefits from a government fund and a vast quantity of such compensation, while those who have not managed through payment because they have had less income or less possessions than those who have been able to buy our own housing. It is a tremendous injustice that they receive much less housing support than the rest of us, that rent payments are much less than interest. Of course, that is not the way it should be. Of course, all Icelanders are entitled to the same housing support, whether renting homes or having it. If there should be any difference, he should be on the other side, that those who have to live with the unfair price in the tenet get more support from a government fund than the rest of us are fortunate to be in their own housing. The fact that interest rates are much higher than rents is indeed a fair upside-down, dignified president. Sadly, though it's good and must be done in the rent market to strengthen the tenants'position, the fact is that if they don't want to contribute funds to the resources needed on this market, they do not weigh too hard. Of course, it will be even more urgent when we introduce legal legislation on payment, for which new generations drive themselves to the point that because they don't have money in an apartment, they don't have money between their hands, they don't get through payments, so they don't get loans to buy housing and, as a result, have to look to this market where no new housing is being created. I'm calling for the government to handle this case and give it the necessary funds. This isn't the financial department's business. The officials do not need to be sent to eat some of their energy at the time of the Passover or the like. It's only politics, of course. It's about priorities, and that's why things aren't in here. And if they mean anything with their declarations about the need to do something in the housing affairs that now is never going to burn into a new generation trying to cover their heads, they have to put money on it. Unfortunately, we saw in our discussion of government financial matters earlier today no money on the way into this project, not in the current year, not next year, and also next year and also the next year; but, fortunately, there will have been an intermediary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u59	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar before the talk. I agree with him that we need a common fund to share in paying off the mortgage. I would also like to say that there is something contrary to the involvement of the government in support of housing costs is more important for those who have their home than for those in the tenet. I'd like to ask you what. A senator because he is a discerning man, and he knows a number of things about how the way was given. The social and housing minister, that she has encouraged the officers of a union who attended the ASI council to consider whether the union union unions are going to get fired without a profit plan, I would like to ask. A senator, if any, what good could he see about such things and what defect or danger could be in such a system? Is this something we should consider more than that? It was a whole new story to me when I read it, I just hadn't thought of it that way. Is this something a natural? Does a senator feel that there is reason to pause and consider?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u60	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I think that it may be positive that unions promote it, just as I think it's generally positive, that the unions try to work on a common project. Hv. In his talk, a senator mentioned earlier that she was under Empress'administration of the House Fund of the Scaring Community, a housing organization on the side of a desperate organization. We have many other examples of groups that have thus undergone action, whether by an older organization or by other groups to handle their housing issues. This has also been true of various classes. It does not solve the core problem, however, that money lacks to do so so so that people can live for expenses. The unions have no funds that they can use to accomplish this. It is simply the government that needs to bring in the money, and although the minister can point to the unions and encourage them to do things, it must and the government must provide the money needed to rent new housing. Each person sees that it doesn't work on the market grounds that may call rent around and over 200 you. K. in a month that is more than enough rentable. I think it's a good thing for the unions to run it, or a pension fund, if that's what it's about to be divided. For example, people have good experience in Germany, which now knows how to handle financial matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u61	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with what. A senator in that the government must bring in money and that it does not solve the problem that tenants' unions have to deal solely with the problem. Yet, I do believe that these communities are still very important and that without them the problem would certainly be much bigger than it is. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator into what we've talked about today, i.e. Death of 3 mg. 2.g. where access is cut down to those who rent out to special groups. That's what I'm talking about. A senator would agree that if we feel that the rights of tenants are necessary or that in some way we need to strengthen the position of such tenants, we must do something else in order to strengthen the position of such tenants rather than eliminate these unscrupulous ones from the law and thus make the business of these tenants even hopeless?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u62	A respectable president. I don't think it's difficult to answer that question, especially when there seems not to be a planned plan to do anything to promote the tenet, increase the number there of partners or stakeholders, put in it some kind of effort, that is simply that of the rent market that is on the basis of some strong social entity that is renting out to special groups, such as Brufun ◯ Bank of the Micro-Community Association, a Social Institute of students, Social Services in Reykjavík, and other people who are better built up through the years for thousands of rentings, which many families build their own security on the grounds. Of course, it must be absolutely basic to legalize all about the rent market that the activities and conditions of these associates are insured, for that is enough if you are not going to do anything about it, even if they are not going to destroy what is working on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u63	Madam President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in rents, and it seems that many things will be shown at first glance. In many ways, I am glad that the bill has appeared and agrees with positive things that have been said about some rights for the tenants. On the other hand, there have also been reports of criticism of the bill and criticism of various aspects of the media, but the welfare committee will discuss the matter and send out the comments and discuss the criticisms that are best presented on the bill. I'm going to start by discussing the criticism and then review what I think is to improve the legal environment of today, i.e. The rent law. There has been strong criticism from the head of the Landowner Society, who makes strong and serious comments to the bill and changes to the current law. With the permission of a president, I would like to quote his words, but he takes deep note of the year and says: ▪ Why fix things that are not broken? The whole bill is bad and amateur and will destroy all the major legal improvements since 1994. By then, rent markets had nearly been destroyed, and landlords would have left their home empty rather than rented it out. I don't believe that the purpose of this bill is to stop renting its house to owners. That is not something we want to see happen as a result. But such criticism must be considered when it comes from a person who has been in this business, as he put it, for many years. There's also been criticism from the carers of social administration who say that this is an upset society and that if the bill becomes a law no longer allowed to limit social services to the worst social and financial status of those who hope to be considered specifically. I understand the highest. A minister so she wants to look at the unique issues, which are also relevant to student social facilities. It has been found to be critical of not having short-term rent in student camps, since this activity is expected to rent for a short time so that there will be a renewal and those who are on the waiting list will have to meet the long wait list there. These are points to consider and consider, and no doubt there are other factors that will occur when the matter has been discussed and after the treatment of the welfare committee on the case, some adjustments are likely to be made. I can totally say things that come out here. It is often helpful to consider a review from the financial office that draws up the core of the matter. According to one estimate, there is work to increase the legal security of tenants and to establish a fixed commitment between landlords and landlords on a current contract for the duration of a contract. I think it's one of the things that's caused people to be very insecure at the rented market, because they don't have land under their feet for safety in the house they rent. Everyone, even in himself and in his environment, knows that people are drifting between the capital area and the children between schools. In families, living without long - term security in rented homes is a source of great anxiety and difficulty. As it is today, I agree that long - term security is needed for people's rent - rent safety so that they have confidence and a vision of how safe they can be in their rented house. It also suggests that adequate burn shielding is required. Something you would have thought was okay, but unfortunately, it has not proved true. You will be thinking of how very common it is for people to build a job building, a industrial house to rent, and often go very far on that subject, people even piled together, people who may be here to work for a limited time, a foreign labor force, which is offered a very unacceptable way to provide such a home without any safety. It's not meant to be tolerated and it's an ugly spot in our society. I hope for things such as ensuring the assessment of home housing and adequate burns to be added to the stitches of what sort of housing is approved as a tenure, that all of this would push to fail in the lease market to make such an offer. The bill also emphasizes that if renters have failed to maintain their rent, the results for the tenant may be similar or similar in both cases. That's what I think will do. There is a need for rent - rent housing, and more often than not, there is a dispute between renters and landlords over how far it should go to repair the rent. Then I'd like to mention that in the bill, a secretary's supervision is a requirement, such as that he can give a caberifier a reminder and disbarrent him from a permit to run a rented house, either temporarily or permanently. At first glance it seems more secure to me; yet, I have not completely seen how it is best to follow closely on the part of a minister, how it works, because it is a huge tenet in both the capital area and, of course, in the country as well. To say this, I like others who have spoken before mention that it was two years since that government took over and the housing business, and the rent was one of the issues that were supposed to be on the top of the government list. The council has not yet entered but this bill of rent law and bill available for housing communities. The big bills that were involved in building cab sprays and housing reforms are still in the Ministry of finance. True, this makes you worried that they won't get through. I think the advance team must be very concerned that this big case, which is a carrier in their policy or between parties, has not gone beyond this. Where are the beaches? I think the socialism of the Future Party should begin to sharpen the claws. There was something said about biting away, but I urge the advance party to sharpen the claws and to stop sending other consultations of candy children, to do something else, and to stand on the feet with the financial support of these large and large elements that are of enormous importance to the public and could be part of an overall status on collective contracts. I would also like to remind you that the lease market is very upset in many parts of the country. It is often forgotten in this discussion, as we focus on the challenges of rent and rent in the capital area, that in many countries there is a steady rise in various sectors. People who are interested in meeting places may not be ready to buy a home, even if it is possible. At times, sales may not be available, and there is no lease that inhibits construction and development in many parts of the country. I mention, for example, the western region where this blocks the structure of salmon farms and other activities that have been growing, such as the paracaric plant. The last news I received from Biluddal, the small village, was that housing would be impossible longer than any human would expect to be needed in the next months and lost. There are some places to transfer to in the country. Thus, for housing partners who are not profitlessly driven, not only are the capital areas important to the area but also the country's settlements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u64	V.E.G. President. I'd like to say a few words about the bill to the law here, about a change in rents, no. 36/1994, with subsequent changes. I want to continue with what I talked about in a short answer to what happened. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, i.e. the section on which you are using the title's comment on the currently selected bill. At the General Assembly, it was agreed to assign a social and housing minister to appoint a project on the future structure of a Senate resolution adopted on June 28, 2013. I drew attention to the fact that this was June 2013. Then, on September 9, 2013, the project management was set up that same year. On May 6, 2014, less than a year ago, the Project Commission offered a proposal to the minister with a report. And then, at the end of April, when there is a month left in the Senate, and only 15 days of Congress left, of course, several committee days, this bill finally arrives. I must say just as it is with all due respect for the members of the Ministry of Health as well as for others involved in this case, that I feel that this has taken way too long. But I say for my part that I would never have accepted all this time on this project, even though there is a bill of 40 articles with a variety of laws on the 1994 law, which have subsequent changes. I feel that this two - year - long process is rather demeaning. The primary objective of the bill is to increase the security of tenants and establish more firmness and the relationship between tenants and landlords so that a conflict can be avoided later. All right, that's very good. Second, free contracts are between landlords and tenants. Yes, there should be no new recommendation, of course, that it should be that treaties are free rather than a set law code. Good, that's fine too. In addition, changes in the assessment of the rented home should be made so that people gather for the applicant instead of being consulted automatically by the local construction representative. Yeah, sure, sure. Fourth, it is suggested that the costs of these assessments as well as of other activities expected to be divided between the participants. Yeah, sure, sure. Finally, it is suggested that there be more detailed measures to monitor a ministerial servant with the work of renters. I'm sure that's a big deal, too. However, these key elements of the bill are the result of two years of work. I have to say just as it is that I feel this took a long time unless a minister has been planning to have the two bills on the schedule today as well as the two bills trapped in the financial secretary's hands through a cost assessment. I don't think they're stuck on the sole basis of cost assessment, I think they're primarily trapped because the lndependence Party doesn't intend to place any money on these housing bills that the applicant party prides itself in and promises to work on and put out, but it doesn't follow up, and that's why the case is stopped, not for the Ministry's employees, but for the Secretary of finance, for the government. The government has not agreed to provide the funds needed for the other two pioneers, which are stocks and housing improvements. I'm more concerned with being content with prime minister over the government, where this was supposed to be such an important case for candidates, but the outcome is this. These are all needs and good changes, but the raisin at the end of the dog is, of course, - and that's why this bill is presented, and the second bill that will be discussed in the brief review of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, the Office of Public Affairs, says in its final session. The same is true here as the second bill, by permission of the president: ▪ Let the bill remain unchanged that the law cannot see that it will affect the expenses of a government fund. I think that's why these bills passed through the Ministry of Financial Affairs, and the secretary of the housing got it through the government they're sitting in, but the other two bills that make expenses for the state funds are stopped there. Unfortunately, I have to predict that they do not appear at this council, as I thought they were the highest. A minister indicated here yesterday with his description that bringing it in the fall would be the priority. That's the problem. I'd like to go over the position at the rented market, which is very serious. It's bad because there's too little rent supply, and that's why rent is so high. If it is right to have a three - room apartment, you will be approaching 230 - 240. K. Of course, in the capital area, it is a very serious matter and tells itself that those trapped in a rented market will not survive because they cannot buy housing because they do not have 20% in deposit, but it is not handled here or in other prime places. They are stuck in a rented market, and it tells themselves that the person or the party needs to live up to 500 of you. K. the income to pay for the rent. Although rent payments may do something to meet them, they are not so high that they remember everything. In this, the tenants' position is mixed. Hv. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir is, in fact, a spokesman for the Agency's housing services by the civilian members, who serve on the welfare committee that receives this bill. I asked her out in the largest campaign hall of all promises, the head correction, that was supposed to be 300 billion, but ended at 80. It was 80 billion who came from the treasure of the Kingdom, but let us not speak of the 70 billion because they come from each of his savings to deposit it. Although that is a good way, it is not part of the way it was promised for elections, so memorablely betrayed, as it were. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister, she may be able to answer that question when she comes up in her final talk on the subject: How does a headliner correct or adapt a roommate? Whether it is a student social agency, Bustir, social clubs, or other societies on this market, it doesn't matter. What's the correction of their mutant loans, as promised? How does a tenant get his way? None of this has been identified. A respectable president. I had the opportunity to attend the Group meeting of the United States to sit in a seminar where Eggertsson Dagur B. went through the city of Reykjavík for housing and rent. I think there's the only light in the dark in these cases, i.e. Depending on the current part of Reykjavíkurburg, what they are going to do in housing in the capital area. It was a big plan, but there were some warnings about stock strength, etc. who must come from the government. Nowhere, and really, this is the state of inactivity of the present world. Governments with the forwarding party in both the media, and the government that upsets many of Reykjavík's plans. That's a very serious matter because this is where the need is. I also want to know that while rent - rent problems are the most common problem in the capital area, there are problems in many parts of the country as well, so to speak. Lack of rented housing and lack of housing in the social system for those less fortunate in society inhibits growth of the development of employment and intensification of rural society in many parts of the country. That's even. Because of their former work of independence and forwardees when they were in government that the system was destroyed, a system with extended interest. I know that these buildings and good terms with small interest were, in fact, the only light that many people saw in housing all over the country, but it was desolate. I've asked the highest. Department of Social Affairs to the Cranium Correction. Now it has to say, as it is, ministers do not necessarily listen to the discussion taking place. I notice that the highest. Since a minister is not listening, it probably has no purpose to raise questions. But I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to an idea adopted at the Union National Conference, which is creating an impulse system so that a person can rent out one apartment and make an entirely taxable income. I think it's an operation that should be performed. This would make it possible for more apartments to be rented, perhaps larger housing being changed so that smaller apartments could be rented out. In effect, there is a similar idea as being involved in renting homes for tourists, but a bill from one minister on that matter is presented and started working with it on a professional network committee, i.e. to help people rent an apartment for tourists a week. But one of the problems we face today is the large number of apartments, especially here in the capital area, which is rented out for tourists and is therefore out of public rent. That's why I'm asking the highest. Minister to the idea of tax shortages at the highest rate. Minister is coming to the room, i.e. Whether this case has not been discussed by individuals so that they could rent one apartment out free of charge. I think that would be a quick way. A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphphénsson was opposed to the members of the Convention, then. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir, who discussed some form of consent from tenants or others, concluded on these bills. She was beginning to think that it would be better if these bills remained in a drawer of the Ministry. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Has she come to this conclusion, and is such a conclusion? I couldn't find this approved at the short time I had to look for it. Who did this? What were the comments on this bill, which are many articles but little more than for the personal adjustments set in there? Finally, in the discussion of housing matters, I would like to say that the big two matters that are attached to the secretary of finance, and the advance team does not come through the Ministry or Secretary of finance, and that they do not receive funding, of course, are the big things that we are waiting for. This bill here, along with the other bill that will be discussed, is for the sake of a set of laws that have become considerably old. I do not understand, however, how it was possible to spend two years with this bill that has finally appeared during the last days of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u65	Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion much on my part, but it's hard to put into a vein when it comes to housing and finally we get something from the highest level. A government on that subject, other than the plagiarism. We've got two bills here, and we're here on the agenda, one after the other, and the previous on the rent. When a person reports it, it seems that various aspects of it are being adjusted, balanced between parties, landlords, and landlords, and those who pay the rent. Of course, that's fine. So I do not belittle the fact that there may be some technical refinements that can be improved, which are no wonder, since the laws of the law have come quite to their own years. However, something has failed in this regard, I hear from myself, regarding the complete dismissal of authority so that specific tenants may be agreed with their own groups. I understand that it has caused some confusion and is something that obviously needs to be viewed. The big question is, what difference does it make? What is this input into the solution of the housing problem, which is drawing up quite seriously here for many understandable reasons when the collapse has taken place here? Or do we still believe there have been a collapse in Iceland? True, not all of them feel that way, but I assume that in 2008 the construction industry almost collapsed, and the building industry almost went on its side, and it stood in a half-circumcised camp all over, which, though, became so small a little disintegrated to finish. But the construction volume was greatly reduced, even though it might be possible to do so. But this has soared all too far to the other table, and for a time it has been built too little to meet new rivers and changes that are progressively changing. Fewer people may live in each house, change their biological status with the nation, etc. If such a situation accumulates for some year, the real estate situation can become quite serious, and that is what I think it will be. Despite the lack of real estate data, researchers and philosophers say, however, at least 101 have come to terms with the fact that in the middle of the town, conditions are getting a lot closer to a vaccination situation. This may not be surprising in view of the lack of housing and popularity in this part of town, with very little housing being added elsewhere. However, there is something else that has not been built. It is, of course, debt. It has some kind of expectation effect there. They need to be kept in mind. Part of the situation is that investment companies have invaded the market and have bought up a substantial amount of apartments, seen it as a considered investment option, and perhaps not many other desirable ones. For a time, someone was told that the situation was like this in certain areas in Reykjavík that offer and commission from certain investors who are gathering housing immediately. The growth of tourism has resulted in a considerable amount of housing that has been rented to tourists, and then there is a high percentage of the structure available also to work there. The market is desperately short of medium and small and medium-sized apartments, and the price for them is being pushed up. Of course, it is the same well that the rent price has become very high, and it is a bit contrary to the examples in which young people who are trying to fit in, perhaps for the first time, are faced with the advantages of renting for 200 p.m. K. In addition, over a month, a relatively small apartment, or trying to buy a similar apartment, often resulting in a payment on the same apartment that costs 200 yards. Plus renting, it's only 150 grand a month. The problem, however, is that to borrow, you need 5, 6 million who have money. This is the situation. It is not easy for people who are not well - placed to have laid down or to have a good share in raising 5, 6 million, newly out - of - school people, ten - rent people, and paying high rent rents, how should they make this change? And the special property path, which people promise here very, yes, of course, to those who have the position to put through it by means of a gift from state and rural society, which takes time and does not solve the situation at this moment. This has drawn up a position which is very serious. I think the only real solution to this is, of course, that it's not such a total seal market, that it's the landlords, or owners of the house that governs the law and praise, and the rest of the crew, they're going to be left there. And what does it take to do so? Yes, what the landlord needs, of course, has long been far overdeveloped and has been connected with the tireless emphasis on special policies that have been fired for decades and have proved to be a failure to the nation, I think in the past. It has not always been a means of profit to push people into trying to own their own housing, even with a very low income, to cope with it and to cope with the trauma and fluctuations it can follow, and with the expense of having a home that is often forgotten in these calculations. Because it is, of course, a cost of more than 150 fars. K. the payments on loans of 25◯28 million. K. An apartment to have it. It also requires that we keep and maintain the house, which is certainly only in other context when talking about rent prices. That's the way it is. Of course, tenants need security. Some of it's being handled in the bill, that's fine. They need manageable prices associated with the standard of living in the country. By himself, 200 would be yours. K. a month before a 70 square foot apartment, I'm sure it wouldn't take much rent if you were on Norwegian, but we're on Icelandic. What are they fighting about these days? Isn't it getting the lowest wage in the country from 204 you. A k., which can't help renting a three-bedroom apartment in the midfield in Reykjavík? What, then, should people live if every dollar they earn, even before it comes to taxes, if they were now only on this lowest wage, would rent? Clearly, then there is a much more varied possibility. I think it's obvious that what would be best for this market would be an extended supply on small apartments and, in fact, perhaps, small and medium-sized apartments. There's a lot of missing. Is this a bill in solving the problem? Well, it's fine to improve the legal status of the tenants in some way, perhaps you would think: Will, in itself, increase the supply of rent housing to support the legal status of the tenants as legitimate as it can be? Not necessarily. Perhaps the landlords think, " Wait, there's not much more to this for us than it is to invest in a rented house if we have to take on more responsibilities and more money to our customers. ' I think the root of this problem needs to be taken in a very large way. One thing I feel is that men have overlooked too much, and that is the importance of some part of this approach, according to the needs of different groups, as has always been when large domestic conflicts have been fought. Then people have reacted to a situation and have at the root of the problem, with the goal of solving the needs of those to whom they should, whether they were students, income - poor people, workers, workers'farms, elderly, desperates, or other such persons. It could be a significant introduction to this problem that men may also be running a more intense conflict, a more specific conflict, e.g. to enhance buildings in student parks so that much more of the rural areas in which there are large schools, in Reykjavík, in Akureyri, and in other places where colleges and students need housing, they are released through it. This will relieve the pressure of the public rent. The same can be said of apartments for the elderly or housing designed for the needs of disability, etc. as soon as we get the practical solutions for those groups and their social housing, which are then being offered to the poorest - paying people, the most difficult of them, to increase their supply and try to take care of them in the ◯ Allied tenants' tenements in such cases as this. So tenants and partnerships, housing partnerships, self-employing institutions, have and have the ability to raise such materials. Or where would we be? If they did not have the strength that men in the 7, 8, and the '80s had to build a special home for them, what would be the situation in housing? It took a struggle in its own time when the presidents of the Cennial committed their own houses to get loans in order to build in the Attune. Then the spirit was that they would walk in their way and raise a rock - mass. I miss looking at it on this broad horizon. There's no improvement if I'm right, which I'm no good at marking, I'm saying it, 3 mgr. of 2 st. ..that's to be removed, make it a little upset. Yes, I mentioned the policy of self-reliance, Madam President, because it has been a long time since I concluded that this inexpensive emphasis on it here with us, who has made an Icelandic real estate somewhat special, has been of little benefit as she has been fired. It has always been a struggle to find ways to make people who have no income even aquifers try to make homes that are very difficult, and when there is little left to live decent lives if the paper, at least by name, tries to make housing. In some cases, that property has been reduced to little, as it is known. I think there was a massive return in national housing since the State's House Housing Institute and men had the construction fund of workers and a general fund. The construction fund of workers was specially tailored to the needs of those who had reduced income, both social and social property houses, and the rules designed accordingly, were put into the system support in the form of low interest, of course, the great human support there. They were all dead, and they believed in the market. How's the market done that job for Iceland? Do you want to talk about it for a second? It is harmful to have no more independence or liberals in this room. What do you say we go over the market, he's got a place to live in Iceland? Is he doing it gracefully? Is he doing it in Reykjavík? Did he do this during the years around the crash? Or has he usually done so? Is he doing so in the country? No, I guess not. There is a truly unique situation in which the subject of a second discourse is available. It is a difficult situation that today, in many settlements around the country, there is a very large lack of renovation of housing and additional houses. But with the few exceptions of Akureyri's survival, there is very little foundation for normal reasons, for humans are not worth taking on the consequences of building their own housing, as the real estate there is. Farmers have little choice. If they want to build decent housing, they will build it. In recent years an exceptionally bold person has been doing so. I know an example in which men built houses that may be building a fire cutoff of 50, 60 million at the time of the transfer, but the real-estate assessment was 12 million. That was the real estate market there. Of course, people are not allowing that to distract them because they intend to live in their house. Sometimes people are too preoccupied with what they have on the paper if the point is to get up and live in it but not to look at paper property. Nevertheless, this is so that the cowardly self - interest policy that this huge work together, as well as all those that have been in these housings, and certainly since before the present social security minister has been trying to see things out, that men had learned a little from experience, and that there would be effort and strength in promoting social resources and markets. But it is certain that in these two primarys of the change in rents and housing partnerships, there is not a single dollar left of the state into the lawsuit. [[The president calls.]] In both cases, this is a financial cost assessment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u66	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the discussion here on the change in rent. There are some things I would like to go through before the matter goes to the welfare committee. However, we have received some tips in the process we have been working on or in one way or another - they may not go directly to our rent laws, the legal frames there is - or they are still considering the best way to move. There I would especially like to mention the discussion of handling problems between landlords and tenants. This may present a very difficult situation. True, this is also true of domestic differences, but the decision - making committee has ruled in the differences between private members. There is now a motion on the welfare committee to combine seven or eight decision-making committees with the Ministry of Health for one committee; this includes a provision for the decision of housing, but we will see how the welfare committee handles it. It has not been that the decisions made by these committees were binding, but of course we expect humans to make decisions. In other words, they have had no direct right effect. We are considering now and both Internal Affairs Committees that have been employed by the State Department to consider the possibility of a decision as to whether to settle the issue, if they agree to put the matter into place, might be binding for those who deal with the various issues involved in this agreement. We are still waiting to find out if this is a means to be used, but it has not been used particularly when it comes to solving problems. I would also like to mention other points that were considerably mentioned but that fall under the Minister of the Interior. In fact, tenants have stressed that when they become provincial contracts, they can cut back their careers from those committees until they can be evicted. One of the factors now being considered is whether it is possible. The whole justice system is under a lot of stress, and this could further add pressure. It would also be necessary to consider whether such issues are just enough to be handled before other situations are handled. Another factor that has also been identified is the legal status of tenants in an overworked sale. That bill has been in a review procedure with the Ministry of Internal Affairs and is about to level the legal status of tenants with owners. Today, when owners lose their home, they have a chance to stay there for up to 12 months. This is one of the things we feel we should consider and what is involved in the legal status of the estate of an exorbitant property. I also made it clear in my speech that we have met with the biggest tenants who have taken advantage of Article 2. which is suggested here to be dropped. In some ways, there have been misunderstandings, as in the case of the two. Þóra Árnadóttir Riverdotir, that this can make it difficult for communities to choose who would rent with them. There's not going to be anything different about this, but there'll still be renters free to choose whom they rent. However, there is reason to consider factors involved in increasing duties or requirements for information, e.g. In terms of income during the rent period, i.e. whether it was one of the requirements that could be considered. Then, too, I would like to point out that in ASI's social structure of a housing market, one of the things it has stressed and pointed to as role models in Denmark, it is a question of whether a person really should assume that when he is on the other side of a social system to push him out if the social situation changes. I think that's related to much, because we need to see more apartments underneath there, but the fact is that in recent years very little has been added by apartments to what we define in general as a social pacing system. The amount of money that has been set aside by the state for the lack of social loans has not been accomplished, even if the funds that have been set aside have not gone out in recent years, but it has been better just to change the past losses. What I would also like to stress is that one of the things that has been a little difficult for us in terms of individuals who have expressed themselves about the bill, which is to receive material comments about the changes. I strongly encourage the welfare committee in this process to offer suggestions on how to add the bill and then enter some of the articles of the bill so that they can handle what the reviewers might comment on. An example of what has been discussed here is what concerns students. In the vast majority of cases, temporary contracts are made. There is nothing to prevent the current law from being set up by laws that say that in special circumstances you can give people three months'notice. I think we at the Ministry of Health need to become better acquainted with the current law, since it has been in my opinion of the rent law and therefore has spread to the bill itself. It is as if people do not know well enough the right protection that exists in the present legal environment. It makes you wonder if you have really applied it. Then I'd like to say one more thing. That's what we've been discussing, and we haven't been on the Congress since this council, whether it's right to put laws on the business form of tenants. I have no doubt that there would be a lot of debate when that bill came up, but a lot of the comments came about more than that a possible legal frame around such a bill, said the run of the tenants themselves. I've been very thinking about it myself. That's one of the things we're trying to deal with, e.g. with that which turns on the insurance, to frame better what you can charge tenants in the beginning. We have an example of a group form that has been completely compromised by both housing laws and can be said to be the code of law we're trying to put around contracts where people who actually fall under law 2 g., e.g. Elderly ones who have contributed more than tens of millions, almost the value of their possessions, and who have ended up buying in their right to live in that property, but that is not a housing partnership; they have actually laid down the value of the property but have survived that their legal rights are nearly worse than tenants. This has been called a user's right to a rented apartment and was reinstated in a 2007 camp loan law that said about financing at a place like that, but had been banned since 2003. I've seen contracts that the partners have made, which refer to this user right as homey, but it has definitely not met the conditions of housing partners, so that the rights of the individual have been most reminded of tenants unless people actually paid the value of the property. This is why you have been seriously wondering whether it takes more to determine what a tenant partner is and what a housing partnership is, which we'll discuss afterwards, and then the third management plan when people have their own housing. Significantly, the comments we have received from tenants turn to the definition of what is a rented apartment, what a stable apartment or what a property store - it actually falls under the range of environmental and resource ministers - and that even in some cases the property rights of an apartment house either to sell or to rent. We'll keep working on this. That's a big deal. The bills we've been working on are, I think, each of them, ten articles. I'd like to use this opportunity here to thank the Department of Health for their hard work on these matters. This has not been easy, since there have been quite different views. What a joy it has been to work with these qualified staff who have worked hard to handle this matter as well as they can! Of course, we will be ready to assist a health committee as possible, so we can change the bill so that we will do it as well as it possibly can. If there's anything we can do, I can assure the representative of the welfare committee here that we'll be there for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u67	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalise the law of housing partnerships. In September 2013, as noted earlier today, I ordered a projection of the future structure in line with the interpretation of action due to domestic debt issues in Iceland. The Project Management Board returned its proposal by reporting in May 2014, but among those proposed by the Project Management Board, legislation on housing partners would be reviewed with the guidance that their activities would be promoted to further support such organizations in the new housing structure. So now I recommend a bill to legalize the law of housing partnerships, No. 66/2003. The bill was prepared with the representatives of the Bauta, Bust, Bustea, and Bústa residence partners in the north and the Bús. The main objective of this bill is to make it easier for housing partners to work in Iceland according to the objective that citizens of the country will be secure in housing, in accordance with the needs of each individual and as if they have a real choice of farm shape so that individuals can, in increasing measure, choose between property, rent and farm surfaces. In addition, the bill has some additional goals, such as increasing the protection of farmholders, explaining their legal status, other members of the community, and other housing partners themselves. It is also designed to contribute to the sustainable operation of such partners in Iceland at the same time as they are endeavoring to improve their diversity by assigning them to make decisions on a number of factors that may affect their business in their approved operation rather than deal accurately with them in the law. It also highlights one of the main characteristics of housing partners, but such communities are based on the participation of their members, and it is therefore important that they come, and come, to decisions that affect the interests of their partners for a longer and shorter time. In this regard, I think it is particularly important to ensure that the legal status of the home state is clear, both at entry into housing partnerships and especially at the sale of farms. In the latter case, it is more often than not a significant amount of money for a normal family here on a country that even considers life savings. I think it is important to make sure that the legal code that applies to housing communities contributes to the sustainable development of such organizations, which, unfortunately, has not always been the case here. Is this particularly intended for the benefit of members of the community? The bill is thus designed to make it easier for housing partners to work in Iceland. There are many proposed changes to existing housing laws designed to contribute to the safer and sustainable working of the partners, but also that housing partners have room to form special housing facilities and thus have the potential to organise the company's rules and management models in the way members feel fit for the company. Using the bill, aims to define the aspects of housing partners should be further developed in their approved ways in which members of society prefer and that the best interests of the community are paid for longer or shorter periods of time without a fixed law set-up. This is one of the points I specifically emphasize here. Thus, the bill allows members to determine for themselves how home payment and housing fees are set as well as contributions into other members' funds, such as the maintenance fund and housing funds. So it is assumed, as one of the most important factors in this bill, that carers can decide, for example, whether the entire cost of living should be determined by the community's operating system or by its individual farms. Accept local laws solely for the latter. Nevertheless, it is considered necessary to legalize certain activities that may contribute to sustainable housing of partners along with the maintenance of their business. Among them is the obligation to avoid paying money from housing partners who make money or make profit and who forbid the buying of the company on farm rights. Experience has shown that the buyers have been too hard on the business as well as that it would be better to have the power to place such a obligation on their business. This may be a good option at first, one that will become an illusion that can prove to be expensive. However, emphasis is placed on the fact that older contracts made in older laws or that contain such laws still retain their value. For the first time, regular assessments of your partner's finances, commitments and activities are required to make it easier for partners and partners to gain a perspective on their status, including their future commitments. The bill suggests a more precise command and role in the management of housing partners, but it is important that those taking over a administrative position in such communities and members have the role of controlling housing partners. It is also suggested that the Commission's housing partners be added to explain the details between the responsibilities of the Member State and the Commission on the other hand. This is especially important when we keep in mind that the largest housing partnerships have hundreds of millions under, not billions, but tens of billions of dollars of value brought on by the government and the managers. I think it is very important, therefore, that the members of housing partners are also well informed about the quality of homemaking and the financial risks that may be involved in such partners, especially in the case of home planning, although members are not personally responsible for the overall commitment of the society. Therefore, the bill suggests that the materials of approved housing partners and regulations set out on the basis of them should be presented to members of the Member States in the preparation of local contracts, as well as to the righting of homeholders and duties, and especially the very nature of the home payment that comes on the payment of the estate payment. In part, the value of living conditions depends on the individual situation, so it is clear that the value of living conditions can both increase and decrease from the level of home-seat payment to the construction of a home-seat contract and until the home-seat-ifier wishes in later stages after selling his home estate. It is important that the home conditions of the home should be recognized in this respect, but it is also that they realize that the estate conditions are not specifically set out in the custody of the partner organisation or that otherwise they will not be guaranteed as bankruptcy. In view of this as well as the lack of special insurance from a home owner for his estate and the financial value associated with it, I also believe that the amount of the home planning will be set under law. Therefore, the bill suggests that at the same time as it is expected that housing partners themselves will decide in their agreement how the home state payment is decided that it can take the maximum amount of money equal to one third of the market value of the stock market at the market. The bill also aims to clarify the rightness of members of housing partners as well as the partners themselves, such as the entry of members of the club, divorce and the death of members of the community, including local authorities, responsible exchange for the maintenance of real estate as well as the rightness of a party at the end of a contract. In particular, I would like to mention that agricultural rights, according to the general rules of genetic law, in the death of a homeer, have to be assumed that significant funds have been offered to buy farms, in the event of the general financial situation of paymen in this country. Thus, living rights include financial advantages that are not generally considered as personal in nature to prevent them from inheriting between humans. It is suggested that an heir be allowed to make good use of farm conditions unless the management of a housing partnership would provide valid reasons for this development, but the union is permitted to revise - this is very important - the sum of the estate that may be important for its future management. However, if he is not a member of the household, he shall sell it according to the regulations that apply to the sale of estates under the law and by the approved society. A respectable president. In accordance with local legislation on housing partnerships, which deal with the end of the fixed contract, it is assumed that the home state holder will cancel the contract at six months' notice. It is assumed that a housing partnership will automatically cover the estate after the notice has passed, along with its rights and responsibilities, and a home-tier should be handed over to the apartment regardless of whether or not he has been able to sell his mortgage. The Society is then authorized to rent out a besieged apartment, and the company can pay rent on the flat, especially in 2 mg. 25. The law says the former resident had the preconceived right to it. Seems to be somewhat vague in such cases, especially in terms of reimbursement of the value of home estate. This is also shocking in view of the assumed that the amount of money the person contributed when he bought the farm, and could be expected to get back in part or in all the way at the sale of the estate, may be considerable. This is my opinion that it is important to make changes in order to better ensure the legal status of the home state in those situations when the estate does not sell away, as stated at 25 p.m. current track. It is suggested that the home safe be held to the rights that he has paid and so continue to enjoy it, whether he chooses to stay in the store or until the estate is sold, the apartment remains in the company's sales treatments. In addition, there is always a agreement on the housing partnership, where the goal is always to use an apartment as such rather than as a rented apartment. At the same time, the interests of housing partners are guaranteed, as it is expected that the home-seat sea holder will continue to carry out its duties to the organisation at the time of its sale, both in terms of payment and maintenance of the establishment. This bill therefore contains important changes in the law on housing partnerships, which are endeavoring to promote sustainable and safe operating of housing partners, as well as those who are endeavoring to clarify and secure the rights of members, and especially the home havens. I believe it is necessary to make these changes in the law so that the layering form will be placed even more firmly in this country than it has been so far. It is clear in my mind that people here should be able to choose three types of habitations, i.e. property, rent and farm. So this is an important link so that such a choice can become real to people. There's one other thing I wanted to say that there's only been a discussion about the transition in the business. There is also a law in the bill that says that while buying is not available, a government, if the union is in such a way, can decide to buy the home state of the home estate. It must, of course, be based on the fact that the company can afford to buy the estate so that the whole society will be interested in it. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The welfare committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u68	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. The social and housing minister's talk. This is a very important bill and a major change in housing law. There's a lot of policy-making to further flexibility so that the budget can decide a road model itself, but it also reduces the role of the Ministry on the approval of the partners. They will now be confirmed, not by the Ministry, but only by the government tax manager. That may be a good arrangement. I wondered, in view of the fact that some housing partners, not all, have gone wrong and have been struggling: Who will be in charge of these associates? Of course, the unions are controlled, the board is responsible, and then members are asking the government if something goes wrong. Who is the natural surveillance provider of public members of these communities? The role of the Ministry is being reduced, and there is no bill at the council today regarding a special housing facility that could then be reduced to government housing policies and housing matters. I think I'll let it go for now. How will government surveillance be with these companions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. One of the key terms in a cooperative view is self-respect. Social responsibility is spoken of, but self - responsibility is also mentioned. Each partner in a partner must recognize that his participation and activity are vital for success in the company. So this is different from what has a traditional tenure or tenant relationship, since here are the partners themselves who make the decision and choose the administration of the company. Although the Ministry of Health had the responsibility, in current law, to confirm its approval, the Ministry has not had any control on the activities of these organizations. It was our conclusion that, as with other business forms, it is so that to record a company that a housing partnership must be submitted and that it is a company file that is responsible for reviewing whether the approved conditions are in accordance with the laws that apply to the work programme. Our conclusion was that by bringing in the factors involved in the review, as well as these increased demands on the community's duty to inform members when signing the home estate contract, members should be more aware that their decisions are not only theirs; they are concerned with their own apartment; in fact, this is about what the situation will be and the responsibility will be then.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u70	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. That's true, of course, they're partners with self-respecting. It is true that this assessment of at least every three years beyond the annual bill will be considered in the bill, where the carers can monitor the development of the situation and the information paid for the purchase of agricultural rights or entry into the club. It is also possible to include children in the company and pay social fees, although they may not be allowed to buy a home until they are 18 years old. There may be a lot of people who are right in the company without a place to live. If you live in a home, you have a lot of money in there. In view of history, is there no reason to build more confidence in this system that we want to become more general in this country, that people can trust them? People may be inclined to monitor the financial situation of their peers. You're in the club because you want to secure a roof over your head, but you may not be particularly qualified to monitor the company's economy or to see if something is going wrong in the business. I say again, I think that there may be a reason to have more active public surveillance and then more detailed information on how the review is being submitted, that there are some public members who receive it, and how it should be presented to members of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u71	A respectable president. I think that's just one of the tips the committee needs to consider. A senator is coming with us. I'm stressing that this is a very important bill. Large material changes in the law are being made. In the light of history, we know that changes that you may have felt were not so large when it was being completed proved to be a powerful influence. Here we are, as I mentioned, tens of billions of people who can be under one partner, and that's why there's efforts to increase the demands of government, increased demand for managers, increased demands for the members of their own, to understand what they're doing there. Similarly, the individual's responsibility will never be greater than that of his home or the price paid for his estate. It is thus also limited to other social obligations. But this is something I know the committee will be well over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u72	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for review of this great bill. I'd like to ask the Minister a few questions about things I don't see in the bill. I'd like to ask if the Minister had to think about whether something would have to be added to the bill that contributed to the reduction of construction costs and/or to facilitate the practical funding for young people and average income groups who choose to be mobile at this housing market. That's the first question. I'm asking the highest. Ministers also whether he thinks it needs to be examined, and put it inside this bill, to increase the duties and responsibilities of the rural community in organizational terms of the establishment of a policy market for future events. Third, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he is able to think of the change in the possibility that individuals can establish housing partnerships on the structure and management of cab sprays, and may be fewer than expected in the bill and then in more or less cooperation with state, rural areas and/or other patrons. These may be factors that are not addressed in the bill, but I'd like to ask the minister if this was discussed and if the minister had considered taking them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u73	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter for the questions. I think that's one of the things the committee needs to work out, but we're putting here a certain amount of space to focus on the rest of the partners' financing. It can be read through the legislation on housing partnerships that people have assumed that housing partnerships were primarily funded through the Substitution Fund. With the change, we are not assuming that the money comes primarily from there. There is also room for society's financial expenses to reflect on each apartment or the overall cost of the company. I understand there may be some room for societies to offer different ways to different groups, but I'm sure the budget itself will go through it better at meetings if there's any comments from those I don't doubt about. On the other hand, I also feel that it is not only a profitless tenant tenants who can get stock money but also that foundation donations can also be used to provide housing partners, which require members to meet conditions that are relevant to income and property, since the thought of those with less income and income. I believe that public support should then be directed to those with the lowest income. Regarding the number of people who can establish a house - to - house partnership, the figure is 15. That is one of the things the committee needs to weigh. We were looking for a partnership law. Then I'd also like to point out other laws that concern construction partners. They were quite new here years ago, where individuals gathered and built together, and then changed and dissolved so that people could make their own home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u74	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the answer or the answers. Question two was, would it have come to reinforce the duties and responsibilities of the local community on the planned burial and housing markets that would be planned for the future? Then, as the minister tried to answer in his final words, it may be a matter of the capital area and the back of the country and its rural areas, whether these laws will be met both in the area of the country and in the capital. Clearly, it reaches the capital area, where it is not a problem to create a society of 15 people. It may be more difficult for smaller rural areas in the country to think and wonder: Is it true that these rural communities need to apply for an exception from the law? Is it not proper, then, to do just as much in the law to lower this appeal number, this 15, because I think there may be areas around the country, scattered settlements, that will not be able to meet these conditions? Then there's something special for the legislature to start off with as much important a bill as this is, and it's going to be the smallest of the rural population looking for a legal replacement. So I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if this is the case and if he sees anything to prevent it from being changed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. In part, the question is about the tip we've just received about the selection of apartment housing provided by rural society. I think it's very important that we carefully review it, linked to planning laws, and I think that rural society has a provision today to demand for its own diversity when it comes to different housing practices. It may also adjust the size requirements, such as those on some of the apartments, which are based on some of the areas being assigned. There are precedents about that, for example, from New York and London, where they see not only the size of things but also the income of people who are going to the apartments. This is our suggestion, to keep these 15 members as low as possible, but it is important to listen to what the managers say and also to hear from their local communities themselves, what they think is the situation. It was built around the country in the social apartment system. Happily, for the most part, we have put our arms around that problem. But I think it is also important to bear in mind that all the decisions we are making now, which are moving towards housing, will have an effect on the long future. So I trust it, and I know the committee will do it well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u76	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss changes in the law on housing partners. The rest of the bill is based on proposals made on the future budget of housing, but as mentioned earlier, the highest standards have been made. The social and housing minister requested the project management in September 2013 and returned the proposal in May 2014. I was on the project manager, and it was both a valuable and an enjoyable time, and I want to use this field to thank the confidence that I was given to work on these important issues. Some critics have found that a long period of time went by since the project administration produced until these tenets about the tenet came to light. In this context, I would like to say that there are complex issues and that at work there have been extraordinary consultations with the various business partners who have different viewpoints and opinions about these factors. It is only necessary to look back to the last term when committees and reports on ideas and suggestions for improving rent markets and no bills of bills came to light. It shows that this process is a very complex process, and there are a variety of factors and perspectives between individuals and associates. The bill on this subject is about the change in housing partnership law, one of the four primary market bills. One of the four primes was here in 1st. At the council earlier today, there was a great discussion of the matter. This has now been referred to the Senate welfare committee, which is about changes in rent law. As we have seen, two of the four primary stop points are at financial cost, and they deal with housing improvements, which are an ever - increasing support to those in the tenant market, as well as about building grants to nonprofit roommates. These four bills are all connected and have specific contact points, so it would be very good if all the bills at once were to be made at a given point for a discussion on the Senate welfare committee. The bill on this subject will be referred to the Senate welfare committee, and I am confident that good relations will prevail between members of the committee and the agreement to complete the bill properly. I'm going to use my talk to go a little bit into that section of the bill, which is a point to comment on its articles. The bill on this subject deals with changing law No. 66/2003, about housing partnerships, with subsequent changes, but the bill was prepared at the Ministry of Health to agree with a representative of housing partners, Buseta hsf., Bussta in the Northland hsf. and Bumen hsf. In addition, the work of the project management of the future housing arrangements was much consulted, and much of its subgroups were working under the regime itself, where various stakeholders and partner members came to the table and worked with the board. The main focus of the bill is to make it easier for housing partners to work in Iceland, but it is important that the aim of such partners'business is that as many as possible have security in housing and that the equality of countries among their members can buy agricultural dishes. I'm delighted that the bill has arrived and that much change is made, for it is very important to strengthen the foundation of these communities. It is a good idea for all who live in a house - to - house market to have a realistic choice for housing, renting, living in their own homes, or living in a home - to - house ventures. The bill says: It is important... that housing partners have the means to create special housing facilities in the country and thus have the opportunity to set up social rules and a business model in the way members consider fit to be a member of the company. With the bill, seek to define the aspects that housing partners should expand in their approved ways in which members of the community prefer and consider the best interests of the society. It is suggested that a more precise provision be made in the approved financial partnerships, including their stocks, management funds, reserves, and maintenance funds, in which the role of these funds is further defined as well as how they are financed. According to the bill, a measure of authority is being given to members of the housing society rather than to be clearly stated in the law. It is very important, in the light of history and in the light of events that have taken place in certain housing partners in this country, that members of the partners have more authority, be more informed about all the financial positions of the company, etc. Suppose, for example, that a society has a particular business problem or that such a thing arises when members are informed about the situation before everything goes to coldwashes. This is a set of frameworks and members of each social group can affect how each social group is approved by itself. But how important it is for individuals to place a lot of money, many even their life savings, in these communities, to have information about the decisions their peers make! I have had some meetings with certain housing partners where this law has been discussed, and a certain member of a business union has been delighted to have the authority to move more to members of the community into the background and that a guard is the place for decision making. Although more membership is being opened, it is very important that certain items remain in the law, but the bill says: Nonetheless, it is considered necessary to legalize certain activities that could contribute to the sustainable operation of housing partners along with the maintenance of their business. For example, it is recommended that housing partners be prohibited from paying funds to those in the company who are making money or any use of money, but it is expected that land management will be spent for the growth and maintenance of the company, such as subsidies from its loans. Furthermore, it is proposed that housing partners be forbidden to negotiate the housing rights of the partner in their agreements and housing agreements. We also come to an important point, there are many housing partners who have left behind the purchases some years ago, yet there is something different between partners. In the market, it has been shown that buying partners out of society can be a burden to the financial situation. But as mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. A social and housing minister can be found in the agreed enterprise that if the financial situation allows and there is considerable room to buy out under certain circumstances. The bill, its legal side, says: While it is also suggested that housing partners be required to perform routine assessments of their financial, commitment and social activities, such a routine assessment could lead to the intervention of the financial community before it is considered a major concern. Such assessments may seem useful to partners in order to inform members of the company's status at a time. Unfortunately, these factors seem to have been misinformed so far. It is suggested that orders and roles be given to the management of housing partners. This is important not only for the members of the organisation but also for all members. At the same time, housing partners are expected to do more closely in their approval of roles and choices. It is suggested that those who are authorized to represent the housing community must not make the arrangements that clearly fall to obtain certain members of the community or other adverse interests at the expense of other members of the community or society, end up with the prerequisite housing partners that all members are involved in the company on equal terms. This law has, in the meetings I have been sitting in, received a very good response, the information responsibilities and the participation of members. It is also referred to in the bill and suggested that home payment be made to a maximum of the amount equivalent to one-third of the market value of the local home store when shopping. The bill also seeks to explain the rightness of members of the housing partners as well as the partners themselves, such as the entry of members of the club, and the divorce, death, and the like. There are other factors there, it's a very important bill. It also suggests how to deal with those who are 18 years of age and younger, if parents register their children in housing communities, what to do, what to do with rights to a dead mate, and much more. I think it'll be very useful and good to get the bill to the Senate welfare committee. It should therefore be noted that significant consultations have been made with a number of people in the processing of the bill. If the bill is legalized, the law's impact will primarily be that housing partners have more room to create special housing facilities by conducting their rules and management models in the most appropriate way for each partner. In this way, housing partnerships are likely to improve, leading to increased ability for individuals to have a real selection of farm shapes. I view it as the greatest purpose of this bill, this law, that individuals have a choice for farm shape, but we are not all cast in the same form. We differ as many of us as we are, and there are different ways for us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u77	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and some improvements that may be found in the bill on the environment of housing partners. I'm coming up here to get in there. A candidate for the forward party, depending on how debt goes into those communities, in line with the actions being carried out against the people who are in their own shelters. Last year, we have been waiting for the same treatment, the rights of the people in these communities to receive, and the rights of the house market. We've been here for the highest degree of inquiry. Since January and May nearly now, Prime Minister Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson, the son of Gunnul, has not yet trusted in answering that question. I think I know it's gonna burn in the district of why. A senator thus asks: How does correction for the people in their housing communities and certainly have a large rise in the loans and payments they live under?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u78	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for the counter-reactivity. Correction or chief format entry, the operation of the government, went to individuals, it did not go to law. However, we are working to improve the quality of housing partnerships, and some of them can even apply to the provision of the building plants that are being developed and presented, including those listed. This, for reimbursement, and it has been observed at meetings of specific housing partners. In addition, the bill on the way to the council is for housing or housing support to those in the tenure market, and you really hope that it can bring improvement to those who live in the system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u79	A respectable president. That's what I'm talking about. A senator saying that the people who are in Bustea or other housing partners should not receive a head strategium scheme, such as others in a housing market, that such a decision has been made? One must ask: Is there no serious objection to the words of some candidates and minister on the importance of rents or housing partners? Is there no money that comes with that statement? Is the only way that there is something to be done to the legislation around them but to leave those with mutant loans in housing partners, to turn laws around the rent market, but don't bring any money into stock or housing support? The bills you're talking about. A senator was referring to the kind of support that these communities could use in the Ministry of Economic Affairs because the Agency has not left any funds to follow them. I ask that the senator be absolutely clear about this: Is it because of the decision that those living in Busts or other housing partners will not have equal terms for others in the housing market and will not be able to reimpose the mutants on these housing companies?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u80	V.E.G. President. As noted in my earlier words, the government's penalties did not cover legal matters, housing partnerships are classified as such. This discussion was taken around - it would have been fine if it were. paritaprevir Well, Hjörvar'm sure it would've been here in the audience to listen to what I'm saying, but he left. Yes, I'm just going to repeat my words, so we took this discussion in the discussion of the debt measures, but we certainly hope that the basics of housing and strategment will come as soon as possible to the members of the council for their benefit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u81	President Hithv. We'll discuss a bill to legalise a change in the law on housing communities. The objective of the bill, as shown in the notes involved, is to make it easier for housing partners to work in harmony with the government's objective that citizens enjoy security in housing and have real choice for farm shapes. I believe it in itself is nothing but positive, and it adds up to people's choice of living arrangements or housing. They also note that housing partners have room to create special housing facilities and thus have the option to conduct social rules in a manner that members themselves consider to be desirable or suitable for their partners. The objective is, as shown in the highest court. Minister in her lead-in-the-view speech, to contribute to the sustainable and safe operation of housing partners. The bill is very technical in nature, I have to say, and it handles things such as the role of the management board, it is discussed with executives and directors. It speaks of membership, the provision of annual accounts, the reporting of the administrations, and what is to be done there, and probably nothing but a good thing about saying that it is being taken into consideration in the bill. V.E.G. President. However, there is nothing to do with meeting housing housing partners in terms of subsidies. This is a growing group but could not correct their loans at a large 80 billion dollars. Penitentiary at the highest. Governments and is not seeing at this bill that they are to be given anything further this time, despite what has been promised in the discussion and something suggested, that there may be a possible fixation of bills that we have not yet been given and are still on a financial cost evaluation. Of course, that is not good enough and causes a certain disappointment. However, as shown in financial and economic cost assessments using this bill, legalisation of that particular bill is not expected to lead to any financial expenditures. As I say, it's quite disappointing to me, but in terms of the bill and what it seems to be, as far as it gets, it's a fall in the framework of housing partnerships, thereby strengthening the legal status of home-tiers. As I told you earlier, the bill is very technical, so it will be very interesting to see the reviews that are going to come in. The welfare committee for the bill. I think it's very important that we sit at ease. They are covered by a welfare committee, for as shown in the case of the Supreme Court. The minister of the past may be able to make changes that at first appear to be trivial and therefore very important to get the comments of those best - known to the management of housing partners, to know the best of the environment, and even to have their own experience in being such a cohesionary sea. It is disappointing that here there is no discussion of how to meet the homelady in terms of debt subsidies, since there are still a group who are unsettled and who have not benefited from the enormous transfer of money that has already gone to the owners of an apartment building but are still people who are living with a changed loan and, of course, paid rent in their housing partners to match that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u82	Mr. President. We here address as shown by the review of the law on housing partnerships. Is it in the spirit of government housing policy to promote the housing of partners and to put a higher weight on the Icelandic housing market and to try to strengthen confidence in that business and increase national freedom of choice in housing and to improve housing security? It came out in the open as my party brother, okay? paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, the initiative was not to meet the families who were in debt for inflation in the wake of the collapse and the collapse of the Icelandic crown in the same way as those who have special property in their homes and not their tenants. Is this an enormous difference between people and their homes? I think I'd like to remind you again that of the 80 billion who are going to reduce their homes' debt, 51 billion go to 30% of the world's highest income. This, then, is a clear priorities for which homes are worthy of enjoying the social justice of the right government. Like what? paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir pointed out this is such a technical bill. It's basically a bill that requires you to read very closely along with existing laws. Of course, this is always done by legal bills, but there is work to put together the bill and the laws to facilitate understanding of the changes being made. A minister admitted that these are changes that will have unexpected consequences. Of course, a minister has established the matter to the best degree, but he needs to consider that the treatment of the case on the committee is definitely not making changes that may have unexpected consequences. We'll go over it in detail and send it to a number of reporters. At my first tour of the case, I am particularly concerned with the monitoring of housing partners, that there are some official members who are doing this. Also, the extent to which it should be and how best to do so is to be evaluated. There are financial interests on the part of people's homes, and natural that the public takes responsibility or maintains trust in protecting their interests. The role of the Ministry is also being reduced, which was not much. There was more to it than on the table. There's another thing I wanted to come on, which makes it just that it's uncomfortable not to cover all these bills at the same time, because this is changing, not to specify a camp loan fund, especially as a lender, but to drop an apartment loan fund under other loan agencies. Of course, this will not change anything if this is guaranteed, but we do not know the future of an apartment loan and how it works. It appears in a bill that may not arrive until the fall. But it is naturally important that loyalty be loans to partners like these, which can also finance public markets. We do not know right now whether the government intends to pay for the developers to these communities. It is shocking to discuss this matter without the financing side, both their opportunities for financing and funding from the public. But the matter goes on with the committee. As I explained in my talk on bill to legalize the change in rent law, we on the committee will strive to win these matters as best possible and will start working right away next week and evaluate them. But I hope while we're talking about this bill, the case we're waiting for is the financing show, because that's obviously crucial to the ultimate goal. Ministers are expected to perform, increasing the variety of housing markets and securing the security of all the citizens of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u83	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the discussion on the bill on the change in housing law. In view of the nature of the discussion, there are a few things I would like to mention at the end. A big deal is then the discussion of the correction of debt was taken here at the council. She was thinking about individuals, loans to individuals. If individuals borrowed money, they were entitled to a correction of debt. As a result, those borrowing from buying farm dishes were also entitled to a correction. The additional, as mentioned in my background, in the bill and in the law itself and it is not being changed, is the responsibility of the home state by myself, so that those who are members of society and who buy home are not responsible for the commitments of the company. I reiterate that it is very important that the welfare committee carefully reviews the changes here are being suggested, in turn, to the financing of the members. They are opening up for the fact that instead of the financial cost and other costs related to a single estate safe to use, the cost of living is reflected in the home estate and then may reflect the overall cost to the company. As a result, it allows the budget for financial reorganization and, in some cases, significantly improve the status of the individual farm conditions. This is something I think it's necessary for the committee to be very careful with the regulations involved. It is also opening up to the fact that not only are the apartment loans being seen as the financier for these communities but it is to face the trend where other creditors have just rushed to bed on the mortgage market. After we accept these changes in the law, hopefully it will be reflected in the fact that these companies will become even better creditors so that creditors will be prepared to finance the projects to which the budget is looking. It is difficult to talk about a bill that has not been mentioned, but I have always given it up - it was a discussion we took in our time and associated with a change in the apartment loan fund, when we were discussing what tenures were - that when it comes to supporting our social housing system, housing partners have the right to support, too, so it can affect the status of the individual society. However, there are certain obligations related to the person's income and property, those in the respective communities. I know they're gonna do this well with the Committee, and they're gonna be good at it. It's a big bill, and it's my hope and belief that it will make housing partnerships grow here in Iceland. I really hope that when the bill comes back from a welfare committee, every member of the committee will be convinced that he will be a partner.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u84	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize court law, No. 15/1998. The bill suggests that the U.S. Supreme Court will temporarily increase from nine to ten from September 1, 2015. According to the court law, a number of judges at the Iceland Supreme Court shall be nine. Because of pressures on the Supreme Court following the collapse of the bank, the courts were changed in 2011 and the Supreme Court was temporarily increasing by three. This was done in a way that the office of judges would not be appointed to the court that was released after January 1, 2013, until the number of judges would again be nine. In February 2014, this was accomplished and judges at the Supreme Court have been nine since then. However, stress on the Supreme Court continues to be high because of the number of cases, such as the number of cases involved in the treatment of the court. According to the 2014 Supreme Court report, this year's increase has been seen in the 2013 issue. It also states that considering the number of cases that took into account between 2008,2013, the number of cases increased in 2014 by 111, i.e. 13%. There has been a large increase in the number of civil cases with the same criteria, i.e. some 96 cases equal to 33% increase. Therefore, predictions on the decline have not been made. That is the source of the Supreme Court approved by law No. 138/2012, and since January 1, 2013, to appoint a backup judge to take up individual matters is not fully achieved. This source is temporary and disappears at the end of 2015. It is Iceland's Supreme Court opinion that a temporary increase in the Court's judgment is needed and the Ministry considers it proper to respond to this indication. It is suggested that the same procedure will be made so that the judges will not be appointed to the U.S. Supreme Court, which will be released after 31 December 2016 until a number of judges return to nine. Because of the great pressures now in Iceland's Supreme Court and the importance of maintaining the rate of speech in good terms, I believe it right to suggest that the Supreme Court will be in accordance with the court's wishes by one of the Supreme Courts, and I suggest it to a respectable General. A respectable president. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that it be followed by this discussion referred to the General and Education Committee and to the 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u85	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. This is very brief in comments to the bill and, in itself, no doubt, both urgent and important. Unfortunately, we are often at the council making laws about temporary arrangements where we expect that some situation will last for a certain time and then sit by repeatedly extending such laws that may not be good for legalization in general, to stir such things, so I would like to ask the highest degree. Minister if she believes there is any such danger here. Can we be sure that this temporary arrangement will do so, or can we expect that the autumn of 2016 will again be extended? My second question may not exactly be the bill that is being discussed here but the general way in which it feels the most comfortable way in which it puts matters on the subject of gender to design in the Supreme Court and to the provinces. Sexual instability in the courts of the country is an independent and independent concern. Does it picture the possibility that some specific and defined measures can be taken to make it more quick than in the legal environment we live in today?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u86	A respectable president. I can say with what. A senator that it is never good to have to present such temporary issues as this matter. I remember that the first thing I foretold in this festival was about a temporary increase in district judges. Since then, I have also brought up a case about the delay of forced sales. We've had to deal with local courts before, and, as I said in my brief speech, we've also been taking on an increase in the number of Supreme Court judges. We have considered ourselves in some temporary situation. We will not have to spend long term with the judges so many, whether at the state level or at the Supreme Court's trial, as we have seen here. Yet, there has been a regional view that perhaps for some time, it is still necessary to look to an increase. Some evaluation must be made. That's what I want to do, I want people to go over it thoroughly. In this case, I thought it would be wise to comply with the claims of the Supreme Court. The Supreme Court determined that this was what he needed. He has informed us exactly about the pressures on the court as it is at hand. It's changed considerably. We now see an enormous number of lawsuits that are unusual but that seem to be persistent, so there is some change in what we need to be aware of. Then let's get it together as a boy. A senator mentioned a female judge's identity. There is a large increase in the number of judges of our good sex in the province of Reykjavík, the number of women in the class of judges. I can see that this development will appear in the Supreme Court. I have not been a spokesman to go further in it than to encourage women to apply. We have very many capable female judges who measure up fully to the standards of the Supreme Court.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u87	A respectable president. There we are opening up a new and exciting discussion about whether we are generally underrated by specific measures to correct gender differences in society's institutions. I'd like to try to pray to the highest level. A minister to share with me his speculations on this matter because in the General Report after the collapse of the bank, the problem of decision-making was specifically discussed. Then, in effect, we are talking about all aspects of the trident government, council, execution, and judicial authority. The Court is a very large boat left over. Today, at the General Assembly, 40% of the staff are women, and we have a record of 40% when it was due. paritaprevir For Steinunn, in the Árni of Þór Sigurðsson's son, the daughter of Þóra, the daughter of Árnadóttir, was taken over from work. In many respects, the authority has taken an important step. During the last term, there was a gender ratio in the United States and left greener when it was settled. I have learned that gender motives are increasingly prominent among groups that may have been hesitant about using eating in their reagents or when selecting a list, and that they have not used a complex list needle or anything like that. However, both the council and the European Commission show greater weight on this subject, both the ideologies and the discussion as well as the events that are then visible. Therefore, I find it very important when it comes to the Court's judicial authority, which is the third article in the state that we could also take a quick step in this matter to ensure that gender balance will at least not be inhibited because we are taking steps into a healthy society after the collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u88	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to have a little thought - provoking discussion about this subject. I believe that the best thing for society is that both opinions seem to be involved. I've spoken of it, however, I have not felt that it should be done by forced means. I have felt that it was important for society to realize how important it is. It's my point of view when it comes to art selection, for example, it's my opinion that it's normal that there's always a choice on what, you should just see how unwise it is to have just another sex. Then we can talk about either sex. In the ministry I am in this time and time of the most maleeign ministry, the administration is now more and less of all women. Both my assistants are women. You have to take this with you in your heart, and I think it's beginning to get to both senses that it's important to do so. There's a rule about a district judge's order. This may have been the most recent command, and it must include very rigid qualifications and qualifications for those who apply it. It is not always that a minister has a choice. Of course, I must choose the most qualified person to perform this important work, but I feel that it is so important that we see that women are turning much more into those jobs and that they are growing up. Then I believe it, and I believe I see evidence that it will also appear in the Supreme Court, and it will certainly matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u89	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the change of legal law. The proposed changes have the goal of improving the protection of human rights and the privacy of individuals in Icelandic society. It is highly important personal rights that can be put to the test when individuals are in a delicate position. The bill offers suggestions for improving legislation and legislation on the basis of it. During the preparation of the bill, the Ministry has agreed on the best policy achieved by the aforementioned target. In 2012 an informal consultation with the Ministry of Internal Affairs began with an open meeting by the Ministry on Human Rights of Mental Patients. At that work, the voices of many people who are under compulsion were heard in one way or another. The results of the Communication Group were presented to the Ministry in a report and are based on the changes proposed in the bill on the part of the publication. Then, following visits by the European Parliament to Iceland in 2012, changes in forced schools meet with the comments made by the Committee on Freedom-like Persons. The production of the bill is also part of the preparation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. The bill is contained in 26 articles and includes significant changes, though it differs. The bill's terms can be considered in two major factors. One is a law code and a legal arrangement, such as the role of lawmakers and legislators. However, there are regulations to be carried out under compulsions, their implementation and environment, including the following steps: for the support and counseling of the candidates and the transfer of projects from the Ministry to the county. That's when the National Congress of Iceland is commissioned to keep records of legal matters, their legal guardians and councilmen on the basis of the law in place of the Ministry. These are structural changes that lead to improved individual services but also to extradite information, thus ensuring improved follow-up. The bill suggests the fundamental change that includes the temporary removal of legal rights and the temporary intervention of such an intervention in people's lives. They are expected to reevaluate the status of individuals now deprived of legal rights and to see if there are other community resources to support these individuals rather than rob them of jurisdiction. The bill also includes, if it is accepted, an untimely disbarment of legal laws ruled by the law's citizens will collapse at the end of two years from that time. The bill includes a change in approach that is closely related to the global development of human rights. It should be noted, then, that when it was prepared, a recent revision of legal law was made in Norway. When the bill was prepared, the conclusion was that this was a step bigger than that taken in Norway, but it was not suggested to eliminate premature delinquency. It was considered appropriate to go further in view of the change in individual circumstances and to take into account the type of service and assistance that are available at any given time. V.E.G. President. The proposal is based on the work that has been done in the Ministry in preparation for the validation of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people, but the terms of the contract require that the disabled be held in a legal position just like the rest of the community. This means that Member States recognize that disabled people have the capacity to match all aspects of life with those in need and that measures should be taken to ensure that they do so. In a consultation process for the preparation of the validation, strong indications were made that the measures taken by the lawgiver have already taken because of these regulations with the legal requirements of the law No. 88/2011, of the rights of disabled persons, would not be sufficient in this regard. The changes proposed by the bill are made clear that disability cannot be the basis for measures such as delinquency, decompensation, forced care, or forced treatment. In order to ensure the commitment of the agreement, the bill was implemented according to a general statement made by the United Nations Committee, which has been controlled by the Convention recently and is about the content of the agreed agreement. It is suggested that individuals no longer be allowed to self - abuse simply because they have a drinking or addiction problem, but only in combination with other causes. In addition, adjustments are suggested based on the same viewpoints that laid the basis for the sentence of a current legal law on the importance of a judge's making independent decision in the matter of delinquency. In view of the judicial action of the European Court of Human Rights, the responsible judges in such cases are further trialed, but as shown in a paper entitled by the current law, this law is not entirely a traditional law of justice. In terms of formalities in legal matters, there are adjustments to the law's laws on law and authority and to their roles and duties. Among the requirements are the need for individuals appointed to give proof of good conduct, since they have not been punished for wrongdoing under the sexual crime of penalties, as well as those authorized by lawgivers to call for proof of good conduct. Advisors are appointed to play an additional role in the follow-up and monitoring of legal matters, such as by increasing legal reporting to legal authorities because of those who have been self-sustained. At that time, a secretary's authority is issued to request a disbarred legal hearing. A respectable president. Hospitality is a serious intervention in the lives of each individual and should be respected in the longest of laws. The objective of the changes presented here is to reduce the number of forced admissions and improve their implementation as well as reduce the number of self-instructions. It is suggested that there be an increased level of information to a person's inescapable care, and that there is a spontaneous introduction to counsellor. It is also suggested that the physician always comes in time when an individual needs to be transferred to a hospital. Then it is suggested that an under compulsion be provided with counseling and support. Changes in the timelines of forced care are suggested, on the one hand, that the maximum time for forced care not requiring confirmation from external sources will be extended from 48 hours to 72 hours. This is suggested in the light of available experience, but it is thought that the necessity of the carers may be reduced if there is a better time for assessment of individual positions and symptoms without allowing for forced hospitalisation for up to 21 days. However, it is suggested that forced care be extended to a person for up to 12 weeks afterwards by 21 days of saving. Within this time, a doctor may allow an individual to experiment under normal circumstances, such as leaving a hospital for a certain period of time. It should be noted, then, that the role of rural or rural services is very important. However, it will continue to be allowed in exceptional circumstances that the next person could come to save someone close to him. The proposals of the above - mentioned meeting group on the matter of forced trials were suggested that candidates be dismissed from their authority in order to ask for an individual's forced care. As noted in the group's report, family members and family members play an important role in supporting individuals when forced care is completed, so the presence of a family may adversely affect communication and trust within a family. However, in a comprehensive discussion with the preparation of the bill, important indications were made that, in exceptional cases, these views were not applicable. There was also evidence to suggest that the rural communities are in a different position to handle this project in terms of size and location, and so a family need to be expected to arrive at home under such circumstances. A respectable president. This is the law's policy, and I challenge it. An committee reviews the viewpoints behind which we know that these matters are very difficult for the families who have to contend with them. By means of the bill, we take steps to bring the Icelandic legal environment closer to what the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people requires. It is part of a suggestion, a conclusion of a three - year consultation process on reforms in terms of forced funds. National and international indications on what can be better handled in these delicate activities are also under way. A respectable president. I have now explained the key elements of the bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u90	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the case report. I think this is an important development matter, as well as a number of needed suggestions for the case that are specifically addressed to the rights of disabled persons. I'd like to ask the Minister about those who are permanently removed now. How big is this group? How many people are the ones that come for reassessment, as well as, because this is so far beyond Norway's efforts to protect ourselves permanently, what role models we have in, who else have gone so far, and what experience do we have there? However, I would like to enter the minister according to what she mentions validation of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people. It is a project that has truly been detracted, and today, there have been differences in the way it should be done. On the one hand, the laying of necessary legislation and changing the laws that must be changed and then validate the covenant with a synonym. On the other hand, it has been required of the Quantum Community, and I think of more stakeholders, that the covenant not be legalized, as it was done with the child's contract and the European Convention of Human Rights. So I ask the minister whether the government has taken a stand on which route to take, and whether the minister of Social Affairs and Minister of Ministers has the same position as to which way to go.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u91	A respectable president. The problem that has developed in the handling of this delicate group of paintings is, in part, to keep their hands on those who are deprived of legal authority, and it is especially because of the reason why it is our evaluation that the National Congress of Iceland is given that assignment. I don't have it on rhythms how many people there are. I hope I can get that information, but I don't have it, so I don't have any information about it at this point. But I honestly think that a great improvement will be in moving this to an agency that has better chance to hold these data, although I would like to say that it's very well kept in place at the Ministry, but I just don't have it here on my own. Regarding the models that have been set out here, and as I said in my speech, Northmen don't go that far. However, there was a great deal of effort in the process of consultation and the work of everything that has been since 2012 - a very rich view of the fact that we should go beyond it, and especially on the basis of the viewpoint laid down by local scholars. Then, concerning the agreement on the rights of disabled persons, there is one more thing to follow, and that is the procedure for the implementation of the contract. That's something we need to finish too. The development of this bill is a very important step from the State Department to complete the case. Since then, we have thought that this was a validation, not a legal arrangement, of the agreement itself. But it still stands up for our surveillance, which is the main source of the work that remains in the custody of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u92	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A minister for the answers, and he agrees that this is an important step to validate, or legally validate, the covenant on the rights of disabled persons. But I still ask it: Is it the government's position not to validate the covenant and not to legalize it, as was done with the children's covenant and the European Convention of Human Rights? And is there unity with the Minister of Ministers and Department of Social Affairs on that approach? Then I understand the highest. Ministers so we're going to go further on it than others, i.e. We have no precedent for not having a permanent rejection, and I'm not complaining about it, the least I can do is to be ambitious in the demands that men make in this category, but I just wanted to make sure that that was the right understanding. Finally, I'd like to bring in a minister after that because she saw that this was based on part of the staff's proposals. It was not good to realize if it was because some other part of the group had been suggested by other factors or issues or came to another bill, or if it had been taken on some point on the part of the minister and the Ministry had been disfellowshipped from the council's proposals. If so, it would be important to me at the beginning of the discussion that the minister would appreciate that if there were any points not started, the group and the reasoning was made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u93	A respectable president. It has not been discussed so as to know in the present government or formally accept a means of validation or legalization. However, there has been a prior policy of validation, and as a result, we are working at the Ministry of Internal Affairs. In this regard, we have not had other viewpoints on our part. To me, the main thing is that we get this job out of the way and it's riding, I'm going to join you. This has been a long time for a senator, but this has proved to be complicated. Now, it's time to try and get it over with. As we have seen, there are substantial tasks under another Ministry, and it is important that they get on with it as well. It is not without reason to walk so far as we are doing, though I have been calling the Norwegians who walk a little shorter, because they looked at Norway a little bit. I'd also have to have a chance to review it exactly, but I know it's not unprecedented. But we thought in the Ministry on and after this consultation process that we had the material reasons to go quite far on this. This is a delicate matter that I believe that there we must be very careful about the rights of people. I think there's two things about an aberration. On the one hand, it is a matter of question whether the family should have any access to the matter, that is a controversial point. And I was very impressed when we were handling the matter, how to settle it to the council. In my opinion, it was safe to have this way, but at the same time, I fully realize that this is extremely difficult for the families who go with it. This is the law I believe the committee needs a very thorough review. But this was our decision at the Ministry to make it that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u94	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of the testimony with this case is certainly all for the better, and there is no doubt in the person about it. I'd like to ask because it's the highest. Especially does a minister mention the role that the family should have in these difficult matters, and he feels that the committee needs special attention. Then I'd like to pray to the highest. Minister to to swaddle in a way that could be accessed differently than is suggested in the bill. What is the opinion, or what scale, the committee might be working on in particular on this factor? It would be good, too, if a minister wanted to shed light on other matters of opinion that she felt was taken into consideration. As I understand her, she thinks it's important for the council to look into it. Then I would like to ask about the discussion process that is presented in a good chapter on consultation. It says that the bill was given an open review procedure in accordance with the Ministry's procedure and that ten reviews were received from individuals, stakeholders, etc. and that notes were overrun, and after incidents, changes in the bill were made. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What were the changes, and what comments were the most difficult to influence on the final bill at the highest rate? Minister here recommends? Finally, I'd like to ask the Minister, thirdly. It speaks of the importance of counseling and support as a result of forced care. Then I wondered if the 6 million a year at the financial cost are sufficient to cover this transition in accordance with the law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u95	V.E.G. President. First of all, about the opinion issues that I have especially called attention to and have been interested, so I repeat it, in my final discussion on this matter. The view conflicts with whether community service should be the sole concern of this issue or whether the family should be able to approach the situation in exceptional circumstances. Also, the viewpoints of the small communities and the weak to cope with the problem are fraught; it may also be heavy on that side. Then the view is that the possibility of family involvement has been too neared. It's unfashionable, but at the same time it's a little princely. Those who speak on behalf of those who have endured this very thing would like to have their families freed from all of this. I felt cautious, and perhaps because of my legal background, to have this possibility inside, although by saying that it would have to be in absolute retreat. It's kind of the inferiority art that I think the committee needs to take a close look. My proposal is to do this, but I have to admit that in this category, I have a complete understanding of the views of those who appear and speak to the families because we are familiar with the tragic and difficult examples of families after this period.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u96	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister to answer that concerned the first part of my opposition, i.e. where there are key opinions. I thank the Minister for explaining the outcome of the decision and the conclusion of the council, for it is important that certain agreements be made in what the Ministry suggests, and the council work out and then contributes to the end of the case. I would like to repeat my question from the previous answer to the discussion process and key comments made. I understand. A minister's right to believe that they were most concerned with the exact same factors or that other aspects of the bill changed according to the comments and reviews that were presented in the discussion process? Then, with this emphasis on the further implementation of increased support and advice following forced care. This was made clear in the history of the highest. Minister that this would be important in the act of the law, if the bill is approved at the Council. Does the minister think there is enough to be done? When she agrees with the financial cost assessment of up to 6 million. K. each year, which I think may be less than one position, enough to meet this factor that I agree with. Minister must be very important?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u97	A respectable president. I couldn't get to this in my previous answer. These are comments that also focus on technical factors in the bill. I present the most sensitive factor when I mention the factor I thought the committee wanted to examine specifically. Then there were technical factors that were pointed out, and I believe the Ministry tried hard to meet them, i.e. various forms of wording on extended forced care and information responsibilities and such important factors were made when we were working on this matter. It was strongly emphasized in the implementation of this case in the Ministry to try to show as much as possible the comments that were made on the matter to improve it. There was also a feature of the right of personal spokesmen and such factors, all of them legally. With regard to the budget and the arrangement, it's natural for me to state permanently as to whether there's enough money there. We agree that this is enough. They're making some major changes. They're creating much better files in a national file. They're getting it better - modern, I want to say it. It'll cost you something. Of course, we hope that this will work, and we may have faith that it is, but at the same time, I have to let it come with us that we are starting a new work. We know that we have not been able to predict exactly how things will end.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u98	A respectable president. It is a pleasure to have received this bill into the council, even though it is recommended that it be quite late in this council winter, perhaps especially in terms of the complexity of the figures involved in legal delinquency and how extremely difficult and difficult it is. It is important that the quality of the environment is especially present. However, it has been quite long in support of the fact that the case is presented, and I think it is safe to conclude a word of praise on the preparation of the case, although there may be some prognostication in the bill that needs further discussion at the council and that according to the views of those who are best familiar with the matter during the Senate treatment. But I would not want at least in the early stages of Congress to rule out the possibility that the matter could be concluded during the current council, although the remaining month of the spring council is, of course, a very short period of time for such a sensitive and important matter. Of course, it would be an important step to reach if you could succeed in finishing it. These include the growing demand for human rights, including those found in the United States. Infirm people, but also people in general, are being detracted and restricted by excommunicating them. Happily, there are ongoing developments, and as people were once fed down by organizations in a literal sense, they are now working to increase and develop people's freedom and rights, even if they have serious disability or other things that make it difficult for them to handle their misunderstandings but that they can, with assistance and help from the environment. Then I want to take this opportunity and encourage the highest. A minister to work on the big case that stands up at the Home Office to see whether or not there is a validation of the United Nations Convention on the rights of the disabled people or of the legal condition of the treaty I think that would be advice, the Supreme Court. Minister, to be discussed in the government whether it was no doubt the same understanding of the main steps taken in which a person is on the way, that it is intended to validate the treaty, or to legalize it, because there have been demands of the disabled people's interests that it be legally established, with certain logic, in the same way that the defence covenant was established, in fact, to a lesser and the highest degree. A minister when she was a senator and more fine senators, and in the last century, when men decided to legalize the European Convention on Human Rights. The rest of the matter, as the Minister mentioned by the Ministry of Internal Affairs, is of utmost importance in bringing the law here and our entire environment of this human right of disabled people, the United Nations Convention there, to monitor the implementation of the contract. There is some kind of human rights institution or another person in charge, including with this legislation in which the rights of people are being guaranteed, these laws need to be respected and carried out not only by writing but by hand. Of course, the work is not completed until we have set up a checkup in line with the regulations set out in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disregarding People. Sadly, this is not the only case we have left. I think I'll remember correctly that in 2006, Iceland confirmed the treaty, it's going to be ten years since we've been doing it, without we've managed to complete the necessary changes to the laws and regulations, and set up the institutions that have to be set up so that we have signed the treaty or that we can legalize it. It has to be said, as it is, that we have become unusually back on this point in comparison with other nations. which many have long since ended these factors. Unfortunately, it is not the only case left in question by the Ministry of Internal Affairs that is lacking but, rather, a vastly extensive legalization of the Ministry of Health and some things that have actually become completely incomprehensible not to come here to the council, including the U.S. bills that have been there for years to forbid discrimination in the labour market and other such self - righteous legislation that the rights of disabled people are the same as those of other people in the country. Therefore, I would like to use this opportunity to encourage the government to make it clear which way to go, it is working on the same methodology in both key measures of the case, and not least the Ministry of Health to take over, but as soon as this bill is being thanked for this bill, a new member of state with the last case on hand, i.e. to monitor the implementation of the contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u99	Madam President. I'd like to welcome the attitude of this bill, and especially the aspect of what is involved in removing barriers to our finally validation or validating the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. It's been quite a long walk with us, and it's really not possible to start shoving up sleeves and trying to finish it. It was attempted to develop during the last terms, and to some extent, the results of this work are now being made manifest. But I think the last speaker, w. paritaprevir Hjövar's Hjörvar was correct when he mentioned that there is still a considerable contribution to the social legislation in the area of the disabled, even though this is being handled in the important matter of legal law that is being heard by the State Department. Of course, though there is a highest opinion here, the only thing we can quickly see is that the work was carefully done. In his history, a minister mentioned something and made answers and discussions. I think, first of all, the lead of the bill is interesting. It is explained that in 2012 the State Department took the initiative to meet up with human rights, and then there was the shape of an ambitious national program on human rights. Then the Minister of the Interior, what? paritaprevir The jealous son of Jónasson, was very interested in that work, and perhaps no less his assistant, Halla Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and we who sat with the scurvy. Senator, now the highest. Minister, of course, in the government, he followed the case because he gave information about that work, and he needed the help, the financial resources, and the like, to get things going. On the other hand, I find the lead in this too remarkable in the sense that part of it, i.e. that of what is rooted in this work, of meetings that are arranged for toleration, or of those who have been under compulsion, of caregivers, professionals, and stakeholders. In other words, it begins with conferences and consultations at the root of the matter. This led to further cooperation and meetings and informal consultation groups, it ended with some form of discussion to minister in various indications, etc. This makes me feel like an example, and it would be better for me to see in the reports more primes behind them, including such a process. Then, in an open process, you will be able to comment on, as is the case. About understanding that point, I understood the most. A minister so that as to the validation or legalization of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled persons, only the monitoring factor to be completed by the State Department was left behind. Of course, it would be fascinating to find information related to this matter, where the work as a whole is, to see if anyone has an overview of it. It is now that we have been asking about this, and most of the answers have been the same, that they are going over and comparing legislation, and that we see what needs to be changed here and there. Second, regarding reports or tips from the European Commission reports on torture or prevention of torture and inhumane and disrespectful treatment, it can also be understood that this is a complete and complete meets with the Commission's indications after her visit to Iceland and the comments it has made, which are mainly attributed to the specific requirements of the legal law and the execution of commitments on the basis of them, which is not surprising that a comment has been made and has been discussed for a long time. There is no need to discuss how serious a measure of freedom, regardless of how difficult it is to make a solution that is best handled and never beyond what is inevitable. I notice in some respects regarding the transfer or implementation of the case, from the Ministry to the county service, that it is particularly appropriate for them to delegate to one designated county office. This is in line with the recent developments that have been going on and done well, that specialise certain county offices and give the work they do in that very specialized or specialized, for example. Goodly regarding the careful implementation of payment on the misdeeds to those responsible for the State's household were severely treated. I suppose the Ministry has set down some administrative committees and would be pleased to know where they can see it being saved into the new and reorganized environment of the administrative bodies, where they have been reduced, as we know. Finally, a few words about what was discussed earlier about the construction arrangement in the case of forced care. I find the information on page 15 very interesting. 10 In a report with the bill, the apparent rapid trend between years, starting in 2013/2014, that the requests have largely moved from members to social services or equivalent representatives in the rural areas. This happens only in one year, which is very interesting, because both channels have been good, as they have been lately. You wonder what's going on there, is that the discussion, is it just that people may not have realized that they had an alternative to doing this? That's a lot to think about, for I certainly know that this has been very difficult for families in which the people themselves have been doing this, often with a very difficult aftereffects in that family. All of us are known to be among friends, relatives, schoolmates, or other places where such things have happened. This is something I like about it, and in itself, there is evidence to support the interaction as the highest. In fact, a minister suggests, to make it a general rule that these are social authorities, while the rest is permitted in exceptional circumstances that may be a reason. But I think a little bit about the reasoning presented, that it is not always possible for the social authorities to take care of the case on weekends and on public holidays. Is it good enough that our system isn't active 24 hours a day? Do not need to be some sort of rear shift or something secure, at least in the largest communities? That should not be overworked. Now, in general, these issues are worked together in large areas where there are not enough people behind them to run this into a member of the country, areas behind are usually quite large. It should not be overworked to make sure that some kind of channel was open 24 hours a day, a year around us. Then it should be even less necessary to test the exceptions that the candidates themselves could apply the request, which in itself they do not necessarily have reason to rule out as long as the alternative is always available and as long as men are well informed and are well informed that there is an opportunity to communicate, to seek help, and to let such parties take care of this. It is clear that the immediate caregivers are involved, but there is nothing missing, even though social authorities care to make the request, simply because the information on the situation generally comes from the family of the involved, although it can, of course, happen by other means, such as that the social authorities get it right into their arms. Often, though, it is likely that there is a spouse or a relative or friends who first realizes that such a procedure is at hand. But there is a huge difference between not having to stand up for it, signing the request, and being responsible for it as such, and that is no longer necessary. For my part, being no special expert on this, I'm inclined to believe that the way the bill sets out is fine or that it's probably a good idea, for at least I'm also impressed that I didn't steal permanently. I'm more than ready to go beyond that stuff than our Uncle Norses, for it comes from here that they have just received comments about not always having these things some temporary resources with extensions. Madam President. This is what I just wanted, and I'm not going to extend the discussion any more on my part.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u100	Mr. President. Hv. A senator rightly gave commendation to the method of work being prepared for this bill, and it included bringing together all those in some way who can relate to difficult matters of this sort; doctors, social workers, caregivers; and most certainly those who have suffered the burden of being forced or disbarred. I'd like to think back to what happened. A senator to see a group of people who suffered. paritaprevir At the time he held the office of the Minister of the Interior, the count of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson was discussed at the time in a government we both owned. Hv. paritaprevir The 100 - year - old son of Jónasson brought that matter into the government because we had received what we thought was quite a comment that Iceland did not have a commitment to the European Convention on Protection on torture. That's why the response was so sharp. Because of what? A senator wondered what causes a leap between 2013 and 2014 in moving from family to family to the social side, this is followed directly by this group's activities and the discussion he raised, such as at the time. A senator will no doubt remember that this led to considerable publicity in the media about these matters. As mentioned here, a very commendable conference was held by the Ministry, and that is the clear, open discussion that led to these changes, in my opinion, because the emphasis was clear on the point that is one of the most positive, two of the most positive, in this bill, though I believe to go further, to transfer the mood of the petition to the social sector with the union.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u101	Madam President. I cut this down in my speech and was trying to review it together, I'll bet we can think of a few things to remember, me and the other. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. That's exactly right, and I was reminded that this came on the board of governments more than once, and we observed the progress of these matters, which was good, and there was a great ambition in meeting and getting rid of comments on the conduct of these cases on our part. Of course, it is not something we would like to sit on, that we are making comments that these matters are not in order, and most of all, we would like to be admonished, at least Some of them, from the European Council and its agreements on human rights. Very likely, the publicity that became considerable and the movement that established these issues by conferences, press coverage, and other factors contributed to the better understanding that they were able to take this course along with the situation, and it is very well understood. Perhaps some of the so - called social authorities themselves have met up with the discussion that has often developed about how difficult it is for the workers to stand in it themselves, and somehow the door is more open to taking over the matter, and it is very well. I think we're supposed to be happy that we're here. I agree with what was presented in the discussion that there were certainly more times being done here during spring than with trying to finish this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u102	Madam President. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much. I welcome this matter, and I think it contains a number of things that all look for in happiness, and most of them I agree with, perhaps with one or two exceptions. I was also impressed by the insight and caution that came from a speech spoken by the highest degree. Minister. I believe the case is in good hands with her. Of course, such issues are not political, but they involve what may be most sacred in the lives of any individual who is his freedom. Hence, when it comes to these matters, people must walk very slowly. But it seems to me that the whole thing is good, from the first step in time. paritaprevir The Ögmundur - year - old son of Jónasson, when the case was brought about by a terrible necessity, and to this day that humans had taken care of it. When I spoke of a bad need, it was so that domestic and foreign organizations had pointed out that the laws we have so far were not fully in accordance with international agreements and that they even seduced us. Our way of validating or following the events of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment Even so, the comment was made by members of the international community. Together it all suggested that there was a way in which all those involved were called in some way and there were suggestions that are found here and that are very positive. True, this group also made further suggestions, and it would be interesting to hear the highest. A minister explains whether she is planning to implement them later. It was specifically stated in the bill that this was only part of the suggestions made there. That's where what I think is the most important thing is independence. A minister takes the lead on behalf of the Icelanders not always to follow the example of foreigners, but I feel that we often hang too hard in the back -- I don't want to say, "The Norwegian and Dana assholes, but it's now that men look very often to condemn them there. " This is a bigger and longer step to the right than e.g. Witches do. I think it's very important that this bill doesn't allow permanent delinquency. It's that mine knows very much. The second most important factor is the most cautious path. A minister marches between those who may wish for forced care. I think it's because of itself--I want to make that confession that I didn't think it was a reasonable way to the highest. A minister suggested here in the bill, but I thought only again under her fine talk on this section of the law, and I concluded that it was at least One Mass worth looking at that way. Yet, I wholeheartedly agree with it. A minister said that this is one of the things the committee needs to consider. There's a very small hurry of handling this bill. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon said that humans may do little better than dive into it and try to take care of it on springtime. Now I'm not quite aware of how desperate people are to agree with this, but it's the kind of thing people are supposed to be doing. The thing that's perhaps the most important thing to know is that what has been tried at least is missing. in the past, that it was the lot of those in most cases to want to be incarcerated. Of course, it was because of a terrible necessity, but there were terrible consequences in many cases as well. That is why it is very positive that the emphasis has been on being a member of the local community as a request, at least officially, after a person experiences such a loss of freedom. I am that opinion, or I was before the highest point. The minister gave his speech, that it should take the steps to the full. What made me doubt was the most excellent argument. Ministers for possibly a position in small rural areas where there are too weak social services in order to be able to perform such drastic measures. But then I'm going to point it to the highest. A minister to see what is behind the table on page 20. 10 i.e. if you examine where 30% of these cases lie where there is still a desire for forced care by the caregivers. Is it out in the country in these small rural communities or not? If the highest. A minister concludes that this is not the case, but I feel that the way is clear to me to take it completely out of the law. It might be said that the main benefit is that of doing so. paritaprevir Helgi's Hjörvar made a joyful subject in his speech; thus, they are evading barriers to the validation of the Convention on the rights of disabled people. Of course, for Iceland, who sees himself as one of the prospective states in terms of human rights struggle, it is important that at least the information coming from foreign organisations has been handled. At least I have to confess that I was shocked and had no idea that this was the case when we changed our legislation on the basis of evidence from those who monitor European treaties for torture. I'd never have put Iceland in this kind of context, but it was true anyway. Also important are minor changes made in this bill, such as that it is now required to seek the opinion of a confidant, if you believe that it is needed before impairment occurs. Previously, only a review was sought before it had taken place. It also matters from my point of view that there is a demand for more evidence when a case is taken before a judge to take some legal action. According to this bill, I see no better than that a judge who was previously authorized to demand evidence is now obliged to seek them. We are familiar with natural media examples of this, not very old, since it could have changed everything if it had been on the court. Fourth, I feel that it is a step toward giving advice to both the ones saved under compulsion and also to his family or to those standing by. It is important, and then it connects with what I was going to do for a bit of reproof, that is, 14 gr. which is about counsellors. It speaks of them, i.e. A confidential physician, or officer of nurses or doctors and confidants, who receive those who are thus deprived of their freedom and who are to be saved in an institution, is obliged to alert their advisers if they have counseling. I believe that there is so much and strong an intervention in life, awareness and independence of an individual that it should be required of the government to order those who don't have such. Often it is so that if people in this situation are so confused that they have not been hired by counselors - they may also well be that even if they are offered counsellors, they can say goodbye to whenever they want, so there are natural legal laws now, that the person would not want to see such counseling. Still, it needs to be available, and there must be some individual individual who has been appointed as counselor of such a person, and he knows that it is always open to him to get advice. It is a kind of confidant who, in effect, is to defend his right, counseling the person with whom there is a loss of freedom often experiences as a severe struggle between the system and himself as an individual. Then it may be important that a counselor of this sort is available. These were the basics that I wanted to come out here. There are, first of all, two indications from me that it is an obligation to order a person who is deprived of his freedom by forced advisers. Second, I think that a very careful consideration should be given to the results of a study of the 30% of forced stakes due to the request of the candidates whether to take the step to the full and rule out that route completely. It is the natural poison that destroys in all places that are involved in such a matter. We all know this, and most of us are sure to have, both members of the council and individuals, come across such matters many times. V.E.G. Ministers well observed that one of the goals of this bill is to reduce the number of forced meats. I'd appreciate it if it was the highest. A minister in his final speech here explained to me how the bill should reduce the number of forced care. I realize that the figure I used to use here, but it is mainly based on the rights that such persons have in accordance with current democratic regulations, of course, support during forced care. Here is one of the goals, to increase the support as well as that of forced care. I ran into it in the bill that, indeed, those who have been caught in such shocks offer advice after that, but is there any other support offered him in some way? If so, I would like to be the highest. A minister told me. And one last thing, if ever. A minister might answer the question that was tiny, in fact, two things. It is a major step to transfer the registry of self-sustained persons and their guardians or sponsors and advisors from the Ministry to the National Book. Still, I wondered: " Shouldn't it have been set aside for a certain office, such as the surgeon general's accustomed to using such confidential information? Finally, the final question is: A minister is careful and a somewhat clever way to try to prevent positions that arise following the request for forced care, and it is said in the report that they do not have to do so formally. But might it be that, in some way, a person who desperately looks for information on who put him in such a position as a natural microtype might demand to know who was asking for the authority to use such instruments? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u103	A respectable president. I want to begin by celebrating the fact that this bill is being passed, there is a tremendous step toward validating the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, as the report shows. I have to say, as it is, when I read the bill, I felt a little bit like when we were having a hard time. A global and educational committee at the site where the jail is being built on Hólmsuk. It's very interesting, but it's got a face of severity because here we're creating a system to take people away from freedom, and it's not going to be more serious than that. Because of that alone, I immediately find it a very positive and very important step no longer allowing permanent delinquency. One thing that surprised me a little about reading this is how much the sources are really in the current law. Another thing I noticed, and when I read it, when I read it, is that in the current legal law, a judge can be disbarred if necessary, if he is immoderate or overindulging in addictive drugs, he is not able to control his personal condition or his money. This came as a surprise to me, and I would benefit greatly by knowing more whether this has ever been used and under what circumstances you would use it, in some way I could not imagine. Fortunately, in the bill, this process is to be fixed by making this directive active only if the a-joint or c-aide of the same article is applicable, but it is the case if the individual is unable to control his personal condition or financial resources due to mental decompensation, sensibility or psychiatric illness or due to other severe health problems, such as the C- team, by permission of the president: ▪ If because of physical inadequacy, health problems, or other bad health problems, he cannot control his personal condition or his money, and because of this he may require his own legal detriment. I wonder, however, by this change, as positive as she now is on her own, why she's needed another level, i.e. as she shows up in the bill, the b- team that then speaks in the bill, by permission of the President: If, because of alcohol or drug abuse, he is not able to control his personal life or money and any of the reasons listed in the a and c joints apply to the individual. I wonder when you'd use the B-party if it's going to have to go after the a- team and the c-party anyway. Isn't the a-and-c- force enough? I wondered about this because it gives me a little Spanish to see that addiction and drugs are the basis for this sort of catharsis. I think it's strange, and it's worth looking at specifically how it's come to be there. I find it very strange in the same way as I would feel it would be odd if it were especially in the laws of mental illness or of the nature of the dementia that would be essential to the detriment of freedom. I think it's strange that there's such accurate implementation of the reasons behind this. The prince must be the inability of the individual to have legal rights and, of course, that it is in his best interests, and most important, that it is absolutely necessary. There's something else I just want to come on in this relationship. We must bear in mind that there is little or no error in these matters. When it comes to prison sentences or other forms of punishment, we assume that from time to time things will go wrong. The evidence is misleading, someone lies in court, something like that. Sooner or later, something will go wrong, and we've got a lot of processes to figure it out, which is better, as we should have. But there are certain things society has decided not to do at all because failure is nothing. One of the finest examples of this is the death penalty, the reason we do not use capital punishment in some civilized states is that failure is nothing; we do not allow mistakes. As soon as there is one mistake, the phenomenon has ceased to be righteous under any circumstances. At least that's my attitude on the death penalty and hopefully as many people as possible. The failure rate here, provided that there is temporary delinquency, may not be anything, but I would still suggest it was very close to being nothing. The nature of the case, when a person is disbarred on grounds that are not considered legitimate, through this process, with such laws, I would expect the individual's trust in society to be probably completely irreformable. I wondered how that person could ever gain confidence in the community or take care of the closest or the system again. I try to put myself in that fantasy, and somehow I don't see how that would be possible. That's why I'm suggesting that we be careful here, but when it comes to some kind of operation, like when it comes to jailing criminals for crime. It's different. Happily, we expect a mistake to take place, as we must, so that failure may not be quite nothing. But I do have an agreement because I really feel that it should be nothing. It has to be totally bulletproof. In fact, I don't think this is allowed to go crazy ever. One of the last things I'm going to say about this other very important and good things is that I feel, for the reasons I've mentioned here, this requires a serious review of the matter. That's why I feel a little uncomfortable how late it is for the council, but I'm grateful it's come; I expect it and assume it's because it's done very well. This is something that I think everyone involved in decisions must be sincerely convinced of, i.e. that every tiny step in the bill is in the right direction, and it takes time. It takes time for the committee, it takes Congress hours, and I assume everyone will agree on this. Admittedly, when it comes to the committee, it will be useful to get the story started. I look forward to reading the reviews because it's a subject that I feel is as specific as a prison but it's important that you make the most of it. In particular, I think it is important that we know very well, all involved in making decisions on this matter, whether and what has gone wrong in the past. I think that's probably what we should have in mind. What I'm about to focus on is knowing for sure when people thought this system was going crazy, why and how it was supposed to be different from what it was in fact. I suspect there's more to it than just to mention gawking through all that information because something tells me that there's a lot of difficult moral opinions and maybe there's more to it. But that in itself tells something when all the facts are not presented in a matter like this. There are other factors in this matter, apart from the seriousness of the nature that I would like to look at on a committee in particular. There are questions about telethon and publication. I'm afraid to take it exactly how I feel about the changes in the bill. I think they're simply for the better, but as I say, it's very important to me that every step is in the right direction and that everyone agrees very much on that. In fact, I feel that this kind of law should only agree with 100% more in itself, anyway, in a perfect world, because it is. There's really no more I have to say about this matter right now. I expect a lot of discussion to be made on the committee and hopefully in the community. Hopefully, people are interested in keeping these matters completely clear. I encourage all members of the Parliament to handle this matter as slowly as possible without damaging the important interests that are at stake for the people who will be involved and their caregivers. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u104	Madam President. Some nations in our continents have out of their history until 1934 a great warning about keeping several central files. This includes a list of legal delinquency and forced care, and a list of their caregivers, counselors, and confidants. It is likely because it is felt that these developments are beneficial, that they are for the benefit of the target. The bill assumes that this previously held record in the Ministry of Internal Affairs will be transferred to national records. I think there's a change, but I'd like to ask. A senator: Does he believe that such a record is necessary and justified? He may feel that it is better placed in another office, which is especially lacking in confidentiality and may have more experience than a national registry, i.e. A surgeon's office?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u105	A respectable president. In short, do I feel that way? I also singled out my speech. The senator, who may have been better qualified to do so, is not used by national personnel to provide very sensitive information and to have very much knowledge, from what I understand, in the field of information, and in defending information. I just don't have the nerve to take it here and now, but I think it's one of the things important to look into. In fact, I generally feel that there is more and more reason to pause when questions arise about where to store information, who can access them, etc. Because, as I say so many times, information technology makes everything easier, including human rights violations. Lectures happen on a regular basis simply because there are a lot of people around the world who make mistakes - sometimes they are not just as careful with information or computer equipment as they should or should do if they had the proper knowledge. In some way in this new world, we will have to use this gasty information technology to expect things to go wrong from time to time. It puts our obligation in a new context, that we be careful about information, and know why we use what it is and what it is like if something goes wrong. That's extremely important. In view of the nature of these information that I expect to be, if not always in some medical sense, I think it is more appropriate for the governor to store them, but it is also a matter of processes. It is a matter of which events must have access to this information and what available communication is already there and all of it. This is one of many factors that I find very important to the committee to take time to examine fully.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u106	Madam President. If it's piazza, then what? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, thinks that this kind of information may be more relevant to a national file than to the governor's office, I'll take it just fine. He is far superior to me in appreciating it. A national record may well have better defenses. Then there's a question. A senator, perfectly legitimate. How important is such information? I would count to see from the point of view of what is recorded there that the tolerance of freedom -- at least. In some cases, be extremely important.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u107	A respectable president. That's very important. Today, the system has some important information, often and times it is absolutely inevitable, especially when it comes to health information and the like. But when it comes to this sort of thing, I think the information is as personal as it can be. We need to imagine that the information can become difficult because some computer system has not been properly updated or because millions of people around the world are always playing with them. This is the reality we live in today. We always have to do bad food. It may be embarrassing, not so hard, when it comes to such delicate information. Of course, one would like to say that there is no danger that such delicate information will go into circulation. Another fine example is now being discussed. A top-of-the-art Board of Education on a different issue, but it's about registration of information on children in school. You may need to gather information about your children's well - being and social situation - and again: It is usually as personal as possible. Then we have to ask, " What is the harm if this goes on and what on earth are we going to do about it? ' Above all, though, how will we prevent that from happening at first? This will always be bigger and bigger questions over time. It is a common misunderstanding that computer security is beginning to improve in the world, just as the speed of computers and memory volumes are increasing, so is safety being increasing, but it is, in effect, vice versa. The safety in computers and on the Internet has been getting worse fast in the past few years. 2014 is the most terrible year of computer security in memory. This will be bigger and bigger questions, and we need to be more careful with what we gather more information because it is so overwhelmingly beneficial.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u108	V.E.G. President. I thank you for the fine discussion that has taken place on the bill discussed here. I'm going to try to deal with the questions and comments that came to the point where I can do in my final talk. Some point is that I think that they need to be examined further in the data that I don't have here, and with them premonition that my memory isn't failing. First of all, the matter was made known to other ships. However, I stressed that it would be done at this spring meeting, both because the case was presented in the suit that it was safe to put forward after a very great deal of work, as we have discussed and I'm going to get closer to it. And as one of the important factors is that the agreement on the rights of disabled persons is made manifest here at the council and, on the other hand, on the part of the State Department, I stress that this work is working properly, and therefore I felt that the matter was being made available at the spring Summit. I'd like to say, then, that the procedure that led to the bill and the procedure and meeting that were in the last term because of this case--I'd like to say that this is exactly the case of the perennial nature which is across all fences, this is a matter of basic human rights. V.E.G. ... thenthe Minister of the Minister of the Interior, eh? Jónasson And I believe that it has worked well, and I know that those who have been working with the Ministry feel that this process of consultation has been very effective. I have no doubt that it will also help with what it is that I know in a good costume when it enters the council. I'm just going to go back to what was discussed with the contract about disabled people. As noted above, one issue remains in the Ministry, which is the monitoring factors involved. They are now in progress, and they work together with a considerable number of departments. I believe that the Ministry of Health is doing well, and recently I believe the Ministry of Internal Affairs informed a health committee of how this validation works. We will now consider in the Ministry of Internal Affairs to get on with this final aspect of the matter in our case. Then, about the questions, comments, and suggestions that have come from this case, that is, like, why. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's Stetggi said that the families will never be removed, and the loved ones will always be the closest, the closest, and always in trouble somewhere. We know that it can never be taken out completely by parentheses. But there are opinions, as if I've traced them here and crossed, that it's important that families get away from this most difficult decision. There is no doubt in my mind that the discussion that has been gained because of this has led to more family efforts to reach social services. I have no doubt in my mind that this is the case. But I may prefer to have my opinion beyond what is said in a comment on the unique laws of the law, just on the basis of what I have read on this subject. In fact, we know about smaller rural areas that this is not the case with rural society being on duty on account of these issues. We may need to consider this aspect of the matter. But we know that in all the smallest rural communities, these are difficult, and they need to be looked at. Then, from my limited understanding, do I want to reason that because of how close families might be to a family in some case - the question is, do we want to rule it out? - come to these things. And there's that tight line. I propose this as my suggestion. You're absolutely right here, it's a different way. I think it's a safe way, but I know that these views will appear before the committee that it should go further. For the chart on page 18. 10 That's one of the things I'd have to get a closer look at which societies are preferably underneath, and I think we can get the answers to that. I had answered these 30%, but we're talking about the communities that don't have a weekend shift or holidays. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson asked about 14th degree. In fact, it was based on a tip that came in a narrative process that involved linking a watchkeeper with doctors and counselors. It is now that a government counselor works for the Ministry, and it is paid from a government fund. Since there is an impersonal person, that relationship exists, but it was being opened up more clearly to the fact that he was in a close relationship at that difficult time. It's not yet decided - I'm not taking it completely in a row - what the county office will do with it. The office is now considering which office it will be. We've just been through a lot of changes in the county settlements. I think the county is very capable of holding this mission. It will be the next task and the result of the legislation, whether now or only later, that the company's office is being determined by the bill. I'd also like to let it show that a great deal of things, as perhaps a part of understanding, are natural in the capital area, and that will test the community services of the capital area most. For example, there is now a agreement between Reykjavíkurburg and the Land Hospital on procedure. So people are walking and developing constantly in this delicate group of subjects. Regarding how we feel that we can achieve our goal of reducing the amount of forcedness, it is quite possible to allow space to improve the quality of the individual when the process begins. Therefore, it is suggested that the number of hours will be increased from 48 to 72 hours so that at that point, the need for these big steps can be determined. We believe that by sharpening and sharpening the initial steps, we will be able to reduce and we can better assess the individual's condition before taking such crucial steps as these. I just want to be very brief about a national file or a surgeon. We believe that a national record is very capable of holding this up, especially because of the information security there is. There's also a way to hook the file to lawmakers. It's also important. The Ministry assessment is that the National Registry is a town for doing this, and it is used to dealing with sensitive information. Of course, they must always be looked at in the light of those factors. Because of what? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson also asked if information on who's been asked for the saving is possible based on administrative and information laws. That's what I'm talking about. Perhaps only with regard to the change in alcohol and drug addiction, there were not many cases on the basis of current laws, so there was a complete amount of material to make changes there. I agree with what I see as a matter of course. When it came to that group, a senator tore. Of course, those who are sick, we want to see them treated, and it's where we try to direct them in the community when necessary. Then it's always that way, and it may be the problem with life that this must always be an integrated assessment, and it's an absolute emergency. It's very difficult to legalize. There must be guidance, but it can never be pacified exactly what situations are and what the person looks like in this situation. The law needs to create this frame, it needs to be strict, it must be very clear, but it will always be the evaluation of those who have come to know whether the situation has become a need for this fateful decision. Other than that, I want to thank you for this fine discussion. I know the case will get careful publicity on that. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. I reiterate what I've said, of course, that you'd prefer to have had the case done earlier in this council, but I think it's good to have a discussion at this council right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u109	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in weapons law, No. 16/1998. The bill is proposed to recommend the implementation of two European vessels, Directive 2007/23/EC of 23 May 2007, for the implementation of fireworks products and for the implementation of the Commission's Directive 2008/3/43/EC from April 4, 2008, on the basis of the Directive 93/15/EEC, a system for recognition and trace of commercial explosives. In addition, changes in the set up of targets are recommended. These are legal modifications but no changes to the materials above are proposed. The above directives have been adopted in the European Economic Area Convention on Decisions by the European Commission No. 119/2010 of November 10, 2010, of the change in II. The addition of the EEA contract from May 2, 1992. It should be noted that the EFTA Court concluded in the late autumn that Iceland had failed to introduce the above directives in Icelandic, and it is therefore urgent that the directives be introduced the first. By decree of the European Parliament and of the Council 2007/23/EC of 23 May 2007 to launch fireworks, safety stations must be met in order to be placed on the market. The directive's regulations apply to standard fires, as well as ground fires. The Directive states that the European Union is permitted to provide common standards, basic safety requirements as market fires in the countries must be met. In addition, all fires must be CE compatible to confirm that the product meets its basic requirements and that the measures specified in the respective directives have been used accordingly. Icelanders have met comparable demands regarding other products, e.g. toys and other such products. The aim of the directive is to provide free transport of fireworks products in the internal market as well as to ensure strong human health and the public safety and safety of consumers as well as the protection of the environment. Thus, the rules are to ensure that the consumer can be sure that fireworks bought here will meet all the same security standards and are produced according to the same standards regardless of the seller. Therefore, it is suggested by a bill that fires should be CE compatible. It should be noted that according to the information published in the media earlier in the winter, all fires introduced by the National Emergency Protection Association for the past New Year's Eve are marked by the CE correlation. It should be noted that the accident - control society of Landsbourg has a total of 8,885% market share. Then the directive recommends the objective responsibility of certain immigrants. Manufacturers are required to ensure that fireworks are compatible with specific safety requirements as recommended in Annex I of the Directive, but if the manufacturer does not have a residence in the European Union, immigrants should ensure that their manufacturer has met their obligations according to the directive or assume the duties required. It is proper that such responsibilities be handled in the law. Finally, the directive has to do with marketing surveillance, the markings of fires, etc. It is suggested by the bill that the marketing watch will be committed to the Netostry, which already works for most of the marketing monitoring projects laid down in the European Union Directives and has been adopted into the Convention on the European Economic Area. It is then necessary to introduce a new definition of fires, as well as suggest that the law's penalty should be adjusted according to the directive's requirements. A respectable president. The Commission Directive 2008/43/EC of 4 April 2008 to implement, according to the Council Directive 93/15/EEC, a system for identification and trace of systemic explosives is set up a consistent system for the traceability of explosives to general use. Importantly, explosives are identified if you have accurate and adequate explosives files at all phases of the break-in chain. Therefore, the person who makes, imports, or stores with explosives is suggested to make sure that explosives, including its smallest units, are specifically identified by the unique characteristics and that the information on explosives is recorded according to the specific regulations in the Regulation. Thus, for the purpose of preventing misuse and theft and helping the police to trace the origin of missing and stolen explosives, it must be possible to identify and trace explosives from the site of manufacture and in the market. Clearly, this can't apply to all types of explosives, such as explosives that are unwrapped or in a pump truck for direct disposal of the bomb's hole. There is no reason to review individual articles of the bill regarding the introduction of the vessels and regulations that are only legal and are relevant for the transport of laws to a specific section. It should be noted, however, that this is not a requirement more than the directives are required. A respectable president. I hope that my tongue won't be much short of feet, but I've explained the subject of the bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u110	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the case report. It's better than it has to be said that we in the United States are very eager to introduce European regulations in our good country and sharpen aspects of our weapons laws. I wanted to ask the minister for a unique identity, what that means exactly, and also whether this unique identity applies to those who fill their cars with explosives, as the minister could. Perhaps it was not the content of the directive itself that led me to ask for an answer to the minister. Sadly, we have to say that here we have gone through a very bad situation in connection with the arms of police and national health services in the country, shopping, or gift - offering cases from other countries that have become a disgrace to us both within the country and abroad, and a completely unacceptable framework for all the cases that have come up in the past winter. I wanted to take this opportunity to ask the highest. A minister would be working on some sort of review of these entire legislation, not just the implementation of this unique directive, but the support of the law frame and the procedure around these cases in general by the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u111	A respectable president. The answer is positive, an overall review of weapons laws is being made. However, I did not consider it impossible to, since we have reached the stage in the introduction of these types to be judged on account of our late fall, to wait to bring this aspect of the case to a complete conclusion on the arms laws, and therefore chose to break the matter in two, and to bring in first, in turn, the implementation of the arms laws that follow. I especially want to thank you. A senator for asking me what unique meaning is. My understanding is that there is only one single letter or number in the sense of goods. I dare not go far beyond that, but there are natural strict rules about meaning. My understanding is that this is what I'm talking about. I can't promise you that, but I'm expecting it to be reduced to the completion of the overall review and that bill will appear at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u112	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalise a change in the law on civil treatment, criminal treatment laws, the law on filing, the law on bankruptcy and the courts. The bill suggests some changes that aim to simplify and speed up the treatment of judicial cases and to increase efficiency. Build many of the proposals and proposals given here by a court order staff that has the responsibility to examine the legal laws or the internal rules of the courts could bring about an increase in the simplicity and efficiency of judicial action, resulting in practical management. With increasing pressures on courts, it is necessary to look for ways to avoid unnecessary handling and thus increase effectiveness without affecting the quality and safety of the court treatments. A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, the main subject of the bill is a change in effectiveness in handling judicial matters. It is quite a variety of changes, and it is not necessary to review each of these. So, the proposals will be well thought-in in the General and Education Committee. But it is proper to tap on a big one. It's set in paragraphs 3 and 20. the bill that the Court's Council establishs regulations on the form and absorption of court documents, including the maximum length of policy and covering of a plain, as well as charges and reviews. These rules try to deal with the trend that the descriptions of the facts and the reason for the case are unnecessaryly long, and in reality, in opposition to the decrees of legal law, to the contrary the descriptions of these factors as well as to the oral language principle. Then there will be a change in the treatment of lawsuits to the Supreme Court, which will bring considerable expense and effort to the local courts. Thus it is suggested that the person in charge of a ruling or any other judicial act personally send the highest court the evidence of the matter that he considers necessary and provide the data cuttures of the data, such as Article 13. The bill. Today, this is a project on the hands of the district. These changes are provided in relation to measures 5 and 6 (see paragraphs 5 and 6). the bill, which suggests that in all cases an assessment should not be made. The legal arrangement for criminal treatment is adjusted and permitted to conclude cases where the accused will not be judged, as is stated in Article 24. The bill. In this way, a number of cases, such as drunk driving violations, could be handled quickly. This should not be the case with the legal security of the defendant, since it is conditional that he has been filed with charges and obliging him to appear before the court, as well as with the possibility of hearing such a case again. The change in the law of conduct, as shown by 31 st. The bill is also designed to improve efficiency, but it suggests that a judge can arrange a decision - making request if it is taken in all respects, which is a simpler way than to enunciate a reasoned decision. Other changes are proposed that do not have the primary objective of improving effectiveness in the treatment of these events. Changes in reporting of children are provided, as is Article 18. The bill. The principle suggests that a report of a child under 15 years of age becomes a main policy in a special setting not in a courthouse. This will only be possible if your child's interests require it, such as that it is not possible to report in this way unless he has a serious problem for the child. Changes are provided regarding the release of judgments and specifically the publication of local judgments, as is stated in Article 34. the bill, but now it is strictly a law to be found in the courts of the Supreme Court. The Court's Council is also charged with setting further rules on the publication of reviews and removal descriptions. Then, when the condemned one is passed on, according to Article 29. The bill. Here it is suggested that certain family members, if specifically indicated, be able to request a hearing for a return of criminal matters that would meet certain criteria. Take advantage of those who ask for a hearing that is the same as a court of law. A respectable president. This bill was negotiated with the Council of Justice, Iceland's Law, Iceland's Court of Justice and Supreme Court. As mentioned earlier, the main purpose of simplifying the treatment of judicial cases is also to suggest changes not based solely on that goal. Clearly, with increased pressures on the courts, there must be a way to improve effectiveness in handling the situation, as I could. Is an experiment with this bill. A respectable president. I have now explained the main subject of the bill. So I suggest that the bill will be following this discussion. A full commission and a 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u113	Madam President. It's half-hearted that you think of a discussion on this matter when you see who has come to the agreement of the bill, a judiciary, a legal firm and a judge's society, and yet I have to stop only orders on the release of judgments and the warrants I understand to be new, that at the district level, a judge can only recite oral decision and bring a ruling in a book, so that instead of writing a ruling or judgment, I can bring some kind of entry into a book and verbal support, and then wait and see if the case will be violated and if the case is written. Now I understand that this may be simple, and a lot of cases will end there if they are not appealed and the final result is obtained. So there is no need to complicate matters with some kind of essay. However, this is so that someone may be placed in some way or until a week later or whenever it is done. This is also shown in paragraph 13. the bill that says that if a case has been appealed and sent to the Supreme Court, a judge should not have written a written order, do it within a week, and give it to the accuser. If the highest. A minister could do better than that. How much do people think they're working on this? Is this a significant cost of work worth it or is this way justified? In some respects, there seems to be a more looser disposal of the case at the regional level than this has been so far. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u114	A respectable president. I have been assured that by making such a change, there is no danger to being put in a position of justice. There has been an exit point for all the work involved in reviewing these legislation. Like what? A senator mentioned us with the best possible option to review it. This is important that the law could not be applied if the decision included the final outcome of a case, such as dismissing a case. It is important to determine whether this method is preferable. Other than that, I have to say, I'm not afraid that if there's a releaser, it'll be a great deal. I think people are just trying to cut off the bait and simplify things to work without any assurance of security.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u115	Madam President. I have no doubt that all of this was handled well by the most skeptics. I understood law eight. so that it was for the simplicity of my children's children, that it was a law of working, namely, the law of forced labor. Instead of passing a written decision on a relatively simple matter, the judge might make it sit, as it says, to record a statement in a book of judgment and give oral evidence to the conclusion. I thought the thought was to save the written job if the other is considered sufficient and then go to it if the case is appealed, etc. I have understood it correctly, and then I assume that in this case it must be a lot of savings that there is a right to relax the demands in this regard or whatever we say. I'd also like to ask, since I have time, into the re-enlightenment that we are familiar with during the past few years. I suppose it is to some extent the discussions that have occurred in the repercussions of Gudmund and Geir fiss. However, this is a general requirement for the future. I'm asking if there's anything to learn of the one and only big Gudmund and Geir fiss and its repertoire. It has now been a while since the Council finished, if I know correctly, a change that would be sufficient to solve the situation if the other had not arrived. I'm curious to know about the situation and whether it is correct to understand that this law will do in any comparable case in a case of resurgence, even if the sentence or judgment has been passed, i.e. that the other conditions of the reorganization were fulfilled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u116	A respectable president. Regarding the repercussion, the Ministry consulted a judicial committee that considered a reason to have such general regulations. Regarding specific matters. A senator asks that this case is in a formal process and has been brought in as far as two members of the deceased are concerned by the prosecutor, Davíð Þór Björgvinsson's son. Then there's a third case coming up at the Ministry. I assume it will all go on the same path. I think it's wise to have a general law of this kind, and I think I've introduced my views to them in the past winter. Then the matter was not established that it could be settled or made available at Congress; it was still on the loose end. I think it will be a good idea to have a general law of this sort when judgment is passed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u117	The President would like to inform the United Nations that a unique identity means that it consists of one vote. It's based on Alan Baddeley's memory theory. A simple identity is easier to remember, and it is faster to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u118	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct the genetic conversion of the Northern treaties and exchange of the dying. The bill suggests that the contract made on June 1, 2012, regarding the change in Iceland's contract, Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden from November 19, 1934, about genetics and exchanges in the dead. It is also suggested that the changing agreement receive laws in this country in the same way as the original agreement, as stated by law No. 108/1935. The Northern Treaty on DNA and exchange of the dying population into a citizen of one of the northern countries is at the time of their death in one of them. The Convention includes a specific compromise between national regulations and ensures compatibility in the treatment of such cases in the North countries. The new agreement was prepared on the scene of the Northern National Experts Committee on Family Rights. After that work began, the goal was to bring the content of the contract from 1934 to the present - day situation. At the later stage, it was also taken to coordinate its contents, depending on incidents, the new Council of the European Parliament in this field, which will commit Sweden and Finland from the implementation of the Regulation in August of this year. The Treaty includes the fact that the Northern countries will continue to be able to apply the Member States' terms of inheritance and will of those who were citizens of one of the states of the north as well as live in one of them at the time of their death, unless another leads from the above regulations for Sweden and Finland. The treaty will therefore continue to contribute to the simpler treatments and increased legal security in this area of the North countries. The major material change that the new contract has to do with the choice of rules of communication. The 1934 principle of the agreement is called a five - year rule that includes applying the rules of the home setting if the deceased lived there at least. Five years before you die. Otherwise, the rules of the state will be requested from the hands of the competent authorities. In accordance with the terms of the changing agreement, the principle remains to be applied to the rules of the home environment, but now a descendant will be authorized to issue a will for the application of state rules. Then the contracts are removed for the right mate to be placed in an exclusive home. Such special rules are no longer needed in the contract, where the surviving partners now have sufficient protection in the legislation of all Member States, as well as in which such regulations are considered to be poorly compatible with the provision of a legacy to address the rules used in the trade. A respectable president. I have now explained the main subject of the bill, so after this discussion, I suggest that it be referred to. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u119	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct the change of sailing laws, No. 34/1985, with subsequent changes. The bill primarily includes the introduction to Council Regulation and Council No. 392/2009 on improved transport responsibilities due to accidents in passenger transport, but it is also suggested to add a penalties for the implementation of Directive 2009/20/EC on the bail of shipping owners against seafood requirements. This directive was largely introduced into the country by law No. 46/2012, about the change in shipping laws, which failed to adopt the terms of the insurance insurance policy of donors to secure their ships and are recommended to be replaced by this bill. 392/2009 deals with transporting passengers and their luggage at sea. Its range of values is limited to ships in the crosslands and ships in the marine zones of Class A and B. Ships in national cruises is divided into four groups according to their seas, i.e. Marine areas A, B, C, and D may be explained by more demand for ships to be set for shipping in area A, while the mildest demand is made for shipping in the marine region of D. The largest of the ships that sail off the coasts of Iceland operate in the seas of C and D and thus fall outside its range of values. Of the ships that fall under the scope of the decree, there are General and Nautilus. The bill was made consult with the Association, Business Association, Tourism Association, Financial Corporation, and Business Organization. At that time, the bill was presented on the Ministry's Web and was given two weeks to comment. The bill has taken into account the comments of these individuals, which were on the way that no longer would be carried out than would be necessary at the introduction of the EEA types. It is then suggested in the bill to use the permission of the Regulation, which allows Member States to postpone its implementation. So the change will take place with A Class groups from December 30, 2016 and with Class B groups from December 30, 2018. The main changes to the implementation of the Regulation are as follows: 1st A passenger will bear objective responsibility for the loss of a passenger due to an incident at sea transport up to 250,000 SDR, and he is required to guarantee the cost. Accordingly, the responsibility for the ship's crew, a collision if a ship goes down or falls, explosions, or if a fire is on board, or a fault is on the ship. 2. A traveling merchant will be responsible for the loss of an individual's tools with impaired mobility. 3. A moving ticket responsible for the loss of an incident in sea transport should provide long - term improvements in order to meet the basic necessities of living. 5. A traveling overseer is obliged to inform passengers of their rights according to the regulations. I have now explained the basic subject of the bill and in other respects referred to comments that follow the bill. If the bill is legal, it's not a major influence in this country and is mainly limited to the construction of the earlier ships. Then the approved bill is not expected to call for monitoring beyond what is currently passed by the Grouping Agency. V.E.G. President. I have now finished my case and suggest that the bill be referred to at the highest level. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u120	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalise a change in the law on Transportation, the Transportation Office, No. 119/2012, as well as air travel laws, No. 60/1998, with subsequent changes. The bill consists of changes allowing Ministers to implement regulations relating to the European Air Safety Agency and the European Sea Safety Agency and has been adopted in the EEA Convention and a reimbursement on the export of air-efficiency certificates and on the first edition of air-replaced gases due to non-computed aircraft. At the same time, you can find in the bill permission for a minister to recommend the payment of expenses due to the job of a concierge at airports with a controlled pay period. The payable warrants found in the bill were previously found in the Icelandic Air Management Act, which was terminated by the implementation of law No. 119/2012, about a Grouproom. The Office of Transport sent a letter stating that the warrant had been issued and requested that the Ministry be used to reimburse the source of the warrant in the law. The required currency is not routinely required and only occurs on the request of a currency, either on a newly recorded non-unenable vessel or on a fold of a vacuum, such as through sale or when due after the period of rent. A directive is about the European Air Safety Agency and the European Safety Agency to include comparable sources from these European institutions to the EEA Convention. Thus, Ministers are now required to implement the Council of the European Parliament and the Council's Regulation regarding the establishment of the European Air Safety Agency. On the basis of the establishments of the Agency, the European Commission is authorized to set up regulations for certain activities of the institutions and to implement them in this country. The bill of the bill relating to the permission of the Minister of Ministers to measure the exchange of costs for the work of cohesion managers is aimed at strengthening support under current implementation, but changes were made in the order of a conformor at the Cheflavour Airport following comments received from the EFTA monitoring agency that his independence was not sufficiently guaranteed. Hence, this law does not include any change from the current arrangement. The bill was prepared with a Grouping Office for Remuneration Permissions. Then the bill was presented on the Ministry Web, and a two - week extension was given to comment. No comments were made on the bill. I have now explained the basic subject of the bill and, in other respects, referred to the comments of those who follow the bill. V.E.G. President. I suggest that the bill be referred to the highest level. Environment and Transport Committee and 2nd Environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u121	Madam President. Of course, this payback is probably a matter. This has been achieved when the two of them were screwed together to the point where sources in this respect have fallen. What caught my attention was these extensive regulations, apparently these are implementing a great system of regular action on the European Sea Safety Agency and then back in the area of the European Air Safety Agency. I'm curious to know: Is this an adequate source of induction and is it absolutely within the scope of Regulations enough to do this? For example, some of these terminal sites have now been turned to the sales of power and other factors in this way. I suppose there's no such thing here on the move because they believe it can be done with a simple rule warrant. And then perhaps, then, are these directives completed through the Foreign Affairs Committee and, as said, have they been blessed on the basis of decisions made by the European Commission and the rest of the streets?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u122	V.E.G. President. That is correct, and we know that there is an enormous international rule regarding air travel and transport. There are no regulations relating to governmental matters. There would have to be another way of doing things that would have to be done in all other ways, especially in advance. And when it comes to subsidizing administrative notices or taking the rules through law changes, of course it is. These rules are so safe that they can be handled in this way, that I have been assured and clearly understood. They have already been treated at appropriate sites. But I believe that, because there are considerable rules constantly coming from the international environment in which we are safe in flight, it is important for us to be aware of what we are doing at any given time, and we try to be very good at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u123	Madam President. I am well aware that there is a great rule that often has to do with these matters, both marine security and air security. I'm not recommending it, and I'm sure I'd be getting nervous that all the technical rules in these topics were, I don't talk about law, let alone by extensive means some technical changes that may occur from one month to another. But what I stopped and wanted to mention here, I accept the words of a minister, is, of course, a very open source. It is, in fact, stated: the Council is also allowed to set up a Regulation on the implementation of EEA types involved in tasks for the European Sea Safety Agency and the Agency have been hidden on the basis of its founding, () This is a general warrant for implementing tasks in this field. The same is true of the Air Security Agency. Here it states: a secretary is allowed to set up a Regulation that includes the introduction of EEA types for tasks in the realm of the European Air Safety Agency (EUCC) - which are expected to be open to the future, that the tasks that will be entrusted to that institution are permitted by a minister to introduce or be allowed to adopt them and to introduce them into our rights on the basis of these regulations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u124	V.E.G. President. As a matter of fact, I'm generally inclined to be careful with regulations and not to be too open. I can, in that sense, say the word. A senator's concern is to take extra care in providing overexpensive regulations. I think this is simply a call for the committee to examine carefully their handling whether this is not going too far or whether it needs to be reformed. I trust the committee to do so fully and carefully review it. In fact, I think we should also consider it when we are taking this great act of order outside, which in this case is of great importance to us that we are always thinking that we are taking it correctly into our rights and not giving up authority, whether it is to the premeditated or otherwise, in some unfavourable way. You wouldn't want to see that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u125	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill for a change in pharmaceutical law, No. 93/1994. The bill is made up at the Ministry of Health in cooperation with the Marketing Authorisation. This bill is aimed at granting legal permission to the Minister of Ministers to implement the directive of the European Parliament and the Council of Europe from 2010 No. 84 Council Regulation, No. 1235/2010 Pharmacovigilance activities. Using the above types, a new pharmacovigilance programme was established in the EEA, a term indicating all drug monitoring. It is therefore aimed at improving human health, improving the effectiveness of the European pharmacovigilance system, and increasing the safety of drug distribution and use in the European Economic Area. Idolatry, No. 93/1994, as stated previously, as certain fractions of the new requirements for the Marketing Authorisation Holder are not resolved in current legislation. This will also require changes in the Regulation No. 141/2011, Marketing Authorisation of the Medicinal Products, Their Marks and Package Leaflets. The target of the proposed changes is the induction of pharmacovigilance regulations, the most important changes in those rules since 1995. Pharmacovigilance refers to the methodology and measures involved in the prevention of unplanned adverse reactions of medicinal products after authorisation and marketing authorisation. These projects include a list of adverse events and spontaneous reports to identify and assess previously unknown adverse reactions and to prevent their adverse reactions. Pharmacovigilance rules are put in place to prevent and identify adverse reactions of medicinal products via the improved protocol. The aim is to improve human health, improve the effectiveness of the European pharmacovigilance system, and improve the safety of drug distribution and use in the European Economic Area. New system rules define the role and duty of parties in a closer way than before, and new tasks are implemented, and notification systems are strengthened. The need for increased access to patients and to the glaging personnel to report the system of medicinal products as well as the more efficient public information about the risks of taking the medicinal product. This new principle will, in the opinion of the European Commission, improve the effectiveness of the pharmacovigilance system, which aims to increase human health and save lives. It is now estimated that in the European Union some 197 thousand people died each year because of drug side effects, but with improved pharmacovigilance activities, it is estimated that there are some five thousand lives that can be saved. It is anticipated that in the European Union about 2.5 billion will be spared the changes the European Union will bring in this way to its regulations. The induction of these types is not expected to have a significant impact on the income or charge of state funds, as there is a payment warrant for the publication of the marketing authorisation and the Pharmacovigilance fee laid on the surveillance party and the actions have already been established in the European Union. A respectable president. I have now explained the basics of this bill and allow myself to suggest that the bill be referred to. The welfare committee and to the 2nd. following the discussion presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u126	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A great review of this pharmacovigilance issue has been made by a health minister. As mentioned in his talk, it is therefore intended to ensure a better safe use of the medicines. I wondered, in the context of the fact that on the welfare committee, we've been discussing the bill for the change in pharmaceuticals that have to do with advertising on drugs and on TV advertisements. It also simplifys the information required for advertisements, including information under the bill not to provide specific information on side effects. So I wondered, " Can the bill conflict with the objective of these changes? ' Of course, it is not a Minister to decide, or to make decisions for the welfare committee, we can do it on our own initiative, and I'm not going to lay that responsibility on him, but doesn't the highest minister think that there is a basis for special attention to this and to see if it is normal to cancel the law to advertise at least the most common side effects?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u127	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. I thought about this a little bit during the tour of the bill presented here for discussion. I was thinking about the rules here being made, and although they haven't been completed in our law and order, I believe the Agency and the market have worked mostly on this rule. I concluded that there should be additional opportunities to increase the requirements of the Marketing Authorisation Holder for monitoring and information regarding the risk factors or possible side effects that the various medicines may cause. I believe that these legislation, or this bill, given that it will be a law, should in fact be working further by strengthening over control of drugs and their use in this country. As a result, it should be able to strengthen the foundation under human supervision if that bill is still the case. A senator referred to the law. That bill is primarily a means of bringing in equals between advertisements. Advertising on television is being authorized to be allowed in the photo albums or magazine editions. It is primarily competitive and also the bioavailability of consumers to collect information on the underlying medicines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u128	V.E.G. President. Yeah, that's right. By means of the bill now discussed in the Committee, there is an increase in communication between mediums so that TV is not one of the other forms of advertising. I think most members of the Committee agree that discrimination is difficult, but drugs are not normal products. Medicinal products can be serious, as the examples prove, for some 197 thousand people in the European Union are expected to die every year because of drug side effects. If you are not obliged to advertise the side effects - often and often - you cannot read the side effects of the medicines unless you have bought them, opened the package, and turned out a large severity with information on them. Many drugs are common in the use, painkillers, and others with many side effects that you do not know. I like the way this bill behaves, and I think there's a lot of work to increase the safety of consumers when it comes to information about drug side effects and information that drugs are not harmless at all. Of course, while medicines are invaluable and save lives and greatly improve the quality of life, they can also have very serious consequences. What I find most difficult about the product bill is that medication cannot be handled like any other product on the market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u129	A respectable president. Yes, drugs can be dangerous, such as cod. A senator says, but they are also extremely helpful. That's why they should be treated that way. I allow myself to state that the marketing market here in Iceland; Institute of Medicine, Drug Services, and those who handle drugs on the market are involved in a great deal of responsibility and obligation. The information about the medicines, side effects and their effects are provided in the package leaflets, as discussed below, when they are just above the tables. Some of these things can be purchased without a person's exaggerating information about the medicines, they're just over the table as a drug. The general rule of these matters, as we are leading here into law, i.e. A general principle is that drug advertising is authorised in Europe. I think that the discrimination in this country is a certain twin, allowing an advertisement in magazines or newspapers, but forbids it in television advertisements. I think we should make much more rigid demands, as is being done in this bill, and strengthen the Agency's position for monitoring, to guide and explain the role and responsibilities of the operators on the pharmaceutical matters, as well as to pay for and increase efficiency in the procedure on these matters. I think the best results are that we can improve in these areas, but I believe that the advertisements alone and the equations here have been made that it does not make any major difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-28-97.u130	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Healthcare Minister for reporting this bill. I'd rather describe my joy with the bill. This is because drugs are no ordinary product, and it is very important that this product is monitored with regard to pharmacovigilance in this context by detecting, evaluating and understanding possible side effects and preventing any occurrence of adverse events that could result from adverse reactions. Many people are not conscious enough, and often you are not aware enough of the side effects you can have and may think they are innocent. Sometimes you laugh inside and wonder why you should take a certain tablet for headache when the side effects may be far greater than any headache, although they are uncommon. It is very important that people are conscious and that those who handle drugs follow their registration duties and the rules. It is very important, as the figures shown in the bill, i.e. that about 197 thousand remained annually within the EU due to adverse reactions of medicinal products. It is estimated that this bill and the pharmacovigilance will save five thousand lives. I came here to celebrate this bill, and I think it's a big improvement.
