ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u1	Borist has received a letter for revocation of verbal query. Birgitta Jónsdóttir calls a question for an oral response on the icicle again. 1000, Section 577, on police clearances.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u2	By letter, dated April 20, the president has requested this, according to the 8th stipulation of 1st. 13th par. Parliaments, by the management and monitoring committee, that they address the following state-research report, Iceland's network and post office report; the contracting of youth research, a report on the state's car committee and the annual report of the 2014 National Reexamination.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u3	A respectable president. I come up here to ask a question about the President's conference board. Now, it's like yesterday and actually just since the Passover, we've been discussing here cases that have come to 1st. From the government and from the counsellors. For some reason, we have not yet discussed two cases from the highest level. The Minister of Home and Social Affairs, approved by the Government, on housing matters. V.E.G. Ministers have sent a special drop of energy to government officials hoping they'll speed up their work, but I wondered if they need to send more energy items. Has the highest. Is that what the President's got to do? Is that what it takes? I ask, " Why have we not yet considered important matters? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u4	On this occasion, the president wants to state that he is full of energy, and it's not a lack of energy that causes this issue to grow. A minister who has already been distributed has not been present for discussion. [[Up front.]] The president expects them to be on the program and will be discussed here at the beginning of the next week. We've been discussing other very important issues. This in itself does not involve priorities on the part of a president. The president is only trying to keep matters to the best of their ability, and he wants to state that the president is very pleased with the way things have taken place here during the past few days. There has been a detailed topic discussion on large issues that have greatly honored the council. But it's the President's will to take this case to the highest degree. Social Ministry, and other cases, are on the program as early as next week.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Department of Social Affairs and Homeland Affairs and Fisheries Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u6	A respectable president. Speak to the highest. During the days, however, the prime minister at the High Priest's Council gave some attention and particularly the chapter of execution. There, they proclaimed the greatest of all. Prime Minister, of a considerable lack of deduction, of my knowledge, of a stable tax laid on the prepared air, that this method would be used in decommissioned. I was just surprised. Although I had a positive view of the taxation idea to get rid of the problem, I thought that maybe we weren't in that place at work, because there were still a lot of opinions to be resolved. I was surprised at this lack of drag or talk about going on the stable tax way - which was actually a term I hadn't heard before; I had heard of passage taxes, but fine and well, that's not the main thing - and that the bill was being passed in spring about it. After the talk, the questions have awakened or grown. I kind of come up here as one big question mark in this. Has been decided, and this is my question to the highest. Prime Minister, use a stable tax as a means of relief? And then, have they gone through other options and excluded them? Have all the key issues related to this process been resolved? But the basic question is, Has this been determined and excluded?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u7	A respectable president. Yeah, like I've been seen both in my class and in the highest. Secretary of the budget is coming for a stable tax bill. Have other advantages been considered and evaluated? Yes, it has been done in a great deal of work that has been done well in the second year. Is there anything to wait, any other options to look at, that the preparation work is working well, that it is running out? Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u8	A respectable president. Yes, it's been decided, so it's due to be put on a stable tax. It's a little fun. As for me and other members of the council, we sit on a so-called treatment board. The committee works, so you just read in the papers what's going on in this process, go to these meetings, and get this kind of old news. But now I'm telling you, it's been totally clear that this road of stability has been decided on. It's a little funny because I think a meeting is being announced at the conference committee on Friday, where we're supposed to meet with experts to review various opinions related to this route and some big opinions, questions that woke up. All right. It's a little funny to be going in that way if this has been decided, but it's quite blunt. But I wanted to ask: It was in the news that the Icelandic government had had a discussion with the demands of London, a news report in DV. Is that true?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u9	A respectable president. The Icelandic government has had no negotiations with the demands.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u10	President. It has not been overlooked, however, that there does not seem to be a very good distance between the highest level of transportation. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance, heads of the administrations. We do not have to look far to see that there seems to be a lack of solidarity, such as. ... aboutexploitation insurance. The prime minister says that we are doing well with that work, but at the same time, it turns out that the secretary of finance says that cut off insurance is not in the cards but is the sole change in the length of time for which insurance is due. I wanted to ask the highest. Prime Minister, how is the message so misleading? There have also been other examples, such as the transfer at the hospital, Fish Room, that is a very strange case that somehow is in limbo, and then it is natural what was discussed here, abduction, that case also seems to be in very strange paths and very strange to the highest degree. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. To review these issues, the secretary of finance did not bring in the officials of the government to meet with them. I remember that during my last term when major and extensive operations, such as Icesave and other factors, were announced to a meeting in the Ministry of Presidency for information. It may be said that none of the leaders of the classes have been invited to such meetings since that government, yet there have been a large number of measures that have affected the interests of all the people of the land.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u11	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks about two comprehensive matters. I'll start with the second, same as what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson spoke, consultationd on the basis of work on the recovery of the ocean. The members have been properly informed about the course of the cases, or representatives of the classes, through the political hearing committee. On the other hand, when a meeting like this began distributing information to the press and even going to interviews to describe what happened at that meeting, I took it in many ways as a result of it. This led to a review of the manner in which information was being provided. At the same time, it has been stated, so I am only back to my previous inquiry on similar matters, that more people are being kept informed as necessary, including demands that were informed about the situation in December as revealed in the media back then and have been informed in accordance with the requirements, in line with what is considered safe to inform and relevant. So no matter what the parties of this matter are considered, they are kept informed in accordance with the motive and what it is safe to inform. Then the first question about the insurance policy. I'll tell myself there's a why. A senator to refer to news in the News magazine, which was some sort of aftercast on a similar report from yesterday. The report had a headline in it that because of inflation, the subsidence or correction of real estate loans might disappear. Then you read the article, and it revealed that the contents said something quite different and, actually, on the contrary. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I can't get the answer to this round. I'll try to do it later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u12	President. I appreciate the answers. It is now with this hearing committee that it is committed to the confidentiality, representatives of this committee under the obligation of silence, and it has not been found since these large statements were made at the National Assembly meeting. I don't think that kind of advice is good enough. It should be a tradition of finding information and if that is the earnest desire of the highest degree. The prime minister that we are going on this journey together is so important that we know where we are going, and this is to be a meeting. I think it's very important. I'm afraid to the highest. The prime minister is isolated there in the Ministry of Presidency, as if he criticized another prime minister during his last term. That's why I'd like to propose to the highest. The prime minister focused on becoming a better prime minister than the prime minister he or she is interested in.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u13	A respectable president. I have to reiterate what I said before that some of these jobs are of the nature of informedness; otherwise, it does not serve the national interests of being informed about them. The same thing applies to me, because there were previously some reports of discussions with demands, that even informing them of certain things without making negotiations with them can serve Iceland's interests. At the same time, it is important to inform the representatives of the classes as much as possible, but when it comes to information spilling out of a meeting, apparently in a few directions, and even in interviews to interpret things in their own way, this should be taken into account. This is where I see what's going on. paritaprevir In this case, Páll Árnason, president of the United States, asks for a meeting director, and I am not surprised.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u14	Mr. President. That statement, the highest. Prime Ministers are perfectly unappreciative. He bit his head off the shame when he said here almost plainly that the person guilty of confidentiality was at ease. paritaprevir The chairman of the United States, Páll Árnason. This is a perfectly unappreciative move on the side of the highest. Prime Minister and false. Here we are members of the government opposition and even one of the names given incorrectly. Prime Minister in a low standard. The correct thing is that the days before the hearing of the committee at the beginning of December were that information, mainly in the Morning newspaper, was being published. the fact that there was a total area of 3,35,40%, and so on. After that meeting, no new information was presented in the media. None. This can be proved by reviewing the coverage of the preceding days. In one of the most insane business officials in the Ministry of finance, an e - mail was sent to say that there had been some form of perplexity that is indiscreet. It's unappreciated of the highest. Prime Minister to use it this way. [[The president calls.]] If he doesn't withdraw his comments and apologize for them, I can't see that there's anything I can do but disappear from everything that's supposed to be entitled to talk to this government. [[The president calls.]] This is no way to misuse such relationships. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u15	The president made the mistake of starting a discussion about the President's conference board before the program was completed. According to Congress, the program program is to be completed, and the president would like to postpone a discussion about the President's conference board and then conclude the discussion under the expected time of inquiry. The president has taken down the rosary, which he expects us to get started later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u16	V.E.G. President. There are now serious strikes, including ... atSecond Hospital. It is clear that if we reach a stated goal, that there will be a top - order discharge of health care and that we will be able to compete with other northern nations, two things must come into existence. On one hand, comparable pay and employment conditions for staff and, on the other, for housing, equipment and equipment in the front row. So I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister as the executive of the government's work on the outworking of the project and the new construction of Lands Hospital at a University Hospital on Ring Road. Today, the General Assembly is scheduled to make the highest resolution proposal. Economic and financial secretary on the budget for the next three years. It says, for instance, the President's permission: These plans are intended to be completed at the hospital site in 2017, and that the complete design of LSH treatment core will be completed. That involves 860 billion. K. increase of donations in 2016 and a combined 5.1 billion dollars. expenses during the period It has been observed in the highest grade. Healthcare Minister to submit complete design for the treatment core to be planned in April and tender invitations due to the health care unit property also to be completed, should be completed in 2017. Today, April is almost complete, so it is reasonable to ask the highest of questions. Prime Minister whether the scheduled timing is not met, whether the task management is at the highest level. The prime minister is out of harmony with the above - mentioned statements. Minister. Meetings were met in this issue at the General Assembly by resolution of a new International Hospital on the Ostrobothum in Reykjavík in the past spring, and has repeatedly emphasized that this important matter is being fulfilled. At that time, nearly a billion budgets were set up for the construction of a new land hospital when she arrived for a release in December. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister whether this matter is not on schedule and is working on it according to the approval of the Generals and the financial and health secretary's declarations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u17	A respectable president. I believe this case is pretty much on schedule and completely in accordance with the government's policy declaration. However, this is not the case. A senator agreed to be approved by a resolution of a new Hospital on Ring Road. It was particularly noted that the wording could not be accepted while men were still following the approach to respond to the lack of maintenance that occurred during the last terms during which the Landsaholic became the victim of an enormous and repetitive surgery, which suffered. in the hospital property. As a result, the emphasis to begin with has been taken on corrective measures at the hospital and on repair as needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u18	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. A minister for the answer, although I do not quite know what it meant, as it did at times when it was at the highest level. Minister responding. It was about a hospital. But you're right by the top. Prime Minister that further rebuilding is required. But I would like to ask them straight out, " Where is the rebuilding work to take place? ' V.E.G. The minister has expressed himself that the hospital should be moved. It will delay this project for months and even years. Should we not try to get a clear answer in this regard? Regarding the cutoff, it is true that during the last season after a collapse, the bank crash was called. But I'm going to get the attention. As a result, prime minister has the highest budget. The prime minister expected billions more medical cuts. Happily, the strength of the people, the government, the employee movement, and others were able to reverse that trend. I thought we were on the straight track, and I'm trying to get the answers to that: aren't we running all the way to rebuild and rebuild a new hospital on Ring Road?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u19	A respectable president. First, I have to correct a problem. A senator. On the contrary, there was no plan for large - scale cutbacks in donations to the Land Hospital, for it is clearly seen in financial support that contributions to the Hospital have never been as great as they are today. Thus, it has not only been completed by the last government but also by its extension. Regarding such questions or statements, why? A senator and his opinion of the hospital's location will follow the procedure and repair development of the area where the hospital is now while in that area. I have said, however, that men should always be reasonable and look at options in the situation, but in the meantime it is very important that they do not compromise on the necessary maintenance and structure of the hospital, especially in particular, and not least to respond to the cuts he was given during the last term. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u20	President. A financial and economic minister is asked that today's Newsletter might have responded sooner to the demands of pay people that were soon realized that they would be pursuing pay raise at this time. During the interview, a secretary of finance, by permission of the president, admitted that men should have stuck together on the basis of the success of a bargain contract, and would expect that the government itself might have been better prepared for negotiations and strikes that now oblige the community. That's very interesting, at least. President, already the pay management business with the state has run aground. That's why I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister whether he shares this opinion with the secretary of finance, and if so, why the government was so unsatisfactory when it was dawned upon when a collective agreement with the State broke out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u21	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks if I agree that the government has been poorly prepared and why it has been badly prepared. I completely disagree with the fact that the government has been poorly prepared. She has prepared what was predictable very well, had much and good consultation with the labour market partners, not necessarily agreed on all things, but never expected. However, the preparation has provided that we are now entering a dresser interview where people believe that such economic success has been achieved in Iceland that people can make far more demands of dressers than they have seen for decades.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u22	President. Then it is confirmed that the prime minister disagrees with financial and economic ministers and is not the first time as we deal with the insurance policy. But because of the highest. One prime minister says that the government is well prepared that it is now having discussions with employees - yes, after a few weeks of labor and a meeting with the state of the remuneration of employees, where nothing has happened from the state of the people. And there has been a complaint on the part of the employees'union.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u23	A respectable president. There's some misunderstanding going on here. The government is not discussing terms. This makes the government's treaties. However, as it has been done for decades, it is clear that it is impossible for the government to assess the scope of collective agreements while the public market has not been established. Why is that, Mr. Honorable President? Yes, it is obvious, it is that most of the government's income comes from taxing the general market and only when people see what's going on there they have a basis for evaluating what is practical in the public market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u24	A respectable president. V.E.G. Before answering a question, the prime minister went to great lengths to avoid it. paritaprevir This is Birgitta Jónsdóttir on the insurance policy. That's normal. It is embarrassing to watch the heads of the administrations of the governments speaking one in the East and the other in a nuclear language on the front cover of the News News for two consecutive days, especially embarrassingly for prime ministers, since this is his main campaign and the forward party before the last election. Last night's read by the highest. Prime Minister to be employed in the Ministry of Financial Affairs for initial decommissioning insurance. Today, the head of the Independence Party comes and says, "There are no bills being processed, only checks on the duration." I'm asking the highest. Prime Minister: Is it not only honest with him to admit it and to tell people the truth that the government is not about to cancel the insurance, that the government groups have not agreed to cut off insurance, and that the advance team never made it a condition for the development of the government that it would eliminate insurance?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u25	A respectable president. That was so lame. Hv. A senator has often done better in a twist than this, but I rejoice at the opportunity to answer the question that I did not already have time to answer. paritaprevir Birgitta, the Jónsdóttir of John, asked her earlier because she asked about so many big things. A respectable president. There's already a place to take out the insurance policy at consumer loans, no matter where this peculiar story is in the newsletter this morning. She seems to be, as I had begun to answer here earlier, some sort of continuation of a news story from yesterday under a very misleading headline. Here it is being reused, which is, in fact, a year - old news story, trying to interpret it again to make something completely different from it. When I am old, I say, because it's been almost a year since a news release was published on the location of this case and nothing new in the newscast of what was published there. In part, it says that the government has agreed at a meeting of continued work on decommissioning insurance from new consumer loans. It turns out, and there was a considerable discussion at the time and actually debated that this was decided to be done for more than one step. Some wanted to mean that it could be done all at once, just one step away from the insurance policy, others considered it more reasonable to do so in steps. The top result of the task management programme was to be considered as both the results of the majority but also the indications of the smaller section and the agreed work programme, which included the context. would be the head of the Department of Economic Affairs to oversee the work of preventing spending up to ten years on the price-settling loans to the consumers, and for the price-secured apartment loans, the minimum time of new prices would be extended for up to ten years and the limitations would be made on mortgages. This continues to describe the work of the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Presidency. At the end of this work in 2016, when the results are found, the best way to take the next steps in breaking out insurance will be to evaluate the results. [[The president calls.]] This is all in harmony with what was described in the News magazine this morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u26	A respectable president. Prime Minister must be accused of anyone other than me of being outcasts. Secretary of the budget makes it clear in the news paper today that insurance has not been decommissioned but is only limited perhaps. The length of some loans. Prime Minister has promised abduction of bail. He said it was a simple matter. If he is not going to fulfill it, it is simply possible for him to say it here in a speech chair or to say that a minister of finance is mistaken. Of course, it is a concern for homes in the country if they are now going to be under attack, but the secretary of finance is still considering whether some length of years should be limited on some valuable loans. Since the prime minister mentioned this, the bill about banning a loan longer than 25 years of age, the prime minister himself promised in his course speech in the fall. That bill hasn't seen the day yet. [[The president calls.]] And the secretary of finance says that there will be no light this winter. It may come in the next fall. [[The president calls.]] Then there will be some deadlines, since this can have such a hard effect on the housing market. There's nothing to lay down once the top policy address. Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u27	A respectable president. It can be tried on, but if you look at it as a dog. A senator then said that they can see that the contents are nothing because they are working on this schedule in accordance with what was introduced almost a year ago. In the beginning, new consumer loans' insurance cut off was the title of the news release, brought considerable attention to their time, and discussed the issue of whether this was the right thing to do in two steps or in one step. This was too much to be carried out in this way, and this is a clear worded job description, in which it is specifically discussed that the Ministry of Economics is taking on certain factors that the Secretary of finance has now declared to be being under way. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. All this riot over this peculiar presentation in this story, a year-old story, and an experiment to re-interpretation of the year-old news, is all the strangest thing. All of this is in place, how the plan will be carried out, and what the secretary of finance said about the role of the Ministry in it is perfectly in harmony with the 1st stage of that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u28	Before the president gives the word for the President's conference board, the president kindly wants to draw attention to the question. According to members of Congress, under this program it is not expected that material discussions will continue to be discussed in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u29	A respectable president. It's not much of a human experience at the highest level. Prominently, the prime minister flees from the hall when carrying a hand for his head. This is where he accused me of my trust earlier. I'd like to trace the fact that in the end of the meeting he made that a subject at the beginning of December had the government leaked organized ideas on eviction taxes to the press. Hence, all the media knew of this meeting, and following it, we were naturally asked about our position in the government stand. I made a statement about a policy on eviction taxation, for which I have a full source, which the Director of Economic and Business Council proposed for the implementation of the budget, consisted of an eviction tax. I generally expressed myself about the subject of exfil taxation, his common sense, advantage, and vice. However, it is absolutely impossible to participate in cooperation with the government if Ministers are allowed to give declarations of all sorts of cloud cities, but if we express ourselves and carry our hand for our heads, we are breaking our confidence. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It tells itself that consultation with this government is impossible. V.E.G. The prime minister stated earlier that certain stable taxes have been decided. Fine. Then put on a bill there at the council. It is pointless for us to attend a meeting of discussions about what has long been determined. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u30	President. I think it's very serious that we're here at the highest level. The prime minister, in effect making this committee appear lazy, so it has not been kept informed. That's not true. I think it's very serious, Mr President, to the highest degree. The prime minister is allowed to get away with it without simply being broad for such things, and then he runs out here with his tail between his legs, afraid to answer for himself, or answers for bearing a lie. I think it's very serious, Mr. President. And I have to say, I think it's the norm. The prime minister, who did not answer at this time of inquiry, again and again, to such shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u31	A respectable president. There's a lot of style for being here with pimps for individuals and then just going. I feel like the highest. The prime minister should apologize and retract his comments. I'm sitting in this group of consultations. There are three reasons why, in a hurry, I can see that nothing has been leaked there. First, there are men and women who take their assignment very seriously and who are prepared to face it and shoulder the responsibility that the project poses a great deal of danger and one thing to identify the task is in consultation and confidential. Second, the meetings have been so few that it is as follows the nature of the matter that it is very difficult to leak some of the meetings that are not. And third, it is simply that if someone had wanted to leak, they have not been able to leak anything because everything has been presented in the media before. Things that have already been observed cannot be leaked. The only man who has actually broken his trust is the highest. One prime minister who spoke at the party of his own party and told what had been determined in these respects. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] In the group I had this experience, and I hope that I am not breaking my confidence that it was just beginning to consider the benefits. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u32	A respectable president. The currency capital responsible for this discussion is creating an economic emergency for society. Under these circumstances, the prime minister is to unite all, all members of the community and all political parties and all members of this hall to solve our most important interests and deal with the foreign forces we face. Of course, it is sad to watch over and over again the rudeness of the prime minister. But it is in direct contrast with the urgent national interest that he allows himself to divide people in this most important interest by his amazing behaviour and by having honorable members who do their part in political work in behalf of the nation, money, and ridicule, for no reason. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u33	Mr. President. Sadly, it is for us why. Councilmen are back to the highest. A prime minister who is more familiar than the front gate, since he is always running out of this hall every time an important matter is taken to a discussion, and we look at his butt disappears. Of course, it's not okay, Mr. President, to the U.S. General at the highest. The prime minister is always running from discussions at the council, allowing himself to make accusations and accusations. senators who are trying to work faithfully in their consultations. To be honest, I see no reason why the government continues to participate in some virtual community when the Supreme Opportunity is at its height. The prime minister announces his decisions at the Assembly of the House of Congress, not in this body of talks, not in this council hall, because he has no respect for the Generals. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] I feel that a respectable president should consider his duties as the president of all of us. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u34	A respectable president. My business in the public talk is, in effect, praying to the highest degree. A president who is now our head here at the council to have a word with the head of the government, the highest. The prime minister I have to call for such a recommendation, but I find it unnecessaryly solemn, especially to the minister's conduct earlier today, in one of the nation's greatest interests that it is not possible to cooperate with the opposition of the government because it is silent on meetings. That's a lie, a respectable president. It is not true that we have been, and it is natural that the prime minister will be able to run away from the discussion when the complaint is presented. [[The president calls.]] I'm waiting for the highest. President, to appear on our behalf, trying to raise this fine man. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u35	Mr. President. I have to say, just as it is, I thought it was the norm. Prime Minister of the former day of scandal. She was a scandal and, of course, a failure to do so. Here he accuses the government's failure to confide in someone. paritaprevir Páll the son of Árnason, president of the Conspiracy, has some fault there. I'd like to ask Mr. President to take matters into his own hands and speak our case to the highest degree. Prime Minister. Then a minister jumps out of the hall when he knows what we're going to talk about. He is not a man to stand here and discuss these charges with us. This is a scandal, Mr. President, and I'm asking you to respond to it on our behalf.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u36	Mr. President. I come to this talk chair to express the greatest shame on the march of the highest order. The prime minister when he makes matters worse by disrespecting the council and the senators well aware that this will be a discussion immediately after unsubstantiated inquiry, and he will escape from the hall. It's shocking. This is the most preposterous of all, considering that the only man who has really done anything in public with sensitive information in this is himself the highest. Prime Minister. Some three weeks ago, at a meeting in the Convention Committee, we were informed that people had come to a conclusion that they had taken a different form of tax approach than they had worked up to this point. There was no single word about it until the forward party council. At that time, it was said that a stable tax that we did not know better, seated with premonition experts, was still a wonderful problem, legal, and even administrative problem. [[The president calls.]] However, it was the prime minister who went that way, and now from this platform earlier that these decisions had been made. [[The president calls.]] Then I agree with others who have said here, and there is no more consultation. And I don't miss it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u37	V.E.G. President. What's happened here today makes me very concerned about Generalis's position. Therefore, I direct my words to the highest. President. We are repeatedly given the sight and perhaps the worst movie for a long time of disrespect. Prime Minister for the Council and the members of Parliament. It's bordering on the paranoia of these insurrections and accusations coming from the highest level. The prime minister of other members of Congress at the same time and virtually all that he is critical breaks him himself. Here was a question period before and in my simple inquiry, because it's April month, I'd like to know if there's not a whole plan for a new hospital, it's coming to the top. Prime Minister, who says: "Well, I'm not sure about that, we will decide. Yes, it is. It's been decided at the council in two-and-a-three, and everyone else has made a statement about it, but I'm thinking about it this way, whether to move someone else, and first to move into a new building. What kind of disrespect is this for the Council and the decisions made here? [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. President. I'd like you to pick this up on the Presidency Committee. [[The president calls.]] Allegis's problem is prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u38	A respectable president. Of course, witnessing this is heartbreaking. We have a prime minister in the country who is unable to handle the conversation at the Generalis Hall. He can't bridge the gap. He won't be able to speak from level to level. It cannot attract those from the side of government or cooperate with those who do not share it. It is heartbreaking to witness this because it is the nation that eventually pays for it when political parties, governments, and governments cannot cooperate. We are pressured by political leaders and prime ministers who feel the size of themselves to do this. It is heartbreaking to witness at the height of the day. The prime minister brings such compliments to the hall, but then he cannot even continue to support them, in order to back them up materially. It's sad to witness this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u39	A respectable president. This behavior is highest. Prime Minister is part of a pattern I would like to ask the highest. Prime Minister in, but he's not here with us anymore, starting somewhere. The pattern appears to be that of doing something, no matter what it is, and it goes before the council, and it's either set up a group of consultations, or put in a bill or something. But then it makes a decision. Prime Minister to do it somehow differently, just on his own. When he's in the mood for answers, the council isn't good enough, they don't act well enough, so he just does it himself so that he doesn't have to bother with this Council. This attitude, this behavior, is not available in a democracy. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister, if he had not escaped, what respect he considered to be in the Senate. If he doesn't consider the Senate to be good enough in Iceland, what will he do to fix it, except to take over all the remaining power in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u40	A respectable president. I heard senators laughing when I fell from the word earlier. It was simply because I had to go to the telephone just when the word was given to me, and now I'm here to discuss a meeting with the president. The representatives of the government today have fallen tremendously heavy words. We're at the highest point. The prime minister here expressed himself about the truth about a certain senator and said that the man was upset and had asked for the word to be heard for the President's meeting board on the basis of his recommendation. I would like to remind you that the meeting group would write under the confidential declaration so that the group could function and that they would have confidence in each other. Then it happens, and members of the Parliament are eager to find out what is happening. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll Árnason is raised, and he actually admits to what the prime minister was saying, that on December 8, he communicated with the media about what was going on in the group. A respectable president. What is it? We have a confession. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u41	A respectable president. It's almost like you're looking for a president to break up about the President's conference board because he's actually talking about Prime Minister's words, and it's just crazy to watch him run out of here. You've got a pretty good series of mental pictures of him running out of here. He keeps talking about reasoning. What reasoning does he have? Does he have any inner arguments somewhere, because he certainly never wants to reason with the Council? The situation is that one case after another is out and south of the government. And it turns out there's no way out of the government, there's no total concern. Why is that? That's because of the highest. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson does not contain traces of leadership, there is no such thing as bringing up a point. [[The president calls.]] In situations like these, each individual is identified. The day's task, however, is to consider: What is the highest source of life? Prime Minister Made?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u42	A respectable president. I come up here to direct that wish to the highest level. President to now sit down with the highest. Prime Minister and review these matters, what is expected of him as prime minister in his dealings with the council, and to set some basic rules in dealing with the council and members of the Parliament, what is acceptable, and what is wrong. I think there's a good reason for that. I always like to try to talk about things the way they are. I have this experience so that most members of the council, representatives of all classes, could cooperate and work together to resolve matters, e.g. Amazingly complicated extracts, such as delinquency. I think we could do it really well. This new generation of politicians is very solution. There is one problem, and it has to be coped with. [[The president calls.]] That problem is called Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson, and he is the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u43	Mr. President. Grab hold of what? This is a matter of fact and I have to agree with what was said here last, and I realize that it's the highest. It is pity for the president to deal with the highest possible challenges. Prime Minister. Obviously, it is not a simple function, for it has been tried in this council hall, and it needs to be found who can talk to the minister so that some effort will be made during the council. We have a variety of jobs to agree with, and you wonder when the conduct of a prime minister is in this way, " Should I stop sharing in cooperation? ' When will the time come when it will not be worth informing us about certain matters other than the ones involved? I was in that committee as part of the first year of this government, and the meetings were very few and very little that were not present, as this has exactly been attributed, which had already occurred elsewhere. [[The president calls.]] And it was not the government council that it enlightened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u44	Mr. President. It's not much of a blow when it's at the top. Here the prime minister throws a bomb and flees. It may not be good for the public to see such a discussion and not understand what is going on here. However, the career of prime minister calls for the harsh response of all members of Congress, so it is. There's no acting here. It's just people's turn. Councilmen are offended. I'd count to the highest. A prime minister should be a man greater and come here to apologize for his words. It is not appropriate to accuse a person of breaking up trust when it is not yet possible, and he himself goes on his way to a convention and violates the confidence that he speaks of others have violated by discussing these matters openly. [[The president calls.]] And you ask yourself, " Is it the highest? ' The prime minister of his work was raised or not? Hopefully soon we'll find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u45	A respectable president. This takes on even more funny images. Here's the cry to the highest. Prime Minister. As the senators know, there is a structure here in the house where members of Congress can listen to speeches and the highest. Prime Minister is here in the side room. I don't know what kind of agitation this is and what's going on. A respectable president. I am amazed at the language that the members of Parliament have about one party, the highest. Prime Minister, without the absolute scope, I must say at the moment. [[Up front.]] I wondered, " What is the purpose of this program at the council? ' There's nothing to explain to the conference board. It's getting the shoe kicked off of the top. Prime Minister. What he said, by permission of the president, in a speech was: 'Here I see why. paritaprevir In this case, Páll Árnason, president of the United States, asks for a meeting director, and I am not surprised. [[The president calls.]] And what? paritaprevir The Árni Árnason, who appeared here, admitted that he had communicated with the media from this confidential group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u46	A respectable president. There has been talk of leakage of confidential information in connection with the release of capital waste. In a report on December 8, Þórður Snær Júlíusson, right after a meeting that was almost exactly exactly what happened at a conference on emissions conference. [[Just mentioned: Were you there?]] Exactly. It is quoted in that report, that is exactly what happened at a meeting of emissions conferences, and that is a fact. [[Up front.]] So it is very serious, such as this, that such information is leaked. The next day, it's white. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason in an interview is involved in what happens at this meeting and interprets it. I'm not gonna say it was what it was. paritaprevir Páll Árnason, who leaked this information, has been a major source of information. These two facts are obvious. The most amazing thing to observe here is that the government body does not sense the importance of keeping confidential information as such and does not perceive the importance of taking hold of its demands. [[The president calls.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] It is amazing to observe repeatedly that it is as if the heart is being torn out of the position of government when faced with demands. [[To the point: It's presumptuous.]] [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u47	President. You don't really know how to deal with what's going on here today. And it is natural that those of us who have sincerely wanted to work together to take care of the situation - because it is not a private matter of Ásmás Ásmundur the Daðason of Dadoron or the Sigmunds of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, that is not their personal affairs. It is not a matter of private affairs, it has to be done with the welfare of the whole nation. I've called for a consultation with the government, and she doesn't want to. And instead of being honest about their lack of solutions, they try to avoid the responsibility of letting someone leak something by throwing it on others. It's incredibly lame, isn't it? It's so cowardly you don't know what to say. Whatever it is. A senator does here, that dear people about things that he himself is best known to, is quite wonderful. A lot of people are holding me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u48	A respectable president. Now the president has listened to it as the highest. Prior to this, the prime minister made a statement that he made in his speech and also an accusation made by his assistant. I'd like to ask the president if he doesn't consider it a reason to interrupt this meeting and review it at the highest level. Prime Minister and his assistant on what the situation is and what their attitude and what what they have said here mean for the Congress work and cooperation of government and government opposition. This is a serious matter. I'm glad to hear it. Prime Minister is now in the hall. I hope he will react to what has been said here before the day comes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u49	A respectable president. It's very convenient for a dog. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason, to come and read here from the core's discussion on this matter, but he absolutely skips reading from the morning's discussion for this meeting, because the reactor's coverage was in exactly the same way materially. The only difference was that the reactor's coverage came after the meeting, and the Morning Press was first. Hv. A senator may be able to explain how this is so. Or maybe it's just that you never know who's said what to do with it. V.E.G. A prime minister has felt that he is quoting from demands, but he is witnessing at the beginning of his life. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Perhaps what we receive here is based on something he has said in some article somewhere. It's not like there's a stone on top of it. What's going on here is that men are in the highest power. The government cannot handle the conversation between government and government. It is the sad fact that was so tragic today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u50	A respectable president. I'm going to discuss the President's conference board under this point and make a note that this is a very clear statement. In fact, the members of the government's stand of misuse of that point and interpret it so that there is some debate here, even calling for an appointed person to participate in the discussion. So far as the abuse of the past over the President's conference board is concerned, they are viewing him as a special debate for them to discuss their special interests. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. Then I'll have to, now that I'm up here, to use the opportunity to make a comment to that word why. þm. Steingrímur J. Sigfuson's son said that there was some frustrated government official at the Ministry of finance, or how it was now said, who complained about leakage from this committee. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] First, I find it most inappropriate to speak of officials in this way; second, this was not an angry official; it was the chairman of the committee who made representatives of the panels of the Committee aware that in view of the possibility of having become this serious confidentiality, he would not see why to hold more meetings until the hearings had been resolved. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u51	V.E.G. President. What delays the search for colon cancer? is the headline of a newspaper article written earlier in winter by Ásgeir Theódórs, a doctor and specialist in digestive medicine and health care. As a result of reading this article, I wanted this particular discussion about this subtle, destructive disease, i.e. colon cancer with fatal outcome of approximately 52 Icelanders per year, i.e. One per week, which is estimated to be 1303/4,140 per year. In part, Ásgeir said by permission of the president: Since critical research has proved to be a benefit in social terms, the quality of the health - care system is particularly focused on effective prevention and management measures. That's exactly what I want to talk to you about at the Council now, i.e. looking for colorectal cancer as one of these precautionary measures, with great social and financial benefits. The tools and skills to search, analyze and treat this cancer have long been available, but we have had little or nothing to do with these agents except talk about it, reason and agree. Now I believe that time of action and action has indeed come for us Icelanders, though earlier, and thus follow the steps of our neighbors, who have already begun such a search. The results of this failure are expected, since the reduction in mortality is estimated to be about 70-80% due to this refractory disease. This is interesting and saves a lot of government funds during treatment, that I now do not talk about individuals. This is not the first time to discuss the prophylaxis screening and search for colon cancer at the high Council. May 3, 2002, was adopted at the General Assembly, by president's permission: ▪ The General concluded to hide a health minister in agreement with the surgeon of the land to recommend the management and search for gastrointestinal cancer for those who are considered at risk and who are preparing for the procedure. On March 17, 2007, a resolution was adopted at the General Assembly. She said, with president's permission: ▪ The General concluded to hide a health and insurance minister in agreement with the surgeon of the country to initiate the screening for colorectal cancer to start in 2008. In December of that year, a working group produced a more thorough report, including for the search for colorectal cancer. Since then, ministers have received some conclusions from Iceland's cancer partner on the same topic as agreed on prevention of colorectal cancer, as stated earlier, and signed the preeminents of Iceland's cancer community, the governor's National Institute of Health, Public Health, the Social Cancer Association, Iceland's Clinic, and the Icelandic Family Association. A respectable president. This destructive disease does not have to be complicated and what can be done if an organized screening is taken up and what it can save many lives. This is because with a planned screening, you are looking for so-called polyps in the colon or rectum, and if polyps have abnormal growth, it is desirable to remove them at the screening by means of the so-called snare. This is because over time these polyps can become severe cancer. Screening tests allow polyps to be found and removed, thus reducing the risk of the disease becoming and dying of the disease. In part, a respected president of the United States, says this in Iceland's cancer community. A respectable president. At the beginning of my speech, I said that the time of action and execution was long ago in the matter of screening and searching for colorectal cancer in this country. The people of the land can no longer wait, national gain and savings are obvious. That is why I have requested this discussion with the following questions to the highest level. Minister: How many people have died in this country of colon cancer each year? There is a tendency to initiate a planned screening for colon cancer in the country. If so, when? What is the estimated cost of such a search each year, and how does it compare with the largest paid team? Finally: What is the patient's estimated cost in such a search? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u52	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this discussion of the screening for colorectal cancer. The discussion is not new, but it is certainly urgent. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " On March 17, 2007, a senator agreed to meet with the highest body of members at the General Assembly. a current health minister was assigned to start preparation for colorectal cancer screening and was expected to be screened in 2008. My Prefect of Health Ministers then ordered a panel of counsellors under the premeditation of a disease specialist, which included evaluating the value and cost-elevation of screens for colorectal cancer and making suggestions for action. The advisory group returned the final report in February 2009 where a screening for colorectal cancer was found to be costly, but the procedure was complex. Then the adviser group suggested that the screening for colon and rectal cancers be performed among people of the age range of 60◯69 years, where they would be invited to pass faeces every other year and in the samples looking for blood. Those who were found to have blood in their stools would be offered a colonoscopy. The experience of this screening was also suggested to lay the groundwork for future projects. In view of the economic hardships that took place in 2008 and the subsequent public cuts, tests could not be started and measures have been repeated. Hv. A senator asks if there is a planned screening for colorectal cancer in this country and, if so, when. The answer to that question is yes. The Ministry is now preparing to initiate a systematic screening for colorectal cancer. The preparation is being done in cooperation with the National Cancer Society, the position of surgeons and various experts, and the work that I was able to do here in 2009. No definitive decision has been made on the method of screening, but only procedures that meet the highest criteria for screening will be used. Sadly, at this point it is not possible to determine when this work is completed and therefore it is not possible to start systematicly screened for colon and rectal cancer. As I said, this project is being prepared in full practice by the Ministry. With regard to the estimated costs for herpes zoster and anal cancer screening, it is reasonable to note that in their 2009 report, the advisory group counted that screening for the age group between 60 and 669 years would cost about 58 million. K. But it's on prices in the middle of 2008. Based on the index of consumption prices and the number of people in this range today, this corresponds to about 107 million. K. It is estimated that they would remember to reduce the mortality rate by 18% if this was achieved or to save about 17 people from death if they were to follow up for ten years. At this time, it is not expected that the patient's own credit participation will be planned at screening and that their credit will generally be adjusted if this is the case decided. However, I would like to know that each year there will be a range of between 10 and 12 of you. a man in a colonoscopy. In 2014, about 14 of you went. a man in a complete colonoscopy of 12,200 in 2013 and less than 2 thousand in short-blowns. The estimated gross cost of this is 281 billion. K. According to oncology data, on average 133 cases of colorectal cancer are diagnosed annually. Also, colon cancer is the third most common cancer in both sexes and 54 individuals die each year from this cancer. Based on this information, it is important to introduce the population-based screening for colorectal cancer as early as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u53	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller for starting this discussion, thereby bringing it to the Generalis program. When you start looking for information about colon cancer, you get information on the land surgeon's home page that was appointed as a working group as early as the year 2000 that recommended that the screening for colorectal cancer be started. Since it is now 2015, it can be said that this matter has been discussed for a very long period of time, and indeed it is time for it to come from the stage of the discussion and that it will have to be screened for this type of cancer. The problem with this type of cancer is that it usually grows slowly and a long time after the first change occurs until the cancer begins to spread across the body. This is why you can deal with this cancer if you have responded early. Sadly, we have not yet had the wisdom to accomplish this, so 54 individuals each year are pretending. I think it's a good thing to do. A health minister says that preparation for screening is under way, but it is negative that the timing is not fixed for starters, so I encourage ministers to speed up the work as much as possible. [[The president calls.]] The clock and the highest. I don't agree with a president, but I do obey the highest. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u54	A respectable president. Think of your own ass, was the motto of matum earlier in the winter. Each year 750 American men with cancer are diagnosed, so I want to thank you. A senator for starting this important matter. Color cancer is one of the most common cancers in men in this country, and the incidence has increased, particularly in men, but colon cancer is one of the few primary cancers that can be diagnosed in the pre-mortality and early stage, and thus, by means of preventative measures, it is possible to severely reduce the occurrence of disease and save lives. Cars are checked regularly and have their maintenance until the run-time. There is hardly a ship that does not work after a maintenance program that tells us when to cross almost every screw in hardware. When motormans arrive at the shift, they check the computer and see what they have entered their maintenance period on the day. Of course, this is the case on the flights, for it is simply replaced by a set number of times away from the condition. When it comes to us, it's pretty random when men have cancer examinations. Some will have a checkup after a close friend or relative is diagnosed with a serious cancer that would most likely have been prevented by maintenance, in other words by screening. A 50 - year - old body has a run-time of over 400 you. hours. Is it too much to believe that the screening that truly saves lives will be done? In fact, many people have a colonoscopy at the turning point, and very often polyps are taken, which are more often than not the beginning of cancer. Good experience in a woman's organized search for breast cancer should encourage further action. The irony, though, is that while discussing cancer prevention measures, there is a strike that is worst affected by cancer patients who have no access to it. [[The president calls.]] So I encourage a minister to immediately initiate a planned screening and search for cancer in men.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u55	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the verbal debate. It is truly urgent, and I hear that members of Parliament and Ministers agree with the importance of screening as suggested by the proverb. It was very good to hear the highest. Minister has a history of action, so to speak. This case is not new. Ministers before this minister have been working on the case, but the work is mostly slow in my view. I agree with what other members of Parliament have said here, of course, it would be best if we were to come into the benefit as early as possible to the 2009 counseling team. It has to be admitted that I'm a little frustrated that it doesn't work faster. I read a news release today that I really thought had just solved the case. It tells us that the cancer community is starting some of the tests and has hired a gastrointestinal doctor for these tests, but there is more. I asked the highest. Minister on this point just now. We have to do this on a bigger scale, so to speak. All steps in the right direction, though, are good. And I'd like to say at the end that matums and the effort that has started there is extremely important, too, to reduce the number of people, especially men, to be examined. [[The president calls.]] There should be no shy matter involving colon cancer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u56	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this important discussion. It is not new, as we have seen. Many doctors have struggled for decades to see that regular screening takes place. I have to say, I'm always worried about what the General will do and will start talking about certain medical procedures at that point. A senator claims that in general medicine, which is not widely recognized or that the group of paintings has gone into a number of troubles, at least for a very long time were not listened to something that many called for. It seems clearly the latter is the case here and now, since it's a rather old discussion, it's been in the discussion a long time, somehow a little waiting. I trust the highest. A health minister was perfectly aware of this, and I thought his answer was excellent. In this group of subjects, I feel that we tend to deal with the problems when they are very big. When it comes to health in general, work, money, time, and life can be saved at an early age. When it comes to these forms of speech, we need to realize that when we spend money on things like the health system, we cannot expect to see immediate results. We need to realize that when we step in early, we are preventing something that takes a long time to eat grass. This I think is simply a complication of being a human being, perhaps especially being an Icelander, not to deal with the problem until it is way too big. Other than that, I trust the highest. Ministers of health for this case very well, and thank you again for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller for bringing up this important matter and the highest. A health minister for the answers that are definitively addressed here is to initiate the screening procedure in accordance with the recruitment protocol adopted in its own time, but will still be updated for each age group and in the type of screening method. It has been brought to the attention of the discussion that it is of utmost importance that we help, I'm going to say so, and I'm going to say it. Healthcare Minister, for increasing prevention and prophylaxis. Of course, it is the most important thing in the health - care system, not to have what has been commonly called just the repair service when problems are involved. Of course, this is much easier to say than to do. One has tried to wait too long and then be called to a hospital because of illness. It's not quite easy, as men are acting on this and I'm not going to be an expert on this. That's why I trust very well the experts on this subject. There's the term hyperbole. Overseers and interventions may have negative consequences, we need to keep that in mind. It also needs to ensure that effective methods are being used, i.e. methods that actually work but do not produce false expectations. I know that in this case, we're talking about colon cancer and experts say, "There's just the kind of cancer that makes sense and has to be tested, and then with appropriate technical equipment and a process of induction. My name is on the highest. Minister to proceed with this matter, as he has foretold. I note, though, that when it comes to a screening, it is extremely important that it does not cost patients much, only if it is just some normal return fee. There are measures that cost a considerable amount of money, and if it's due to charge, it's going to cost discrimination between the people of this country, which at least I don't want to become. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u58	A respectable president. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Kristjingi L. Möller, for needs and good discussion, an important discussion that began with the Senate resolution of the Árni R. Árnason of the 127th Council of 2001, on the increased prevention of cancer diseases, and now we need to make the work count. It is long known that health care prevention will save a substantial amount of money, as shown in the case of an authority. Most important, prevention is a higher quality of life, longer quality of life, and a better life. That is why money entrusted to prevention is well spent, and it returns to an increase in quality of life. One in three to four of Iceland's people can expect to be diagnosed with cancer at some point during their lifetime. The incidence of cancer at the beginning of this century was approximately 40% and mortality was 30%. So we have work to do, and this discussion is a good introduction to the prevention of important diseases. Environmental factors play a major role in eight to nine out of ten cancer diseases in humans, such as smoking, excessive drinking of alcohol, and dietary restrictions. We need to get involved. A respectable president. The most important preventive measures, then, are our own responsibilities. It will improve our lives and save society much money to the future. Start screens and save lives.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u59	Mr. President. I would also like to thank you for this discussion, both of you. The apocalyptic and the highest. Minister. Here's a nice combination that doesn't surprise you. We often discuss the importance of prevention and preventive measures, and I think that in this case it breaks down so that there is a search for surgery within the health system that has as strong prevention or prevention values as searching for this common type of cancer as anal or colon cancer, in particular by its nature and by identifying it at premises, there is a good chance of saving lives or the high quality of life of those who may later remember to deal with a much more serious illness, if not death, with costs, feelings of discomfort and discomfort. It is certainly not difficult to set up accounts that demonstrate enormous national benefits. It is likely that minor preoperative surgery is compared with long, painful, and job loss, and all of this is obviously the case. Of course, the most important thing is that it is possible to avoid premature deaths, even at a good age, which may remain in many good years, whether in a labour market or in a private setting. Hence, these materials have a very different well. It is good to hear of recent preparation work, and there is much more to learn about this procedure. As a result, my conclusion is that what simply needs to be done is to ensure financial support for the next budget so that it can be fully started and then I know that the good people living in the knowledge will take care of things. [[The president calls.]] There is no doubt about using the rest of the year to prepare the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u60	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the advert for starting the discussion, but as mentioned in the talks given, there are about 130 individuals on average diagnosed with colon cancer each year and 54 people who die, unfortunately, from this disease every year. 55% of those diagnosed with the disease are men. Most individuals diagnosed with colon cancer are older than 50, the major weight of which is diagnosed is over 60 years of age, with a mean age of about 70 years. Their survival prospects are variable in the occurrence of colon cancer. Depending on the stage in which the disease is diagnosed, the same is true of other types of cancer. In recent years, however, cancer mortality has been reduced. Many are already diagnosed. This may well be because the discussion of this type of cancer has been more open than before, people are even more aware of these factors than before. Your health minister, if I took the right note, will leave you at a rate of 10◯12. the person on screen to examine these factors. It must be kept in mind that colon cancer may be asymptomatic at the early stage of the disease, and therefore it is very important to initiate a planned screening for the lesion and to become as soon as possible. Based on the planned screening, the reduction in morbidity has been shown to be 73% and 82% of mortality in men and women, respectively. It was a great pleasure to read news this morning in the News magazine that already the European Cancer Association hired an gastrointestinalist to lay the foundation for a systematic search for colon cancer and to prepare such a search in cooperation with the health authorities. I agree with the members of Congress who have spoken here that this is a step in the right direction, but it takes more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u61	A respectable president. I would like my second talk on this important matter only to establish the prevention that this screening is, and why we should make this matter our second important issue of prevention. As we know, it is always far less expensive for society to intervene earlier. Early intervention requires much less health care because it is inexpensive to do screening than to receive highly cancered patients. And so is the untimely death of those whom we are discussing here who die of this cancer. Not only is it a painful loss, but we will have to, if we are to look at things practitionably, simply from taxes, knowledge, and general means of life to those who die because of premature death. It's all the same way as it's like you say in such a bad Icelandic way as 'no-brainer'. If I hear correctly, there are 50 million or something more planned for these tests each year. I agree with a senator earlier, of course, that we need to find this place in financial terms, but I ask: What plans are there for an arrangement, if the highest. Is the health minister working on the situation? Is more involved with the cancer community what we are about to see, or is some other arrangement at its highest level. Minister's going to work with you?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u62	V.E.G. President. First of all, thank you to the highest. A health minister for the answers he gave us members of the council to the questions I asked and to thank him for his speech and plan. At the same time, I want to thank other members of the council for their input into the discussion. In fact, it has been observed here that I was not surprised to find extensive support from all groups of Congress for starting the screening for colon cancer or anal cancer. My purpose was, among other things, to set this up on the Generalis program, with the government, and to start this discussion that has been so good for us this half - hour. It has been said of an organized search for breast cancer and of the cervix that the cancer community has been doing for a very long time. That's exactly what I think you should do about this cancer too, start a structured search for such people. V.E.G. A minister told us about some of the programs that have been done, and I believe that all of them, even though some of them are in their years, are so that they can be picked up, updated, and made ready if we feel like the subject now, to make sure that the next year's budget is set to begin this organized search. This half-hour's work would be well spent if it came out of this discussion. This organized screening needs to take place, and this discussed the highest. Minister on the opinion that has occurred at the age range of 60 to 669 years. I think we need to go downstairs and even go down to the age of 50. [[The president calls.]] I'm also pleased, sir, that at the end of today's News magazine, the cancer Society is initiating a structured search, but I want to believe that the government has to make it more handsome than ever, and that it is a trusted minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u63	A respectable president. I also thank you for the discussion that has taken place here. There is a great harmony among speakers in this important matter. I'm just gonna give you a little more information about numbers. They work in accordance with the 2009 counseling group and the current work is about to update their plans and make them possible for us to start. That's why this employee's employment with the Cancer Society is key in these matters. And to answer that question: We are in cooperation with the cancer community, the position of surgeons and experts in these fields, and we are going to try to put it together somehow so that we can go to work. While starting lower than 60 years of age may be desirable, it is important for the professional to offer suggestions. At the time, the proposal was performed at a rate of 60◯69 years of age. For information on the colonoscopy, which is the next level above the screening, 12 of you were found in 2013. a man who went to it, 14 thousand in 2014. Without hospitals and associates, there are a considerable number of people who have gone to this work on their own terms. In 2014, the cost of these reflections was nearly 120 million, 65% of the cost of reflection. There are already certain funds in this, but I rejoice in the will here shown to further the importance of this aspect of health care can become reality. As I'm saying, my proposal to the Ministry is that we can get started as soon as the work of these professionals is finished and I hope this year. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u64	A respectable president. I'd like to explain to you the proposal I made in a speech discussing the matter yesterday, that the case will be referred to the environment and transportation committee. The reason is that in the bill there is such possible change in organizational laws and restrictions, in fact, to the administrative independence of rural society and their role in organizational matters that I believe it is right to have the case on the board of planning and on the issues of rural society. Environmental and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u65	Mr. President. That's why it was a good argument yesterday that the subject should be held at home. The Environment and Transport Committee, because it directly affects planning. It does not really involve the cultural legislation that we have. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. What I thought was interesting, though it was suggested that the matter be taken to the point. The General and Education Committee, it was clear that no evidence was made. The argument that the matter should be further settled on the environment and transport committee was not answered, so I believe that the Council should consider this matter according to current legislation. It is clear that this is where we are going on the stage of the planning counsel and, in fact, basically, from my own, we know that the case belongs on the correct committee, i.e. Environmental and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u66	A respectable president. Of course, we on the Environment and Transport Committee thank you for the confidence we are being shown here. Actually, it's not the first time we ever vote on something like this. There have been proposals, not only from the state of the administration but also from members of the body of members of the body and councilmen, to address the environment and transport committee. On the other hand, we are faced with the fact that here is a seminary, and even if there is obviously a large number of the seminaries, the mood of Congress is more clear. I can't see any better than the fact that this case belongs in the General and Education Committee and I think it's very well arranged there, and I know that this committee will be very thorough and thorough in reviewing this fine subject from the prime minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u67	A respectable president. Of course, we on the General and Education Committee are willing to cooperate with this bill that falls under the category of lawsuits that the Committee is intended to deal with, the memory protection and the reservations. It is true that there is an overlap in local affairs, such as in many other matters about which the committee discusses, such as all issues involved in basic schools and music schools.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u68	V.E.G. President. I agree that this case belongs on the environment and transport committee because of Article 13. Committees on environmental and transport committees are told by the permission of a president: The Commission deals with environmental, planning and construction, research, counselling, protection and sustainableness in the general area of resource resources. There is more to this matter. The General Board of Education and Education is to deal with both legal and legal matters, human rights, civil rights, consumers, national and other religions and equalities matters, as well as academic and cultural and scientific and technical issues of the state. Therefore, I say that the right committee is, of course, an environmental and transport committee, just as it does on the basis of geographic matters, to date, a provision of the European Commission has been referred to. It agrees with what we have agreed on, which is a law from the Council, at the home of the Environment and Transport Committee. This shift is relatively new, and we must follow it, a respectable president. Therefore, I support that this matter is referred to the environment and transport committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u69	V.E.G. President. Despite what I'm having. The General and Education Committee made me feel pretty clear after reviewing this bill and discussing it a little bit last night that the matter is primarily about the environment and community status. True, it's about the Minja Institute, which has now moved for some reason from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Presidency. It's not a problem to discuss this in the General Education Committee, but we also need to start sending it for reviews to the environment and transport board, and here we've had discussions and letters on how long that time should be, the role of the committees that give reviews and how they're new. I think it's a matter of extreme importance. The president will pick up and try to explain in some way where the situation is at home. When I cross this bill, it's obvious that I will be able to support it on the environment and transport committee. That's more important than the committee I'm on, the Board of Education, and I'm not trying to disintegrate the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u70	A respectable president. During the last term, in 2010, we, who were on the Environment and Transport Committee or its predecessors, a transport committee, set up new organizational laws. This is where there is a change in the law that is actually an arrangement of action. Therefore, there is very strong material evidence that the matter is being discussed on the environment and transport committee. I haven't heard any evidence so convincing that this should go to a General and Education Committee unless it's discussed with my culture, but that's the big interest in this matter, of course, the self-sponsored community rights to be employed. That may be the biggest opinions involved. Therefore, this case is clearly at home on the Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u71	A respectable president. This bill deals with taking on important factors that are now in organizational law, called neighborhood protection, in certain aspects of the structure of the organizational laws, on the part of local relations, and on the part of the public. The decision of neighborhood protection also depends on the self - determination of the local community. Here, on a special bill, a specific part of the strategy and the decision - making authority of a minister is to be placed under his thoughts. It might even be claimed that this plan was involved with a management and monitoring committee, however, it is crystal clear that the seminary, organizational legislation and how objects are determined in rural areas, usually on the basis of planning, neighborhood protection and other factors, are at home on an environmental and transport committee. [[The president calls.]] Somehow it's so obvious.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u72	A respectable president. I would kindly say there is a misunderstanding involved in sending this case to the General and Education Committee. Truly, this is a question of protection and preservation, based on historical value, but the bill is about and merely concerns planning laws. The Management Board is on the board of environmental and transport committees and the affairs of the rural community, and it must be compared to issues on the hands of the Committee every day that are both the organizational issues and the affairs of the rural community. I'm wondering if it's the highest. For example, the minister of organizational matters is aware that this prime minister is suggested at 5 mg. Thirty-seven. Organizational legislation is removed as it takes place, and this is the only place in organizational laws where the word neighborhood organization occurs, which is a special new word in the 2010 Organizational Act, which was put in broad political consultations, both in the council and in the rural areas, and here it is suggested with a single pent line to be taken out. [[The president calls.]] I emphasize that this is a grammatical proposal that I believe is well-founded.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u73	Mr. President. I just can't see how to play the least doubt that this case should be conducted on an environment and transport committee. True, it is an amendment, but it is an amendment of laws, but these changes are all in the budget, so these legislation has nothing more to do with the law of order than its own independence as a law of its own. I think the most common word here has become rural or rural phase. Likely, the word "City " occurs between 15 and520 times and the organizational matters. There's really nothing in this but rural and organizational issues. What does 13. Environment and Transport Committee Parliaments? That it deals with environmental, organizational, and construction issues and later on on on the affairs of the rural government level and its division and the State. It's all about that. [[The president calls.]] The whole issue is about this point, so there can be no minimum legal doubt that, according to the Parliament, this matter should be addressed to the environment and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u74	Mr. President. I recommend a government budget for 2016-52019, the budget's budget. 1162, No. 688. This is the first proposal for the resolution of a four-year national budget to be submitted to the General Assembly, and it marks the milestone of its development in the government of government in Iceland. With this new work ethic, the Congress will be extended; as this ensures that there will be a much earlier development of the budget tailored to it, for in the plan a policy discussion focused on targets, core lines, and overall sizes in the early budgets of the budget management process. A good story is reported by the 2016 2016/2219 budget. It shows that there is a significant exchange of government funds. During the past two years, there has been a steady record of hundreds of billions of tilts in the years ahead, with prospects for increasing leftovers in the coming years. This provision has been used to seal off the money pool and to stop the debt collection of state funds, but it is clear to the real need for financial resistance in the state. It is important to continue strengthening the state's position over the years and that the federal debt that the proportion of land production continues to decline. This requires space to deal with the commitments of the state's funds, especially with pension bonds. Government activities have recently lost much of its support to the commercial growth of the public. Actions due to domestic debt problems have reduced housing debt and a small amount of payment. There have also been reductions in tax and tax costs, social security benefits increased, and space created to increase contributions to important issues, such as education and health. The goal is to improve rent - rent status and make it easier for the first purchase of an apartment. During the years that follow, improved Kingdom funds aims to further improve the standard of living in the country to a shorter and longer time. This will be best done by continuing to build up society's infrastructure, strengthening the health and welfare system, and also reducing individual and business restrictions. In order to do so, a great debt of the Kingdom will have to be unwinded and the weight of the interest will be reduced, as far as possible. In other words, it is almost possible to make the most of the cost of selling property in financial companies and remunerations to reduce debt. This reduces the cost of interest and recovery, allowing more space to develop for building up, tax doctors, or precautionary measures in terms of financial management, which will be used to balance the economy when necessary. It is still important to maintain the government's expenses and gradually pay up debts as I have come on, not only with property sales, but also to make use of the amount of money that may develop in the years that are expected to increase in this schedule. It might be said that they were made in a manner similar to that of a paid debt. The State budget aims for a gradual, steady, steady improvement that will result in at least 1% of GDP in 2018 and will continue to grow on a similar scale during the final year of the programme. This requires that the primary income of the state's budget without irregular joints remain almost unchanged as a percentage of land production but that the primary expenditures with no irregular joints grow slightly slower than national production so that the proportion decreases by 1% over the period. The plan estimated that the overall debt as a share of land production is expected to drop considerably rapidly and from less than 68% in 2015 to 50% in 2019 and is aimed at reducing it to at least 15% between these years. In recent years, emphasis has been placed on many basic measures and priorities for the administration of the State. About 1% of the government's holdings were being made on budgets for that purpose. two years, but a new budget has been given. However, the government still buys annual goods and services at a high level of 90 billion dollars. According to proposals made by a public shopping group in March of this year, $23/4 billion could be saved. every year, including by focusing on common shopping, high prices, reduced stores and long-term shopping plans related to the implementation of budgets. Based on the proposals of the group, it may take several years, but it is suggested that the first step toward changing the arrangement of the joint shopping institutions will be taken as early as this year. The State budget covers the state's investment as a percentage of land production remains unchanged, which is 1.2% in budget for 2015. This means that there will be any scope to implementing a regular and profitable project, both because new projects replace certain projects that will be completed during the period and because investment contributions will be increased to keep up with the growth of land production. The transport and scientific, research, and technological investment contributions are increasing and are aimed at completing the construction of a new hospital and design at the treatment core of the new home, which will be followed by its building. The breakdown of the tax system should continue to be reduced, while taxes will be reduced as circumstances allow in homes and employment and tolls reviewed. A further reduction of insurance and income taxes is proposed. Determination of tolls will have positive effects, including intensification of prices and may, in addition, be expected to increase over time. Some distance in the income side of the schedule is expected to take steps this way. Much of it is about the fact that such measures will be timed in terms of otherwise economic conditions. At the same time, a variety of system changes, e.g. in the company's tax environment and focus, including to create better conditions for innovation companies and incentives for foreign experts to work here on land. Large changes in the tax system were made in 2009 to 22013. Various new taxes were implemented, and tax rates were higher. In some cases, changes resolved during that period following criticism of their performance. At that time, certain legal adjustments were meant to be temporary due to special conditions in the state of government, some of which have already come true. The most important changes were direct taxation, especially income tax laws. Since its start, the government has been working on simplifying the tax system, making it more efficient, and reducing tax rates. The main changes that have been under attack since 2013 are reductions in individual income taxes, general tax decommissions, and insurance spending. There have been no major steps, but the first steps have been taken in advance. The changes in the value tax system in order to improve its effectiveness were maintained through the last year, a decrease in the budget taxation was accompanied by a significant increase in the number of bank taxes as well as the tax stock was improved. There was a wealth tax that was allowed to run its course, and the next year the electricity tax falls down. The money market was raised, the radio charge was dropped, the centennial fees have been freezed, the credit rate dropped, and the authority granted to use special tax savings for housing savings or the deposit system of deposit loans. The balance in the state's economy with leanless and sustainable government management is a strong foundation for the economy, stable and sustainable economy supported by responsible economic management is the main focus of the 2016-19 national budget, but the future economic forecasts will be one of the longest economic growth periods in recent Iceland's economic history. In the meantime, inflation is predicted to be at least one factor, continue to reduce unemployment, and continue to be handsome to the commercial gains of the public. In this economic situation, capital disposal is being carried out. It is of importance that the success and maintenance of economic stability will be achieved and that there will be reasonable social expectations. As the delinquency process progresses, the need to update the long - term budget of state funds according to the effect that delinquency can have on the state funds, such as changing interest rates and debt status. The progress of collective agreements is at present one of the main uncertainty and risk factors in the Icelandic economy, and it is important that these issues be resolved so that prices will not be disturbed. Otherwise, a reevaluation of the basis of the strategy will be required and may, among other things, affect the government's ability to take action, whether on the income or on the remuneration side of the programme. Thus, this may affect tax plans, may affect investment plans and other activities, such as housing. At the same time, stability in the economy is important for the preparation of funding decommissioning measures mentioned earlier. Mr. President. I'm going to let me celebrate specifically that we're here implementing what was legalized a few years ago, that at this point the council would come to this level of budget to discuss a long - term plan that was not only four years old but that would tell us a story about the main goals we want to achieve right away in the next budget. By means of the discussion and treatment of this proposal at the council, the first step is to shape a framework for next year's budget. This means accepting this proposal, or a decision on the main lines, for the overall budget of the next year for the development of the budget line and how we see the government's income during the coming financial year, what major factors might be involved. Of course, it must be acknowledged that at this time, i.e. the first part of the year, there are still some uncertainties in front of us that will settle. That applies to both the income and the payoff sides. Nevertheless, a huge step is to take up a discussion on these main lines, the policy points being set up here, because it is then a solid foundation based on conversation with the council to settle the framework for the next individual Ministry, which, in turn, form the basis for the next financial bill. This is what I have to say for my part, that it's a big step in progress. This is in the spirit of the principle behind a bill to legalize public financial matters, as is true not only of the immediate role of this issue but also of where we go in the long term. Until this discussion of space, how we will use it, whether there is room to cover our heads, and in what way it will be done when men have to tighten the belts, or take precautionary measures. This document presents a major way in which we can see the development of the income based on income as they are turning to the State today and the main emphasis the government put on the future. The same is true for the pay line. We have a set spending point. In fact, we here are focusing on how we see for ourselves that the budget line, the total cost of the state, can develop over the years, and will take into consideration an independent consideration of the primary expenditures and what is involved in this document, as I've traced it here. The key point is that we have a long-term economy-based schedule that paints a rather positive image, improving survival. [[The president calls.]] In the years to come, the Kingdom Fund's concentrations will be greatly improving, and the economy will continue to grow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u75	A respectable president. But I still feel that this is rather vague and may not be the way it was supposed to be. For example, I don't see a major cash frame for the 2016 budget, as it should be. Perhaps at the highest. Minister after bringing it, and we'll just wait for it to be put on the budget. That brings me to my attention on page 18. 22 of the European Union's GDP, which is spoken of as being greater than any EU Member State, either as a proportion of total expenses or as a proportion of GDP, is greater than that of Greece, often mentioned. So here's what it says: The most important subject in the management of the budget is to unwind the huge debt that the State has taken after the collapse of the bank... I agree completely with this objective, but I must be glad to ask, "How can I get to the top?" A minister of finance justifys having gone into debt abduction that will surely cost the government a sum of 100 billion when the greatest task is to pay off the debt of the state? It also says that this high rate suggests that the interest rates we offer are less than those of other countries. There must also be a lot of concern and sight of the sun in that regard. We also know that growth rate is generally low, but it can increase and will probably increase, and this will have tremendous consequences for us. However, we may be surprised at the low level of interest, but we obviously do not get the same benefits offered by others. Could be the top. A minister answers these thoughts only?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u76	Mr. President. We have two important issues here, one on the other hand, the implementation of this government budget. We do this so that we divide the plan into a major factor, i.e. fiscal expenditures, capital costs, implementation, maintenance and investment, on the pay side, and thus minimise the total amount. If we had gone on to further disunition, we would be in the position of needing the first quarter of the year to go so far as to divide the budgets of the next year and, in fact, to the future, to a special Ministry, which was not the idea of this document. This is what follows because these totals have been developed. Then there's a lot of money to go down to a special department and then a lawsuit for next year's budget. If the council wishes to go so far, I believe we must make quite a difference to be prepared to bring such a document in here. When it comes to growth, it is right. A senator mentions, the financial cost of the United States is too great. However, the benefits of government penalties are well supported by the homes of the country, which in recent years have been very serious in the New Bank on financial status. From what we stood up for, to strengthen the position of our homes, we need to strengthen the position of the State Fund, and we are in a position to do so. My opinion is that the government's debt in Iceland usually has to be much lower than that in most other nations. In this regard, I refer to the bill on official financial matters and the changes needed to be discussed, only by running a government fund and having a low debt that we can get at a better chance to get money on lower interest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u77	A respectable president. The thing about setting a budget for the Ministry is naturally what we are going to do will become a reality to the new government law so that we may as well get into the habit of it. I'd like to ask so many questions. On page 18. 40 is spoken of by irregular groups, which are quite numerous and can hardly all be classed by irregular groups. Then, for example, I'm talking about contributions to the apartment loans and pension debt. I miss the apartment loan fund that it has some future policy designed because there are huge amounts of money that really aren't in the hands of anything. It's the same with pension debt. It comes out somewhere, I don't remember exactly where, that it should be paid into the B department which is very good, but I didn't quite understand from the text whether it was supposed to be used to pay off the B ward or whether to borrow a loan. I didn't think that was clear enough. I don't expect the highest. Ministers have it all in their heads, but I feel that there is a particular lack of policy on the Slurpee loans. Here it is just assumed that it will not cost a government fund at all in 2018 and nothing in 2019 C.E. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's practical.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u78	Mr. President. That's right. Senator, we assume that in the future we will be working with these issues on the basis of a framework for the individual Ministry and topic field. But we haven't come that far today, so we'll get that bill. There is evidence that there will have to be considerable support for the administration if we are in a position to do such work and such planning. The figures in this bill are based on current information about the financial status of the fund, which has only improved. Of course, we hope that we will not have to place more money in the fund. Whatever plans they have for the future, it is vital that this schedule does not expect to continue as much as it once does in supporting the fund. Regarding the deposit of Penitentiary, it is assumed that it will begin in 2017 and that it will make room for this balance of payment with improved production. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u79	President. I think that's the best reason to join in the celebration. Ministers over the fact that this council arrangement is submitted for the first time. As shown in his case, there is much progress, though this document can undoubtedly be fixed and made different when it comes to experience in this regard. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, is it really impossible to avoid this because it says that there is a considerable reduction in debt over the period and that GDP will rise by 25% in the course of 2016-52019? The value of a debt goes down by 10%, but as far as I can see it, the sale goes very high at 30% in the Bank of Lands. At the Ministerial Ministerial Collaboration Assembly, it was announced that the Lands Bank would not be sold, but it would make some type of bank that would be expelled on a community base that can be good and counter proposals, which must affect the proposed sales of the Lands Bank. How does that suggestion affect the decline in debt?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u80	Mr. President. It is true that we expect the budget of the current year to start selling at the Bank of the Lands. We are still at an early stage in preparing for that assignment. This schedule does not change, as it has been in the past few years, based on the fact that the will of the council stands to rid the bank of 30% and to sell it. I believe that in conjunction with such sales, the council will need to take up a discussion of who will be the future holding of the state. I have personally imagined that the state will take the largest individual item in the bank, have a share of some 35 to40%, and thus be the dominant shareholder in such property. But I believe it will be important to explain to potential interested investors when it comes to how the State assumes the development of possession for a longer time and what plans are made to form stocks in the bank in a public market. To me, nothing has changed about this. This is one of our most important tasks. We can intertwin the government's impact on the government of the bank and the other goal of releasing property to pay off debts. We took on great debts to finance the Bank of Lands. He has made excellent returns, and that investment has become a success. The exchange of shares in the bank is not expected to result in any profit. It might be said that in that material, there has been a very careful way, only that the state will receive at least what he has laid down and that it will be new to pay off debt. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u81	A respectable president. So I get it, so I'm heading for the top. Ministers in the affairs of the National Bank have not changed, although another incident took place at the forward party council. That's another story. Travel is now the largest commercial outlet in the country, I think we can say, and we really trust in it. However, this national budget shows that, if any, the tourist sector will produce very little product. No economic growth is expected, and tourism does not bring us much. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna ask the secretary if he's not worried about this and if there's any ideas around here about how to fix this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u82	Mr. President. This raises a very important point that is produced in the Icelandic economy. In most tourism, where they were relatively low and where they were not a very high average wage level, we can try to influence them with the right decisions at home. It is hoped that this article will continue to grow and thrive, that it can provide a fine reward, and that it yields good profit. It will continue to return to the State in direct and indirect terms in tax pay and due to increased activity, but I agree with it. A senator, there is reason to support everything that can increase the production of tourism and that it builds up to increase the value of this large growth. It's amazing. This year, half of all tourists in 2006 will be added from the previous number. [[The president calls.]] It's just the addition from last year. Such is the growth in this article. [[The president calls.]] It's starting to turn in from one country to another.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u83	A respectable president. I want like others to begin by celebrating that this document has come out. That's very good. Naturally, many questions arise. I agree with the importance of the main objective of reducing the debt of state funds and would have wanted to see that the government's actions so far had been more evident in its importance, they haven't done it in my opinion, and increased production in the economy that I think is a huge and important project. Then there's one of these things that I see as an underlying problem in this, and there's plans for very small investments. Investment and government maintenance are very small. On page 18. 6 of the proposal exactly says: ▪ The low investment level of government over the past few years cannot be processed. In such a situation, financial resources work on which the growth potential of the economy is permanently reduced. This shows that there is nothing to increase government investments. They were to be 1.2% of gross domestic product, some about 4How5% of the year 2006-2007. To me, it is a collection of debts to avoid making the necessary investments to build up wood or to avoid the necessary maintenance. There's just need to be raised. It seems to me that it is in the words that if we don't even make copies, we're actually building debts. I wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of finance: Is this not a concern? Don't you think there is a need to create a deeper policy and higher ambition for public investment, and there is no obvious need? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u84	Mr. President. I can say that there is reason to take a careful discussion about the natural investment level of the government. We can see from the tombs that we have in the document that the government's investment level was very high in the years before collapse. In other words, we may have invested almost in the future beyond the average need, at least in those years, so we assumed that it would remove something. During the last term, I criticized it considerably that I felt that my investment was too detracted to save the maintenance of business operations. It was a course that was then followed. We also see in this document that while making a reasonably powerful economy, just keeping our ratios in place is a thorough task. As national production is growing, it is estimated that billions need to be added to an investment. We can see on a digging page. 7 When the job investment, this public investment, and other investments are combined, an investment in the country grows from about 150 billion to 250 billion in less than a decade. But to a large extent, it is driven by a positive job investment. A key requirement for future economic growth is that the job investment is taking over. Just eventually about the public investment, it is crucial that it is spent on projects that are economicly profitable. I'll mention that we're adding to the next 2 billion to the competitive fund and going up to 2.8 billion. It is the idea of supporting better than has so far been the case with innovation and technological development. [[The president calls.]] We are also faced with great responsibilities elsewhere, e.g. In the road system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u85	A respectable president. Yes, I think there is a need for investment after a very difficult year after a collapse, where I think society has been very crowded. Obviously they have to invest in nursing homes, health care structure, roads, innovation and research, I think it's a very wise investment, the structure of communications, the infrastructure of tourism, etc. This must be considered a lucrative investment, and if we do not put on it, we will miss out on profit. I miss it, and I kind of think that document gives it a lot of money. It is simply stated in one place that there will be some 61⁄2 billion allowances a year in new uninsurmountable investments, no comment on what investments it might be. Does this mean that there is no plan for investments? We are not just talking about the proportion of land production in investments. In the 2017, 2018, and 2019 program, the cost for investment goes up to almost nothing and is to be replaced by 30 billion. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a little ambitious for the position. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u86	Mr. President. When this long - term schedule is made up, there is no transport plan in itself, but it is one of the plans for building and investing in the road and elsewhere in transportation, and it is now setting up the Council from the Minister of Ministers to the next year. She's one of the pieces in this big movie. Another is what I mentioned: We're about to enter the competition fund. That's important. A third thing to mention is remarkable larger buildings that plan to build up, such as the House of Iceland, which I hope will meet for a need to rise. So is the design of a considerable number of projects at the national hospital, the Land Hospital, which has not been in there, perhaps not done on the necessary preparatory work so that numbers of these types have come directly into operation. [[The president calls.]] However, there you need to consider that if we make decisions about spending too much money on investments, we may need to make a compromise so that there will be room for that in the business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u87	Mr. President. I'm celebrating it like I'm the highest. Secretary of the budget that this proposal has come up and that we are finally taking up this budget for four years, as has been the case in the past since 2010/2011. In fact, such plans were made in 2009, 2011, and 2012, and were very helpful. I have previously made comments to the highest. In fact, the secretary of finance broke the tradition of making two last financial bills, that they did not follow independent literature, an independent national financial programme, although they might be found in part parallel material in a report. However, here is a strategy, and it's a good idea. Of course, there is another reason to rejoice that the situation has improved in our financial affairs since its worst, indeed, since 2008 when the state's funds were 14% of GDP, 217 billion at that value. A study of some of the tablets found in this publication shows that the recovery was then greatly improved in steps between 2008 and 2009, back between 2010 and 2011, not as much, and then a big step again between 2011 and 2012. Thus, in 2013 an ideal period came to a positive overall balance if irregular joints are overlooked. This was a major recovery, in large jumps, at a rate of tens of billions a year. Sadly, though, a gradual recovery is presented here. They may be commended that they are not trying to hide it, and they put it in an acceptable language. However, what is being proclaimed here is quite a different lameness in the course, relatively gradual recovery. It's so slow, you can call it station. That's disappointing. I don't think there's enough ambition in this regard because I agree with the highest degree. The financial minister that if we have been taught something by experience, there is at least one reason why we have to be in our public finances and probably because of the small economics and the sensitivity of some aspects of having more tables for others than others, walking away from a lower debt and greater distance to meet unseen things. I also plan to make the government's investment a little subject. They are spoken of as remaining unchanged, i.e. as a student about 1.2% of GDP. What does that mean? Yes, they are tried to put on the suit that there will be some room, as mentioned here, to carry on a major and profitable project, including. because when others finish, such as the construction of a prison on Hólmshön, or the construction of North Land March, there is some room to replace. Yeah, but that's not much. This year's challenge is that almost no new venture can be made on the road. Investments in our infrastructure are far too small. On page 18. 5 A chapter on national interests is a fun sentence. It says, by permission of the president: Since the economy began to grow again in 2010, national production has increased by 9.4%.◯ It is at least recognized here, Mr. President, that the improvement in the economy began in 2010. It wasn't always the highest. In 2010, the secretary of finance Bjarni Benediktsson explained that things have begun to move in the right direction, let alone early in 2010. The writer here wrote a series of articles in September 2010 called the Land of America, because I pretended to see the irrefutable evidence that the economy had turned around and that recovery would come in hand. That's right. A senator and leader of Bjarni Benediktsson made a lot of fun of this series, and he practically laughed at what was wrong, and there was something going on. So I thank him for verifying in print in his own budget program that I was right. For investments and for good reason. paritaprevir The Steingrímsson Steingrimurson also came on as a result of his being recognized here, and it's a serious matter, that this low public investment level, the percentage that lays. In fact, a senator named the entire public investment, including rural society, is not enough to renew and maintain the population in the form of wood and other valuables. That's what's going on with him, and he's losing it. Is that acceptable? Investment rate of only 1.2% of GDP is not enough. The problem is to pop into the future and gather it, which can lead to an even greater cost later. I think there's a lot of trouble with a man's setting things right. I believe that the plans for this government budget are too tight, especially in terms of the State's budget for investments and to do better with certain litigation groups. This is because the income side of the bill is much weaker than any previous budget and it is quite simple that the government will be caused by the government's decision of earnings, which consumes substantial amounts of money for two reasons, on the other hand, due to direct taxpayers. It's just said here that there is no end to a wealth tax, but there are 11 billion down. Fish costs yield billions less than they used to, and they could do, change to income tax for goods, felling sugar taxes, etc. For example, the figure is at least $3 billion. Although only half of these earnings or others had been spent on the foundation of the budget, and it would grow with us into the future, there would have been considerable room for increased investments, to pay off debt faster or what it was now. What is also weakened and it is not shown that the State is losing, not only taking on financial cost but also losing a considerable amount of money because of the government's penalties. That's a lot of money. During those years, the tax pay of the state and the cost of it comes from a weakened income base. This is reflected in your recovery, e.g. in the prime balance of the state funds, there is virtually no one in this schedule. A basic balance of state funds as a proportion of GDP shown on page 6. 19 In a table about the expected state funds to be collected from 2019 C.E. or the rate of recovery from the previous year. The improvement between 2015 and 2016 is 0.0%. True, the improvement between 2016 and 2017 is 1%, but is largely reversible the year after the initial recovery returns to 0.7% and resolves to 0.1% 2019. In other words, the basic equation is virtually unchanged, not getting better during this entire period of time. Perhaps I could have accepted as well as this gradual recovery in other aspects of the State's survival if it was because investments in the infrastructure or better performances in important spending areas as it would be to increase welfare issues, but it is not, and this leads to a very serious conclusion. For example, consider the picture on page 19. 18 will see that the co-administration is progressively interlocked and goes down to some of the lowest levels I predict it has ever been on in recent decades of Iceland's history if this is to be run to the end. It is simply a significant reduction in the amount of consumption. This will happen by leaving 29% of the gross domestic product as it was in the 2013 operating point when income and expenditures fell to 26% in 2019. Do you accept the initials with no irregularity - where will they be in 2019 C.E.? Down to 23.4%. It should be thought that there is a much lower proportion than humans can see in other parts of the North and other countries that we would like to compare with in terms of well - being. That's where I don't think it's the right thing to do. I think there are reasons why I'm both a economic disagreement, because I don't think it's a good thing for the economy, and, of course, a completely political disagreement. This will not be a prescription for anything other than cuts and difficulties in government expenses or management, and it will provide the future in the form of a poor infrastructure and poor service to those who need support from the State. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u88	Mr. President. This is fine and, in fact, happy that we can take a special discussion of the big movie, which is exactly what it is. A senator was doing, how these proportions are developing, the overall change, and so on, without our subsidies to the individual institutions. Of course, first about what happened during the last term, it was clear that after so much contraction, after we broke into a coop, we would be back to the resurrection. That was always ahead of us. Our criticism was that people were putting too much loads on their homes and jobs with new taxes, causing them to be too slow on the basis of circumstances, and we pointed to other means. It's part of the past. I can't see better than that. A senator is saying that we should give up both the rest and the higher expenses. This leads to the conclusion that there should be higher taxes in Iceland. That's why I don't agree. I think it's extremely important that we lift up with our job and lighten the homes of taxes that were specifically placed on both sides in connection with the contract and that this is just one key to the growth of the power of money. It was first in the last year that we restored the national product to the highest presurvival rate, and it was also the last year that we were able to get back to the highest level of money we've ever had. We got back the power of purchase that had been lost in the crash and as if it had been the best. What I'd like to say in general about the position, in addition to what we've seen in the past, is that I think when we look at the road now that we Iceland have never been in such a strong position because the basic sizes in the economy are well balanced. The goodness so - called 2006◯2007 was built on a large business hall. Here we have the basics in balance, and we are going to sail into that period, if basic factors exist. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u89	Mr. President. Many predicted that the last government and government action would choke all economic growth and mean that there would be no improvement. Even people in my own party said so. But what was the result? In 2011, we reached an interest rate of nearly 3%. This was no worse than it was, when just what took place, and we had been in the roughest two years in a row before cutting down expenses and raising taxes. You see, they found a mixture that at the same time meant that the economy could take over and grow. Yeah, I'm saying I thought that in this program it would really have to be both, quite more leftover, especially in the latter part of the time, and more expenses. It is in my opinion that there is no room for this program of 20 to 30 billion, let's say, and I would be quite content to divide it to half, to increase the investment in infrastructure, and in more effort to pay off debt, to pay more quickly on the future pension debt or so on. Indeed, economic growth is acceptable. We can then say: Well, if this works, there should be no need to be particularly concerned about the fact that the State needs more than the other efforts to support economic growth and to use stimulating measures. No, but then we do other things with the money, such as paying off debts or paying off on future pension bonds that do not have such an effect. This space would be relatively easy to create. It would be there, in the main, if two things had not happened, if the government had not given up this huge money and if the government hadn't taken the cost and gave up money to the extent that it was made in the government's penalties. Of course, they can then feed some of their secondary effects, the better interests of their households. Of course it has a good effect. But the crude image, from the viewpoint of the state's budget, is that space is narrower than previously assumed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u90	Mr. President. I draw attention to the fact that in the income plan or in the part of this management programme, the bank tax remains to be expected on the part of the time that gradually fades. It's affecting the income line. What has the government done in terms of taxes? You can see in a follow-up with a budget bill in the present year that the government's arrangements have combined paid more money because you and I have canceled the releases for wearing outlets from the bank tax. In this regard it can be summed up to the government's tax actions that these are lower taxes in homes, individuals, lower taxes on employment, all except financial companies and broiling. The result is more money to the state. Thus we closed the budget hole, and thus we were able to add to an important investment and into welfare matters, such as the Land Hospital. I like it. A senator is here to say we should raise the taxes again. The wealth tax is mentioned in the Bible, but in his first talk, I found why. A senator is protesting against the reduction of the income taxes we have been in. Not all of this will be chosen, either to follow the policy of maintaining taxes high and to place it in homes and employment to meet expectations for growing yields or not. I'm just saying that if you really want to stress a decrease in debt, it's as if you can do it on the grounds that taxes are raised by jobs and homes, but if you really look at the bill, it's so clear that you have large assets that you owe us which we're only supposed to sell back and pay off the relevant debt. That's hundreds of billions. There we can achieve such results to hundreds of billions. On the other hand, trying to skim the houses and the work of 10 to520 billion is not the way I like it. [[The president calls.]] I believe we should avoid it in the longest of songs. One essential factor that we follow a different course is that we look at it as closely as possible. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u91	Mr. President. I would have liked to have more time for this discussion, and I feel that we should negotiate that the next time this big plan comes in, it will be given a more dramatic talk time. It's very important that we discuss this on the depth of it. True, much will now be discovered that will result in its implementation. I read it this way that there is no new Landspians to start or to rise to the point of fall from his building by the year 2019 because there is no room for that in the program. I read it out of this government budget that it's not coming well when a transport program is being developed, then it's finally gonna be, because I'm in the hands of myself that there's almost no room for extra investments in the road system. It's just that way. It is simple to read it out of those magazines if you have some view of shame. The reality is that the current government would not have had to raise a single tax so that there would be a handsome space in the pursuit of additional government funds. She could even have dropped reasonable taxes, such as the insurance that she hasn't. I don't think that's gonna make any sense. But she has chosen to cancel a fortune tax, to reduce fishing costs, to reduce income tax on the middle level, to waive the country's substantial revenues by cutting down prices, including luxury merchandise, but to increase food taxes, but not to the point that it is sufficient for the change to come out on a plain. It's dropping electricity taxes next year, and so on. And it has gone into debt that significant costs and lost future income are inexpensive. It's the basis of this plan. This is reality. I just say what I believe is that it's disappointing how sick this is, that there's no room for growing investments, e.g. ... ontheminder oftheking state of the interior. This would not be a good support for economic growth if, for example, there were less times, or in the latter part of this program. [[The president calls.]] Then something better be done. They didn't just get away with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u92	A respectable president. I think it's a very informative discussion we can have here. I agree with the last speaker, the emphasis on this is not surprising to me. This is just what has appeared to us in the budgets that this government has laid before us. As it's a pleasure to know that this plan is in place, and we'll see in the past, you're not necessarily happy with everything that's presented in it. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned that the consumption of the Memorial will decrease over the period covered by this strategy. I just want to say, don't you think we need to be surprised? Is that not exactly what we hope for from the present government? When we talk about this program, the political emphasis becomes very clear and the recent developments show that the emphasis is less on those with less than an increase in the means of caring for more. There's talk of changing the income tax system. It's got to be going on one step. The report says that it produces more efficiency, but it also reduces the recovery of the tax system and somehow we exchange it. [[The president calls.]] I just wanted to know if the senator doesn't agree with me that we don't have to be surprised at what is presented here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u93	The president wants my motive. Councilmen are to respect deadlines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u94	Mr. President. No, we need not be surprised if we have a right tinge on this plate. That is to be expected. But you might ask: Did the candidates really study this? Do they know what this means when it comes to almost two of the budgets, that there's really nothing to be done, there's nothing to be added to roads or anywhere else? Have people figured that out? All I see is that it's a check. Is there a tendency to interfere with the tax system and to reduce the balance of income? I rushed into that section and read it, but to my delight, there was nothing new to say about it. It's just referred to some plans for the future, but when I look at the tax-change bill, it's earmarked another, a decrease in toll, and such things. This is why I'm planning to make some changes, at least. which would lead to loss of income in the income tax system, have gone no further into the future, and is well qualified. I'm saying that the recovery rate is way too faint, yes, and I'm also doing it on the basis of what we're saying about our communities. What a disappointment it is to see on page 19. 47 on the program that people do not expect to get any relief over the next four years. She'll wear irons, tails for the next two or three years, and then some leftover 2019. The rural population stays under zero or at zero for the next four years. For the greater reason, the State would take more weapons than this. The balance is mainly twofold in our system, through the way of earning money, that it is done in a prosthetic way, but more important is the equation that takes place through the arrangements, ensuring schools without schooling, and access to health services regardless of income. There is even more equality in the country. The more weak the equation is, the less the shared consumption, the weaker the welfare and equality community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u95	President. Hv. A senator wondered if the Prosecutors had taken a look at this and saw the vision here drawn up. I'll take it as if it were a question. A senator, not least in the light of an article I think appeared in the News newspaper today after the day. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir speaking of the importance of community help and of society's equation. It doesn't look like it's headed that way. Then it will be interesting to ask the women in particular who speak a great deal about equality and social justice, while it seems that they support a government that goes away very much. Well, maybe. A senator explained to me just one thing? He says that he does not see the place in this program that there is room for the construction of the Land Hospital. Could he be a little more comfortable with me through the way he reads it out of this plate?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u96	Mr. President. Among other things, I read it from a chart on page 6. 19 Since the financial investments of the prices on which this strategy is listed are listed, I expect the high number 2016 because it is still a part of the debt charge. Then maybe. A senator saw the total cost of investments at 30.2 billion, 30.7 billion 2018, and 32.3 billion 2019. This is no increase, because it hangs on to 1.2% of GDP. To put a considerable amount of investments in a new hospital, you would have to dump so much more because there's no new money that I don't see it happen. On page 18. 21 is also discussed, and it says, by permission of the president: The plan to complete and complete the LSH treatment core, including 860 million, is also expected to complete this level of investment. K. increase of donations in 2016 and 5.1 billion dollars. expenses during the period Within this schedule, there is clearly no amount of money expected to get the new core into a plane. That's because the space is so narrow, as I've been in before. How's that? Yes, income hangs in a similar area as a share of GDP, but charges decrease by 1%, i.e. the primary expenditures, but it is then assumed that interest charges will decrease by 1% of GDP. Therefore, the total expenditure will decrease by 2% of GDP at this time. The range of reduced interest payments up to 1% of GDP, $19 billion, is not new in investments or anything else. Rather, it builds up the development of the project to reduce the State's interest rate. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's shown hunting, not given as we know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u97	I agree that in itself it is a pleasure to have this document shown, but I would have liked to see it more closely, as if I at least understand the Conventional Act, that this is not only a huge box, but also the frameworks that are to be covered by the Ministry. In view of the initial events, i.e. that this is a matter of government policy, I think it's a bit slow to talk about policy, except to a very small extent when we don't know what to go to the job plan to contribute to, but only income and expenses in the big context. As far as I'm concerned, there's no way you can talk about the policy in the frame-shaped structure, not the way I've understood it. I don't understand the synopsis proposal, but that's how I understand it. I would have thought this comparable to what we would expect to do with a new set of government laws. There's something else in this program. Here's a time line, so I'll finish what's going on with this spring plan. I don't know if it is symbolic that it is due on June 19th from a government that is a very important day, and hopefully it will proclaim something good. What I wanted to talk to you about is just a few things. I didn't find out that there was some misunderstanding earlier, but I wanted to reflect on the changes we're finding here. All of this is characterised by more and less uncertainty, uncertainty in all these major factors, uncertainty about the effect of decommissionation, and no consideration of how it might happen here. It is not taken into account in the market where we expect a 5% increase in salary and the pay number has on average been around 6.7% in the past 20 years. Yet, this is expected to be lower numbers than reality is expected. Whether it is responsible to bring up a plan like this, it may be clear that it will come about by making huge changes. I think we can sort of agree that this plan will make huge changes. Of course, the contracts are part of the premise, as is stated here as one of these uncertainty factors, but to merely estimate for a standard salary I don't think is reasonable. There are several factors, e.g. that we are not so a student as to pay off debt with ran around. If there is to be any updates on the income tax system as presented here, it is still not implemented. It speaks of the continued 1% continuation requirement on page 8. 20 In view of the previous government budget and 5.5 billion dollars. Acceleration is required. I am concerned that although it is expected to protect the health system, it is not exactly subtracted. We know that it may get stiffer than that. Then there is the treatment core of the Hospital. Of course we're wondering about him, and I'm going to ask the minister if he's going to be able to finance the home hospital in any way other than directly from the state fund where it's not shown here, as discussed earlier. It would be interesting to know. It is similar with aging. It has been discussed that there is an increased need for measures, both in nursing homes and in aging institutions. I can't see that it's being handled in any decisive way. The report explains that nursing should continue with the rented route. I do not criticize it, but this calls for an increase in the financial resources of the elderly. One of the things that also call my attention to this is 160 billion taken here as irregular fees. I wondered how a minister sees fit to make up for how many teams are kept out of parentheses, since this cannot all be regarded as irregular forces in this room. There is a record of a considerable amount of what is listed as irregular teams, and the National Reconnaissance feels that these are not to be moved in this way, but that irregular joints are something unique, something that happens once, or that at least they are not on a regular basis. They list each year, and I think it's very special. Then we will discuss the sale of 30% shares in the Bank of Lands, as a minister came in. You ask yourself, " Is that a political wish? ' In any case, another has been observed, last today in the public address. True, the profit in this suggestion is not expected, which is positive. On page 18. 24 Reveals the Presidency in the Pension Fund, LRS, i.e. B department, it's supposed to be about 5 billion a year starting in 2017. It is said of the provision of loans in a funding stream that includes the payment of the account every year on the payment base of 5 billion, i.e. ... toimprovementof manual funds, as shown here. Then you see, as it is said here, that things are set aside for this purpose. I'm just wondering if a little bit and a secretary will answer the question when he closes this case if he's going to take a loan to settle into the B department or if he's going to make a business trip. This can be demonstrated in the management plan that it will not, i.e. There will be no borrowing, but will there be enough land to finance these payments? On page 18. 36 is referring to a number of economic growths. It has large sections, which we have often discussed with a financial committee. I agree with what was said before, this is far too short a time to discuss this matter, but there is expected to be more tax growth in some cases, considering demographic development and built - in system growth. In particular, there are 3% of the absolute growth in pensions and S-marked drugs and 2% in Pension bonds. I'd be interested to know if a minister thought that the S-labelled drug plan, which has increased very recently, is due to the need to take new drugs that have been delayed for many years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u98	Mr. President. First of all, when can the State's Penitentiary be paid, I believe that it is not a real situation to do so until we have a positive payment. The plan aims to start a deposit starting in 2017, which I would have so much like to have since 2016, but still, from that year on, this commitment begins to be added to the future and thus further pushed the state to the full extent of its impact. In my mind, this decision is made to start a deposit that will be followed every year, or it doesn't count much. Similarly, there is tremendous success, as can be seen in the previous SSR report, by regularly paying regular attention to such commitments, it can be avoided if not decades before this land happens for many years. The second thing that was asked about is stolen from me right now... [[S-labelled medicinal products.]] What I wanted to say about them is that the positive signs are now that we are taking over at that expense. Among other things, there has been dissociation from Land Hospitals and Medical Insurance that plans have begun to work out so much better, and we are not expected to get out of bed in a similar way that we have long been doing. [[The president calls.]] There's been a lot of success in getting plans to get on with the S-labelled medicines.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u99	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I agree with the pension fund that we need to master it so that we don't get overwhelmed one day and we don't have a government fund to deal with. That is one of the very things that we have discussed in a financial committee. I'm not quite clear, though, that a management plan will show that we don't have to charge that loan. Rather, it'll only become a business change of 5 billion years each time it's an earmark. Although we may be getting hold of the S-labelled medicines, I'm worried about them because we haven't been taking any new medicines. Since the hospital has had to store all of that, I believe that it has developed a cumulative need yet to arise. That's why I'm asking if it's true what's being said here. I spoke of aging. It is noted in the report that the way to rent should continue and that it is positive to me, which calls for an increase in funds in the elderly. Did I miss that they were expected somewhere in this program?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u100	Mr. President. We do not have as much disunited numbers behind this government plan as we do. There's a senator calling for it. We're looking at the big picture, what the situation would be on the basis of the statistics we have in our hands. What are the Organization and the Councilman telling us about the future? What do economic predictions look like? What effect would that have on the income side? What's the situation on the remuneration side of the state fund? How will the future interest rates become unchanged? And then we set out the emphasis, a guide, a set of criteria for the results we want to achieve, and that's the basic discussion here. As we have discussed in the future, we are going to take steps even at this stage, i.e. Early in the year, let's break this down and break it down to a unique field of affairs for a special Ministry, but we're not doing it so disintegrating here. Nevertheless, there is a strategy that clearly highlights, and plans are likely to be discussed in individual areas. All I'm saying about the S-labelled drugs is that we need to realize that the cost will be growing in the future. These are expensive drugs, highly developed drugs, many of which we can expect to develop in these and other areas. But how important it is that plans are going, that is a very special matter from which we give space each year. We're looking at the big movie, and it's because we see the tax burden down, that as much of the government business is increasing, and the debt ratio is dropping. That's a very bright picture coming up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u101	Mr. President. I agree that the government's situation has improved, fortunately, as it was before. Thank you very much. Minister for the counter-sponsore. Still, there are always a few things that the politicians take naturally, and I rolled them up now, although, of course, they can. Ministers don't come up against me, if we see, for example, next year, at this time, because we're here to talk about big things, the bigger things, etc., the more we could talk about things. This is to be completed by the government in the second part of May and the beginning of June. I understood this so that we would discuss the boxes at the spring convention in view of this possible bill on public finance and then take a deeper discussion in the fall but not that it would be almost all. I think it all goes until the next fall, considering what we have here in our hands. In many ways, it's a very punctured pad. Just for the rest, I'd like to refer to page. 26 A large proportion of the increase in income and expenditures from the previous schedule is discussed. This is due to a change from the 2nd and 3rd. The budget bill for 2015. These growth goals we have been inclined to compare with may increase the level of government activity, and there is nothing necessarily in line with the public financial bill, so I think that most of us are in that we may need to adjust those criteria when we submit to the financial bill and aim for our overall success.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u102	A respectable president. We're going to discuss a proposal for a resolution of a state budget for 2016-2019. It's very well. It's true what happened at the highest. Ministers, there are positive signs, but the nature of the matter in accordance should always be cautious when it comes to public finances. Let us keep in mind what the big things are when it comes to financial matters. It is a joy to see that much of the discussion has been there. The big deal is simply the debt of state funds, pension debts, changing the population's ages, and, of course, the development of government spending. We are now at that spot in exchange for expenses according to the litigation of health issues and then social security and welfare issues. It's the biggest episodes, but not far behind, it's a budget that we have to pay off, the interest fees of the state's budget. While the interest costs are so high, we are planning to impair the standard of living for our children and grandchildren. They are higher each year than all our donations to the land hospital and health insurance. These factors do not involve certain debts that we need to pay. One thing is that we hope that we will never have to pay, Kingdom responsibilities, which are 1,300 billion. I think most people think it's mainly during activation. This is not the case, 900 billion of the 1,300, one and a half Icelandic budgets have come from an apartment loan fund. I think we have the wrong system for housing. This has cost us enormously, as has our home. The growing charges are just turning to these traditional state debts, the extracurricular commitments that were in the B House about 400 billion by the end of 2012. If it hadn't been paid in 1999-2008 - the person most likely to be paid to do so was then the highest. The minister of finance and prime minister Geir H. Haarde - would not be 400 billion, but 600 billion. A small thank you was given to the person. The debt failure of the B Company and the Pension Fund, which we are also responsible for, will be 2027. This will be a failure to pay on these pension funds, and it needs to be paid at least 20 billion more from a government fund for ten years and then paid down. It has been mentioned that we have high interest rates, which are quite right in comparison with other nations, but it must still be kept in mind when comparing ourselves with other nations that in one place we stand much longer, i.e. When it comes to pension funds. Even the strong nations that we compare with us, such as the Germans and the French, have virtually no possessions in pensions. But it is clear that in the years that come, these elderly nations will have to pay enormous sums of money. Of course, the Greeks don't own anything as you know, but Germany has only 5.5% of GDP while we Icelanders own 130%. Yet we're a lot younger than the Germans. There is a flow system, which means that the State Fund of their countries is committed to paying pensions to those who get into pensions. I named the third episode, which is a change in age composition. The people are rapidly growing old. Those aged 67 years and older will increase by 50% in the next ten years. The cost to those 65 years of age and older in health care according to OECD figures is four times higher than for younger ones. We will see them in the next few years a fundamental change in Icelandic society. The number of over 67 years of age will increase dramatically. Yet we are in younger nations. The world's oldest nations are Germans and Japanese. I saw in The Economist the other day that the number of Germans will decrease from 80 million to 60 million in a relatively small number of years, whether 20 or 30 years. This is one reason why we need to build a new hospital. We see an enormous increase in the need for days of beds for 60 years and older in the years ahead, but there is no need for an increase in the population for those under 60 years of age. The increase goes from 100,000 to 200,000 between 2010 and 2050 at the hospital. Similarly, we need to build a number of medical facilities and, in reality, compared with our current plans, if we are to spend the period of waitings and diversity, we need to build two new land hospitals, one traditional land hospital, and another that would be a nursing home all over the country. We are talking about a tremendous increase in expenses, so we need to set priorities for basic services. A little has been said about it and here is not going into little things. However, behind the big picture there are expenses for individual lawsuits. We have made plans so that when we're working on the budget, we can't even see what the trend has been about funding for the individual institutions of the State. Sadly, in recent years we have not set priorities for basic services. There were new federal expenditures during the last term, for example, an investigation of the Fall of Icelandic banks, the cost of national meetings, administrative committees and legislators, World Congress prosecutors, the National Courtship, the U.S. commission, which is, of course, an undercalculation, a vote for a administrative body, a national hearing for a proposal of legal advice and adulation. All of this is 7.2 billion bucks. Someone would now have said that it would have been more wise to make money at the Land Hospital or some other basic service. That's 7,200 million. K. I don't think most people are gonna be impressed when they look at the story. If we look at individual institutions from 2007 to 2012, for this is better than comparing them to 2008, which was a slightly promoted bill as we know, the priorities have not been established by some health or social institutions, but primarily by the surveillance industry, by various environmental institutions, individual cultural institutions, and the foreign languages. This is what we've put our priorities in, and this is the wrong priorities, a respectable president, and we have to take the big numbers. That is what we need to discuss, but we also need to get into our business because we need to make more use of our money. During this ideal period, contrary to what has been said many times, the figures show that, fortunately, health and welfare priorities have been set. If we consider the contributions to the Land Hospital, we will see that they have increased by 20% since this government began. If only the price had gone up, the land hospital would now be about 5.6 billion lower. If we want to go to the pay number, we'd be doing some 3 billion less for the hospital. The rate for health care has increased by 1%, a respected president, as a percentage of government spending during these terms. Similar figures are on the welfare issues. The important thing is that we especially need to consider what we can call a total conference in the affairs of the elderly. We need more resources. We have to put flexibility in the end, equal rights focus, and raise pension age. We must prioritize our government, just as all families and businesses have had to do. Some things have to be avoided. We have to adjust the government. We must sell properties, like the highest. Minister mentioned, to pay off debt. It doesn't make sense to pay all this interest. And we need discipline on state management. Discipline in the government simply means that you have to follow the laws of the law. It's been a problem in Iceland that we haven't. If we want to get to the same place as the countries we compare with us, we must. We were in Sweden the other day, visiting the leading institutions on these issues. Then it was confirmed again that politicians can't get away with praising things they don't stand for. If they want to put extra money on something, they have to explain the source of their money. Similarly, no matter what institutions they are, executives do not get up in their own institutions. Then, the big issue in all of this is that we need to build something more valuable. One way we do this is by simplifying the tax system and reducing the curses. Although we need to go further, we are happy to see evidence in this long - term schedule. [[The president calls.]] We need to take further priorities in basic services, and we need to take more tax reduction. But this is certainly a very good document and a good start, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u103	President. I agree with what. A senator who needs discipline in the state's affairs. We do not fully agree on priorities or on whether it is most important to reduce taxes to those with the highest income or not to raise financial expenditures, there are things that we do. A senator disagrees, but we agree that there is a need for legal discipline. You're absolutely right, the senator's spending a few hours here saying, "The population's natural age is changing. " We are all getting older, but fortunately, there are more children, and we can see them if we walk the Hot Sea, especially when the weather becomes better, that there are young people who have lots of children. Happily, it is not to us like Germans, where the younger people are growing, and the older people are growing, so all these proportions change. Just because of this changed age combination, that's why. A member of the body of elders to increase the need for hospital space as well as a nursing home. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon went through this document. He can read it very well, as if well. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson. He cannot see that there is money in this program to build the Land hospital. [[The president calls.]] Well, maybe. A senator lightened my worry and said, "Yes, the money is there?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u104	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. That's right. We agree on a lot of things like why. A senator crossed. She reviewed various factors that I find very interesting. I may not be quite prepared to write up that I am a politician whose goal is to lower taxes for those most of them. I won't. I know, however, that if we put too much taxes on those most of them, they can go, they're the ones who can go wherever they want. For example, the richest Icelanders don't pay taxes in Iceland, they meddle in things in Iceland, but they don't pay taxes here, they just choose other places because they can do what they want. Then we can ask ourselves, " Do I want some of these taxes or not? ' That's different. You're right next door. Well, a senator about the young people, which, fortunately, still numbers us, so you just keep talking straight, people are having children, but I'm worried about family policy. I'm worried about the housing, and I'm worried that it's making it harder for family members. I think we need to do better in this regard. A respectable president. Here's the big numbers. It's not part of the world. This document complies with the emphasis the government has had. The government has had them, and we can only see them directly in numbers as I considered the contributions to health care. They have increased their means of making financial contributions. We have to go that way. But I think when it comes to investments, we need to do better. We need to set more priorities. That's what I think we need to do. There's not a division of individual teams here. We have to invest more. That's our job. It seemed to me that the audience agree on this, but then, when it comes to setting priorities, it might become harder to get together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u105	A respectable president. I thought why. A senator does not quite answer my question about whether there is room in these investments, whether he is definitely counting money there for the construction of the Land Hospital. Hv. A senator will be talking about the surveillance industry, which he says we spend too much money on. I don't agree with you at all. I believe that in order to use the marketing system, we need market surveillance. We need competitive surveillance, financial monitoring, and Pharmacovigilance, so we need all kinds of surveillance so that we can post a particular project on the market, but we don't have to get involved in some kind of government operation. That's why I think surveillance agencies are very important. It's impossible to get anything. To be myself, even if only a little agreed on in this regard? Didn't we learn anything about the fact that this market had to waltz around, that the surveillance went crazy, and that we almost broke it? Are we not going to learn anything from it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u106	A respectable president. Thank you for these questions. Senator, we're just leaving with Land Hospital. We need to finance the case according to the nature of the case. I'm on a government board and I'm telling you that we were reviewing that case and blessing them on our part the other day. That's what's about to start. This is not either a dignified president. No one claims that there should be no surveillance. Eight o'clock. A senator sees that the SEC, and this is after a collapse, has grown by at least 200%? We have the biggest financial monitors in the world, and it was not a lack of financial security to teach that the banks failed, the rules were not missing. They crashed all over the world. That was because this regular environment was completely broken, including Because it's so complicated. We have the largest financing in the world, but we still watched financial institutions collapse. They did not even meet legal requirements, such as Byr and SKef, by means of this huge check. It is not the same as the results of money under observation. At this time, there has been an increase of 94% in an equal office, 93% in the Food Organization, 73% in this period. What are the main institutions of health care, the ones that have the greatest increase? The surveillance agencies, the Institute of Medicine, 52% and 51% of the surgeon's office. I wonder where the Landspit is, the man we are. A senator views both kindly? It's below the average, increased 22%. I'm just saying, "Yes, keep an eye on it, make it simple and understandable, that you can apply it, and make the same requirement for management of organisations, such as health institutions or institutions of education. " Is that unusual, more distinguished president? Why should one component go free and raise indefinitely while being strangled? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's wise, more dignified president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u107	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a proposal for interpretation of the state budget for 2016-2019. Such proposals are inferred and submitted in accordance with 6 mg. 25. Act of the General Assembly and the first act of enforcing it. This is a turning point, as the discussion has shown, and it is effective. Like the rest of them. Senators who have addressed the discussion, I would like to agree with that statement. In accordance with this article, the highest rate is reached. Secretary of finance is now forwarding a national budget until the next four years. This is the big movie, and it always raises up conversations like the ones we listened to in front of a speaker who went ahead of me. paritaprevir But Guðlaugur, the Þór of Þórðarson, answered back. paritaprevir It's Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for surveillance. The discussion brings up the nature of the issue as we consider the big picture, discussing the various issues. I'm glad you're here. It is very important for all financial work and the entire financial process, already started for the next year, that we go over this picture on time. It is time for us to follow such a policy process and to develop a budget related to the budget and the policy being prepared. Of course, there are important decisions that will affect the plan as it lies here and the pace of the government. We can mention collective agreements, we can mention results in housing measures,gain emissions, perhaps least of the emissions of the seawaters, which most important measures to protect the stability that has been achieved. As I came into this office, a plan like this and going through it on time will make a clearer picture of the situation so that the work is rather successful that government matters will be subject to more policy. We can see how the turnaround comes about, on what basis, what we should preferably use the amount of time that is shown in this program and follow the progress of the plan. A respectable president. It is also important for all, not solely, of the members of the Parliament's budget, or of those involved in working funds from the side of the European Commission, in councils and institutions, to identify basic lines and key sizes of government revenues, exchanges, and debt development. For the next four years, revenue management programme in addition to the rest taken after two losses, the positive results, and is actually the goal of improving the country's standard of living. It is a major goal, and it is a burden to be on hand while extending the debt of state funds when we are talking about improving the standard of living in order to build up and strengthen our social infrastructure, health systems, welfare systems, education, and transportation. The plan draws out that I know very well both in the text and in the number form of the main lines we can and that we need to understand in this context and in our policy. Here are some things that would be worth more attention and depth. I would like to mention a section on investments on page 18. 6th This is where investments are not enough, and I agree that it is normal to worry that investments will not hold back. What does that mean? This means possible deterioration to the future, i.e. less room to increase physical growth and improve quality of life. V.E.G. The government has added to the competitive fund, and it is very important that the job investment and the government's goals on it are increasing. Thus, an investment plan that specialises as part of a total budget in the budget we are considering is very important. It is obvious that there must be a very careful discussion of that subject and that the future is in place, planning that an investment in this area will be over normal reinvestment, regardless of what we say. This is a piece on page 18. Six most respectable presidents. Then we will see on page 19. 14 of the future economic growth. I mean, in recent years, it's been quite successful building here under the basics. Then I'm talking about my career, my business, my home, and my prospects for this. On page 18. 26 shows that this year, 2015, there is a better prospects for living than the one left, and especially for increasing energy in the workforce. It is, of course, very well. I haven't really considered the numbers behind it, but all of this is worth looking at. On page 18. Thirty-four are discussed on tax policy. When we're talking about the context of the plan and policy, it's going to be in this and there, in particular, the reduction of insurance costs, which I consider very important to build up the future job life. So has the discussion called on a budget plan and that it could have been further divided. I believe that it will be in the years to come, then we'll see them disintegration, I'm not gonna talk about if we go into the environment where we're going to take a bill to legalize public finances, that they're more like setting up a frame of discipline. I think everybody's down. Congress officials agree that he is important in all financial and financial contributions. I'd like to use this opportunity to celebrate the coming of a council proposal for a state-of-the-art financial program at this point. I believe this plan will be of great value to all the work that is going on in the process of enforcing policy in terms of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u108	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his speech. He only came in on a conversation I had here with why. paritaprevir Guðlaug Þór Þórðarson, God told him about the surveillance industry. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þórðarson calls it that way. There, we disagree completely, me and the good man. Senator. So, as I said in my objection, I think it is absolutely necessary that in order for us to run a modern market system, the markets need to be under surveillance. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on his position on this matter, e.g. Food management, Pharmacovigilance, and surgeon's office to monitor health institutions. These institutions are as great a thorny as any of them. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, the son of Thor, passed by. The last speaker before him? I was really disappointed with it in the schedule presented here that insurance fees did not decline more than they did. I would like to ask, What is the position? To further reduce other fees, merchandise, or tolls, or what are they called? Not that I don't want to lower it too, but I'm opposed to putting it ahead of insurance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u109	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for the questions and answers. Let's start with the surveillance industry. I don't have the numbers that are available. paritaprevir The Gudgle of Þór Þórðarson had written about the proportions and evolution of what we could then call the surveillance industry. I don't mean that there's anything negative, but I can say in general that I'm a follower because the market should have the work he can handle and the competitive conditions that such a person can offer. As soon as we're on our way, it's very important to keep a market for competitive surveillance. Because in this context, I'd like to say that active competition is a top priority in the market. There is one example of a very important monitoring agency that I think we need to strengthen and consider to be a legal environment in that regard. In terms of the insurance bill, you would have hoped that it could have been done more quickly and more, but it has been done in this program. It's very good for us to see in advance what the decline will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u110	A respectable president. I'd like to say that professional life might have wanted to see your insurance pay down more than it really is. In fact, I am surprised, and I was surprised at the last budget bill, too, that this government does not focus more on reducing the insurance bill. You see, the insurance will help the little companies. It's so important that they do what they say. It is indicated in this suggestion that there will be a reduction in intermission during this period. Hv. A member of the council has some social concern, I believe, and I ask: What position does he have that it is clearly seen to reduce the share and reduce the social aspect of society? [[The president calls.]] How does he feel about that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u111	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator later answers. It speaks of small and medium-sized enterprises, which, of course, are the driving force in our economy. I can only agree with what. A senator, it would certainly be an advantage for them to see here a faster and greater decrease in insurance. Regarding the combination, I came to see in my speech that the combination is very important, and it also shows that we support our basic systems, our welfare systems, our health systems, our transportation, and our education systems. That is where our priorities should lie, for that is what we are. A senator wholeheartedly agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u112	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's talk and would like to ask just a few questions. It appears at the bottom of the page. 34 that the minimum tax steps should be reduced with the final objective of adding them to one step. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether this is the tax policy he supports and, for example, whether it is in the best interest of the occasion now, the goal that may be less useful to those with the lowest salary than are paid. Another factor that may be less relevant to those with less than one hand is the maintenance goal of 1%, which is to have in all different categories. This should be due to a 5.5 billion decrease in expenses, and this should be part of an annual budget. I understand that then we're going to gather about 5.5 billion at that time. Has a what? A senator doesn't worry that our system, our infrastructure, is like a health system and education system we've talked about here, has something cut off? While you may assume that it will be somehow spared, it is not being brought forward here. I'd be interested to know how he can see these two things in his previous storm.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u113	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the questions. The first question was the income tax shown on page 20. 34 that it is more efficient. I'm not at this moment ready to sign that's the way. I'll have to make sure it doesn't come down on the equation. The congregations are of great importance to us. It is a very positive development that is taking place in all discussions about the equation in the world. International Institutes, the World Bank Fund, OECD, whatever, point out that there is one of the key pioneers for economic growth. That's what we're focusing on when we're moving the tax system. I'll sign it when I've seen it coming, meditate on it, and confirm that one step guarantees the equation - but sooner or later it doesn't. I've balanced myself completely for reference, and I'm guided by the fact that we're looking at the income tax system. The second question involved a conservative goal. I think all maintenance goals in general are positive. They lead us to look at every corner, every way, every possibility we can save. It shows that there is room for saving, e.g. in every system about public shopping. The priorities are always in our basic systems, our health systems, our welfare systems, our education systems, our transportation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson's background, and he's happy to hear this about our involvement in the income tax business. There is, then, likely to be a prior cause for what is presented here by the senator regarding, among other things, this course. With regard to the other subject I asked, shopping and so forth is not always possible if this is to exist for the next year. I agree that we can find some economy, but I'm worried about these institutions. Other things I have just wondered about are the irregularities on page 18. 33 or mainly on page 13. 40. 160 billion are irregular joints. A public review tells us that irregular joints do not exist unless you have a single - change operation. Then I ask: How are we going to influence these teams? We're not exactly considering this, i.e. each step, because they are always taken out of parentheses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u115	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator later counters and a question facing an irregular team. My traditional understanding of accounts is that irregular joints are the ones that occur irregularly and once. As a result, I cannot help but agree with it alone. On page 18. 40 are set up for these activities. A senator did not come to any particular team, but this is certainly large sums of money and large groups that we will have very little doubt when referred to a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u116	President. I thank the senator for his good speech. It's such a matter that you can sink into their different joints over a long period of time. One thing that really stings you in this is public interest, and it's very devastating that Iceland seems to be setting some record in this like so many other things. I wanted to ask you what. A senator's opinion was that the priorities should be on the issue of halting these enormous interest charges. It's very important to have this overview of the government budget, but I have a little need to understand the bigger picture. We have a lot of major solutions, and there are times when we don't do things at the right time, we can miss opportunities and we'll be right back in the head, e.g. due to increased interest costs. I'm going to ask the senator later on to the address on the premises because, of course, it's hanging with this, but most of all, I'm interested in hearing some ideas about how to deal with these huge interest charges.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u117	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The daughter of Jónsdóttir for her answer and a question about a matter of great importance and importance. The positive thing about this discussion and the putting up of this plan here, such as the highest. The minister of finance is that it raises these important questions very quickly. The debt of the state's funds is high, and it has to do with big issues, such as how emissions work and how to put the stability in full priority. This is included in this program, in part, by comparison with other nations, etc. The real thing is, there's nothing to hide about him, how much this is of GDP and how much we're paying per year for growth. You can see, because they're debts, looking at the balances and properties in return, to make up our financial companies, to make us money from them, and to pay off our debts, the debts that were set up against, including. to rebuild the financial system here. I think that's the most natural thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u118	President. I agree, it's urgent to put it first. What I'm worried about is I need to see the whole thing. What I find so terribly difficult to work at is that it is sometimes so difficult to get incentives to work together on big, important issues. It's just too small and too little of a tradition for cooperation on big and big things that's going to have to be fixed here. That may be what has disappointed me the most after I entered the council. I haven't read all of this yet, but I worry, for example, that the correction will get eaten up by inflation, which is because we're in a big fight right now. I've seen no suggestions from the government. It has been a tradition of meeting those who are at odds. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to know if the Senator has any ideas about how we can deal with these huge problems that we are dealing with today. Does he see in these suggestions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u119	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Birgitta I'm Jónsdóttir, but I don't know what you're talking about. It's a huge question, and it's a pleasure to have such a big question. With my cooperation, my experience is here, I don't have as long Congress experience as I do. A senator, that they did not lack cooperation. It may be a lack of solidarity. I watch a solidarity when a decision has been made about something like a policy, i.e. looking for solidarities to make policy succeed. In politics, there can often be trouble. Wrestling the Big Problem? I understand concern about the correction, that it will be eaten up, but the correction taken on this very important is the fact that it will not be taken off and will actually protect the home from the things corrected. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u120	President. We'll discuss the state financial programme for 2016-52019 to the highest level. Secretary of the budget now contributes. First, I want to thank him and the financial personnel for the work that is behind the plan. This document provides a beautiful promise that the main component of the fiscal budget is stable and sustainable economy and if that continues, we will be sailing into one of the longest economic growths in Iceland's history, no less or less. It's a pretty big, big word that the secretary of finance can make, hopefully, for our own good, and I wish him and of course we will. Yet, I have learned how to be cautious in all my conversations and predictions relating to government matters. But there are quite a few things very uncertain about this piece of paper, to say the least. The greatest concern is that the uncertainty of the GDP policy for the next four years is found in the largest economic resources the government is currently facing and, unfortunately, as the situation exists today, these resources, which so uncertainly exist on the basis of the current budget, the emissions of capital scoring, and the standards of the labour market. As correctly stated in the state economic policy, it is of utmost importance that the emissions of capital syrup are well accomplished but, unfortunately, the government does not seem to have a decisive policy or to be clear enough or to speak in one voice or to have a plan on the big and large issues. Sadly, the officials of the government speak out and south on that subject, leaving us taxpayers, not knowing where or where to drive or where to go or what to believe, so to speak. Today, too, it was observed at the council that the conference committee on emissions has not been met since December. Such a situation is extremely serious. Then there is the job market situation, which is correctly addressed here as one of the largest economic solutions in government funds. Indeed, these are the key to success and stability. But we all know how the job market situation is, it is in complete confusion, and there is no evidence to suggest that the work is being done on that level, unfortunately. We sit and scratch our heads over whether this document can stand as it is presented here today. These are very large uncertainty factors in the government's economic program, provided by the secretary of finance. Then there is the political input, which can be found in this document, the policy of turning down significantly. Senators who spoke before me have spoken about it. What does this mean and where does it appear? Yes, it is clearly on page 8. Thirty - eight, with a range of costs to be read, the aim for the real growth of the budget gate is to be slower than the actual growth of GDP up to 2019. This means that the proportion of primarys without irregular joints of GDP is reduced by 1 percent, from 24.4% in 2015 to 23.4% in 2019. It is proper to say that it is a very small number, it is a very small number, and it really means that so little of the national cake goes into running the welfare system and strengthening the interiors of society that these essential structures of our community become weaker. That's what we're going to see in this budget plan for the next four years. It's not a good politics, it's not a future political bitch, and it's not also politics that has respect for the older generation. In addition, this is a very low percentage of budgets compared to the northern countries we always want to be comparing ourselves to. We always want to be comparing ourselves with the North countries when it comes to quality of life, economic growth, welfare systems, and inner social infrastructure. When the cake is growing, how can you also lower the figure involved in the combination? Is this just a cake that only a few chosen ones can get a piece of? I wonder. There is also serious concern that the next few years will not be covered in government projects. In fact, it inspires fins. We are waiting for transport programs and other programs that involve the implementation of the State. When talking about government projects, we are talking about schools, nursing homes, roads, and airports, but perhaps it is best to focus on the projects that are directly involved in the service to people. Why the hell is this? How is it that there is no room for investment on the part of the State? Is it a declared policy that there will be no schools, no nursing homes, services and health services, this is not going to be built here, not airports or roads for the next few years? So we're just going to accept it? I'd also like to draw attention to the fact that when it comes to the production of the fine cards we're discussing here, it's just betting on one sector, the tourism. It is good and blessed that this is a compliment to the tourism service, for it has been one of the main basis for economic growth in the country over the last few years, but I am concerned with betting on one sector and largely building in large hotels and the expansion of services units, as mentioned here. We all know it's dangerous to put all your eggs in the same basket, and we need to remember that this also needs to be invested in the infrastructure and diversity of the Icelandic tourism service. We need to think about the future. When I talk about investing in the interiors of these important jobs, I'm talking about long-term investments that include an investment in travel service education, support for less travel service companies, support for start-up companies for tourism, etc. We can't just build this big hotel and bet on it, and we'll keep on making money from the tourists who come here. Another major concern is this: The Haust Bureau's project that unemployment is not getting along enough during the next few years. This does not reveal any kind of action to defuse it, but it is as if the government has accepted the unemployment statistics we live in. It would be nice to have a further explanation as to whether there is some kind of policy to reduce unemployment. Because the time is coming from me, I'd like to be less brief than that in the section on the salary of the state's budget and predicting the development of a government fund, as foretold, to give away the income of a government fund by reducing taxes. Based on the basis of this programme, 29.9% should be removed from 29.9% in 2014 to 26.7% in 2019, as a proportion of GDP, resulting in a total of that. Sadly, however, it seems that the economic environment will in itself lead to some form of income in return. I don't think it's an irresponsible course. We need something harder. We can't give up the money on the state funds like that. Sadly, as shown in this schedule, the improvement is slow, and it is not in harmony with the saying that this is a turning point. [[The president calls.]] It is hoped that this uncertainty in the basis of the budget can also be reversed, which is the emissions of capital waste and the work market situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u121	A respectable president. I especially noticed a warning reason. The senator must speak with caution about the state's culture, perhaps especially when we are, as was clearly shown in the talk of the Supreme Court. Minister, as well as the following, we're going into the perhaps best years of Iceland's history. I'm sorry, Mr. Honorable President, for not having a chance. Hv. A senator brings up uncertainty. It mentions the capital capital headache that has not been solved. It is natural uncertainty. Can she just explain what would blow up? She also mentions the present - day debates. For example, it was now negotiated that the pay for HB Granda would be increased by 9 to 10%, I think, on Aquilin. I'm celebrating it, but let's say that public employees are gaining a raise -- I think it's highly inconceivable to assume that they will not achieve anything more than the 3.5% that the state is offering them right now -- what would have been the result of a 5% rise? Does she have any idea how that would affect her? Would it overthrow it? Can we, then, expect us to have a new plan later in the spring or in the fall? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u122	Thank you. A senator for these questions. It is only hoped that she will ask because these are huge uncertainties. This schedule carefully reviews the degree of uncertainty about emissions and how important it is to be properly accepted. We all know that, at least which is sitting in here, must be careful all the steps taken in this material. There must not be some sort of a riot, postponing meetings, etc., as shown at the council today. For emissions, a slow start is also needed. This must be done in a calm, secure step, not as some members of the management team have proclaimed, that this must be done on one, two, and three. As a result of this uncertainty factor, no forecasts can be made on the income of a state's budget that could result from the release of a budget. There is an enormous uncertainty factor in this document and, indeed, when it comes to earning a trust fund. Just a little bit of the workforce where time runs away from me, I find it a little strange and a little worried about how badly the government is prepared for an ongoing dress interview. It's not as if the government should surprise us. This was made up for a short time with payers by 2.8% of pay increases. A steady relationship was achieved with that, but treaties were free. Of course, the government should know and should have been able to prepare for that position. This schedule repeatedly warns against a rise in salary and, in reality, there is a very clear signal to employees not to demand too much, that will blow up all plans. [[The president calls.]] When these two... come together, I'd think there would be another document to be published. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u123	A respectable president. I share the worry that came out of the question. A senator on the development of the combination. Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and I had a conversation earlier today and wondered if the candidates would understand what was being proclaimed in this document. This is a turning point in order to provide us with a framework of how the government intends to use money and to carry the state people. It's interesting to talk about it, but then you wonder if the Independence Party team knows where it's headed. It's low, it's dropping. It reminds me that in other parts of the North and around us, the combination is much closer than 30%. I know why. Is there anything more that a senator can do to help me learn more about this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u124	Thank you. A senator for these words and for calling attention to whether the advance party is pleased with this plan. This is certainly a ministration of government projects, and so, as I traced only once before, it must mean reducing construction of buildings in nursing homes, services, schools, etc. It would be interesting to hear how the delegates feel about this. Then there is just that. A senator drew attention, and I spoke of earlier, a reduction in the use of the combination. I don't have accurate numbers when it comes to the combination, how it's in other parts of the North, but I'm walking on exactly the same things I'm going through. A senator says there's about 30%. At least this number is much lower than in other parts of the North countries, and it just doesn't rhyme with wanting to compare with neighboring countries in terms of economic growth and quality of life. This must mean that this welfare and public service are being reduced in educational, welfare, and health systems. This cannot be interpreted as anything else. It is a powerful political document that would be interesting to have more members of the hall express themselves. paritaprevir Willum Thor Thor Thor Þór Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u125	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She talked about unemployment. This government budget shows that unemployment has been reduced in basic education and industrialized persons, but has grown by college students. College education is now 23% of unemployed, and in the past two years unemployment has increased there much, i.e. about 5% a year, which must be a concern. It is published in a report on the plan that the reason is that there is not enough production in the system, which is due to the nature of the most growing sector, the tourism. Today, the largest export work, as it were, has been since 2013. At the Assembly Hall, we have called for a review of the topic of business, an article that grows so much, and made it likely that it is not taxed sufficiently, so to speak. She is in discriminatory and thus does not stand equal to other professions when it comes to taxation. The budget does not have any plans for the development of this sector and how to deal with this lack of production. I'm asking why. A senator whether she agrees with me in that it needs to be addressed and that there is a flaw in the plan not to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u126	Thank you. Oddný ItHarðardóttir a great point I didn't come to in my case. these concerns that appear here and are figures from the Labour Office on the percentage of academic unemployed who have just increased by 5 percent in two years. I hear what you're saying. A senator is in the same region where I was talking about earlier, i.e. I miss not seeing a more diverse policy when it comes to this nation's largest industry, a business that has grown to such an enormous extent in which foreign currency is the greatest. She's passed the fishing road and the heavy industry, the big business. Of course, we need to draw some lines around and plan to make money from this big and big industry, as well as invest in it for the future, increase the percentage of academics, increase the education opportunities of people in this article, in some way support the sceptical company within the tourism service. I would also like to see further development in tourism. That doesn't seem to be the concern of the government. As I was doing in short, here is put in place largely male structures in large hotels and large service units. We know it's not the people that come here it's the Icelandic nature and the things we all know. I think it would be very far-sighted for a minister of finance to, if I may, the President, both an investment in this article and an education. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u127	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. We're happy, and I think everyone's been happy today that we're going to discuss the government budget at this point, but I'd like to ask. A senator whether it agrees with me in that you do not see enough of the plan which area the principal policy of the government is taking on expenses or on the income side. Important matters that we are waiting for for the council to come in are the housing, the government policy that has been announced to be part of the council. V.E.G. The secretary of the house is only talking about summer conventions and God knows what. Here is one sentence on this massive policy, and it is on page 18. 2: It is designed to change government housing policy with the goal of supporting better with income - poor families and strengthening the position of the first buyers. The cost is not addressed, yet it is stated on page 5. 5 that collective agreements are a major uncertainty factor and that if they contribute to instability, there will be no housing issues. Wait a minute. A senator would wonder if she would agree that there was a greater need for a more specific tone in this major policy matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-22-94.u128	Thank you. A senator for this tip and a question. Once again, we are what? A senator in the same territory. That's exactly what I'd been looking at in this sentence, which says: It is designed to change government housing policy with the goal of supporting better with income - poor families and strengthening the position of the first buyers. I had marked "Where and How?" How should this be done, and with what money? In effect, this little sentence added to the third uncertainty factor. The two major uncertainty factors, the disposal of capital stocks and employment markets, are enormous, but in this single sentence, it is a huge case that affects many families in the community. I'm sorry, this is not done further in the plan, and we still don't know when it's being implemented, how much it's going to cost state funds, etc. so that we are still just waiting for the highest power. The social and housing minister would present his bill then acting out in this financial policy. It may be a good reason, then, to wonder again whether this means when these three uncertainty factors are gathered together that there is a need for an alternative budget. It is likely an enormous amount of money, but none of it is stated in this program unless it is spoken of as a reduction in the use of the Memorial and as a result of government projects. It's all a little skiing. We can't really do anything but wait and see if there will be any changes and add them to the big holes we see in this program. [[The president calls.]]
