ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u1	The tragic news was received on Friday, October 23, the last day after our last meeting, that one of our general members, Guðbjartur Hannesson, former president of the World Congress and former Minister, had been dead in the morning of Akérini's hospital. Most of us who had observed his condition and his health during the past few months did not come to an unexpected conclusion. But his death touched us deeply. In a heroic battle against a deadly disease, cancer, he showed unusual aorta. Our minds now reflect on the last springtime when we said good - Guðbjartur to God, merry - and - tear, to the joyful events that lay ahead of us in the family. His smile and warmness will long remember us, as well as the boyliness and grace that we always met in cooperation with this healthy, hard - working Skagagaman here in the halls of the General Assembly. On the night before the arrival of a large crowd of Acdérin, Guðbjartur was buried last Friday. On June 3, 1950, Guðbjartur Hannesson was born on Aclin, the son of his wife Hannes the National Þjóðbjörnsson son of a laborer, and Ólafía Rannveig, the daughter of Mistress Jóhannesdóttir. He completed a test from Iceland's School of Teachers in 1971 and later a hobby teacher in Denmark 1978, and then he studied it the following year at a school in Copenhagen. Later, he went to college at the School of Teachers, and in 2005 he finished a master's exam from a school of teachers in London. As soon as a teacher's training program began, the Guðbjartur Ministry School of Aranesp began, but it became two years later the European Union of 1973,1975. After his high school in Denmark and his stay there, he became a teacher back at Acquilin, and two years later, 1981, just in his early 30's, the principal of a film - school school school at Akrelini. His position was popular and respectful until he was elected to the World Council of 2007. He became respected for his work as progressive and successful headmaster for nearly three decades. His school, a Grunda school, became the first school to gain the Icelandic academic prize in 2006. Guðbjartur devotion was well enjoyed with young ones, setting a fine example for them in their normal life - style and outlook, orderliness, conscientiousness, and hard work. He was highly regarded by his students. For those jobs at that site, it will be mentioned for a long time. The German Guðbjartur of Hannesson, who served three times as an elected list of them in town government, was joined by the Allied Association of Acquirek, held on the basis of the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of New York, 1986,1998. All that time, he sat in the town council and was its chairman for a while, and three times the president of the town government. Guðbjartur devotion was essentially a great social worker. In his youth he was a pillar, and with them he served many days; he was always a pillar. When he became involved in rural politics in his hometown, he became a member of many local committees, including the town's roads. The construction of the film school and the Gardens School, but childhood and school matters and sports issues, he was always very concerned. As the total election approached in 2007, Guðbjartur was eager to enter the realm of the national affairs. His name had often been mentioned earlier as a potential candidate. His experience with rural politics, professional reputations, and other gendars assured him first in his list of states in the Northwestern district. Then he ordered that seat. A mature politician Guðbjartur Hannesson, who sat at the General Assembly, 57 years old, long - lived in political activity and had also served for five years in the Bank of the Bank of Bank of Iceland. He became at the beginning of the Council, the chairman of a social committee. After the change of rulership in the beginning of February 2009, the Italian president of the World Congress was elected by Guðbjartur. He carried on his experience and trust in the presidency and fairness of the president, but there was great turmoil then in politics and strife. After the election, it became evident that Guðbjartur's mind did not return to the presidency. Rather, he wanted to be a part of the politics of the council. He became chairman of a judicial committee that was not easy to fit in their circumstances. A year later, on September 2, 2010, the Guðbjartur - given government took over social, insurance, and health matters, and some time later he accepted the newly formed Department of Health. Hence, in 2013 he served in charge of the election. Guðbjartur language groups were indeed difficult because of economic discouragement, but they acted hard, interested, and knowledge. After his last election, he was on a full-scale educational committee, and he was there at home. The apostle John, a member of the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses, was a prominent member of the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses, and he was Guðbjartur involved in the international work of the International Parliament, and this was in the vice president of the Council of the United States. Although he would be long, eight years, and 11 legislatures, he was then appointed to all the major trusts at the General Assembly, the Committee to Presidents, the Ministers, and the Presidential Assembly, as well as the members of the Governing Body. In all his work, he was successful, approachable, moderate, and cooperative. He made a good statement and could be stuck when the point cut. In the minds of us generals, the memory of the Guðbjartur Hannesson of Hele, who has now fallen from such an unexpected and sudden, far before, in the midst of many unworked things. I pray to the assembly to remember The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson, the general and former president of the Generals, by rising from their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u2	Borist's letter has been sent by the chairman of the Parliamentary Party for Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, 1st. Northwestern district, can't be a senator in the near future. Today, then, at General 1st, a deputy of the Apostle Party's list in the district, Sigurður Páll Jónsson. Sigurður Páll Jónsson has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is welcome back to work. Borist has a letter from the 5th. Northwestern Þorvarðardóttir, Kjerúlf the Þrörlphurdóttir, that she could not be a member of Congress in the near future. Today, therefore, a replacement of the United States Association list takes place in the district of Hork Ríkharðsson's son. Hörður Ríkharðsson's son has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly and is invited to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u3	President wants to draw attention to him. The general members of the Parliament conclude that Friday the president of the Algillis took the first two volumes of a new edition of Flat Island in the Norwegian language that the translators brought as a gift to the General Assembly. This first complete edition of Flatness in Norwegian is beautifully illustrated, a great work, and a good work, to introduce to the new generations of the Norwegian. If I would bring thanks to the people who came to the edition, I'd like to thank Mr. Allellis. The books appear in the upper room to be shown by the generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u4	Borist has two letters from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for every request to give written answers to a letter on the spell. 199, on trial for alleged excrements, from Guðlaugur's house of Þór, son of Þórðarson, and on a threshing floor. 198, on subsidies in connection with the release of capital breakers, from the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir. A letter has also been received from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms where request is made to provide a written answer to a petition for this request. 176, on fiasco and fishing fees, from Oddný G. Harðardóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u5	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers, Ministers of Social and Hospital Affairs and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u6	A respectable president. I want to direct you to the highest level. Prime Minister on the matters of the Kingdom News. This was so that last week the results of a report on the state of the Kingdom Hall and its financial status were presented. There may be some comments on this report, but the relevance of the media in public service is confirmed in this report. This is the only media available to people from, by 17,800 a.m., does not have to buy an Internet connection or a telephone or something to get culture and education anywhere in the country. I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether he shares with me the belief that, in view of this report, it is a protection for the State TV, its cultural role, its public service; and to do so, three are important. First, to ensure that the State Radio is granted the exclusive use of radio fees. On the one hand, the next year's radio charge will not be dropped, as expected, and as the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Ministers of education have come under attack. Third, the State Radio will be relieved of the Penitentiary Penitentiary that this institution alone carries from all institutions and is known to be the source of no other government agency. It's the highest. The prime minister agrees with me that this is one of the most important projects we are now facing in order to secure the state of the Kingdom News, and is he prepared to build a general agreement on exactly these steps in order to strengthen our trust in the state of the Kingdom News?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u7	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator's translation of the importance of the cultural role he described is well - mannered and that the state radio is enabled to do so well. Or there are such factors as the importance of the large collection of cultural material that the Kingdom Radio is holding and being handled. As a matter of fact, I have personally tried to contribute my part to the protection of these cultures on the TV. These and other important roles are important to the government radio and are important to this situation, but it is also important to consider all the changes that are taking place in the media and the media markets and how the media are fired and to fix the Government Radio and the role of it. That's why it should be welcomed to the highest level. Education Ministers have worked hard to evaluate the state of the State Radio, the possibility of fulfilling their role, reviewing the financial situation, and mapping it, and the highest level. A minister of education has announced that he will continue to work to review the role of the Kingdom News. I think I know that the highest. Secretary of education agrees with me. Forecasts on the importance of highlighting the cultural element, things that humans may not have access to elsewhere, things that the media in competitive business may not have put in place, and that these may need to have government custody and government funding in order for them to be cared for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u8	A respectable president. I want to reiterate the question to the highest level. Prime Minister on two key elements, that the radio rate will not be lowered, extended to the State Radio, and that the pension debt will be relieved of the Agency. Because of the highest. The prime minister has shown himself to be both creative and powerful when it comes to terms with cultural protection, I want to remind him that the State Radio was founded as the cradle of modern - day Icelandic civilizations. The government radio has been with us for about as long as the dockyard was at peace here a few days ago, but it has been visible to us all along, leaving a great deal of value in the nation and playing a great role for people all along the country. That's why I want to encourage the highest. The prime minister to help us also at peace with the State Radio for the invasion of his own investigation and the management team and to protect the State Radio. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u9	A respectable president. Hv. A senator does not need to remind me of the origin of the Kingdom Radio. It was the government of the Superficial Party that established the State Radio in 1930 to be the site of a democratic discussion and culture in the country. But I don't agree with what. A senator for peace of the State Radio in such a way that it should always be exactly as it is today. The nature of the business involved there requires that the public radio be able to adapt to changes in society, technology, etc. They must be very adaptable and can evaluate and respond to the situation at a time. That is why, as I noted earlier, it is a cause for rejoicing. Education ministers have taken the initiative to evaluate the company's position. One of the main factors that will likely be considered is the best way of managing the Agency, whether the Ohf. programme has proved successful, or whether an alternative arrangement is better, and into it one must take a role like the other. A senator asked about. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u10	President. It caught my attention to the news of matters that are falling under something that may be called the Love Police, but the U.S. National Institute of Iceland began looking for police in the capital area to find out if people are in love. This was revealed in all the surprising features of the study, including the leak of personal information about the married couple from the Land Hospital. You would have thought that no confidential agreement would be as important as any of those who attend the service at the Land Hospital or other institutions that hold on to the health of the people and those institutions. So I wanted to ask the highest. Minister if he feels all right when the executives of the Agency answer the press questions about this matter so that this can only happen. Is that okay? I think the reaction to this extraordinary misdemeanor would have been very different if the Icelanders had been involved, if a young Italian couple had had to go through the love police and confidential information had been leaked by a social worker at the Land Hospital. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister will see if the agency under which he hears how these matters will be handled in the future and whether it is not absolutely certain that this will not happen again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u11	A respectable president. Of course, it is never okay when confidential information is leaked. It's a way that no one wants to see, but I don't think there's anything humanly humanly capable of preventing such an accident in the event of a determined crime. It is something that we are always in danger of being able to do. I state that the hospital managers have stressed that this particular matter is being investigated and when it comes to this investigation, they will make decisions on the basis of the results it presents. Of course, a high degree of emphasis is placed on confidential health care professionals throughout the system, and of course I will have a word with the head of the hospital for this particular case, such as on many of the other matters that arise at my table on the affairs of the Lands Hospital. For this reason, I would like to emphasize and emphasize that the principle and the rule of universal rule should be that confidential information is not leaked beyond the site they are supposed to be committed to the shelters. But I reiterate that I do not know much of this matter, but I wait to have a word with the hospital manager and to expect that the conclusion they will reach, based on their investigation of the case, will be introduced to me and the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u12	President. I appreciate the answers, but I want to inform the highest. Regarding the fact that on October 27, there was a news report on the pages of a social worker at the National Hospital that leaked information about the Vietnamese couple to the Foreign Institute. The newspaper reported that this was in the Agency's diary entry. But that may not be the main issue. The main issue is that laws and regulations on both confidentiality and the information of public employees are not good enough and in the Ministry of Ministers. The prime minister has had laws that correct and explain these rules. But for some reason it has not been able to find its way here into the General's file or to be moved. But it's been ready for a year. In view of all these events, I wanted to know if the highest level of leaks from the government. My minister does not support me in encouraging this issue to come as soon as possible to the council's program from the Ministry of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u13	A respectable president. I am now designed to support all good things and the advancement of most of them. I can, however, tell you what. A senator that I have been working very hard on the matters I'm supposed to perform here at the council so that I don't take part in the work of other ministers. I have no interest in doing so. [[Up front.]] I could, of course, thank you for your trust, boy. A senator involved in this statement and this intervention - thank you very much, it's just becoming one of them all. [[Up front.]] But let's do it. For this reason, I want to inform you that I expect to do so and, in fact, expect the hospital's manager, when an investigation of this case is completed, will use the resources of all the laws and regulations on these matters, and will use them if necessary. They may be complicated, but so far we've been able to work on them, and if there's some means to change them, and they simplify them, it's simply to get started. But like the law and order today, it's the equipment we're supposed to use and we're supposed to use.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u14	President. I'd like to talk to the highest. Minister for agreements introduced last week between the government and the sufferers of fallen banks, i.e. An agreement aimed to lift the seas in the country. So people get to the point of it, it's primarily about the swellingers putting on stability effort -- I'm gonna stick to that part of it - which is mainly in the form of property, not money. This is shown primarily by the stability produced by Glitnis, $229 billion, there are only 3 billion free money. The rest is in the holdings of an Iceland Bank, which is estimated at 185 billion, and then in other family property and requirements up to 41 billion, perhaps. Presupposes, not one dollar in stability, but in the form of domestic property and demand, up to 24 billion, in the form of a bond of debt at Arion Bank, to 84 billion, which can be paid only by selling the bank and using the value of the sale to pay and cash. Third, when the bank sells at a price, 20 billion of its potential value will be provided by the Summit, or not. The land bank puts 5 billion dollars in the stability process, the rest is in property like a dollar's property. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Questions for this reason: What price Iceland Bank is worth of 185 billion? Glitnis's delicate management estimated that they could possibly get 150 billion for this bank a few weeks ago. What will be the value of the property and the demands that the weary will place in us, and we need to be set free as money? What exactly are these assets, and what exactly is this requirement? Third, what is the other party, i.e. The government agreement, i.e. The crews, to get out of this deal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u15	Mr. President. Things were not right here, first of all, that no human contract was made. But it was so that the worn - out men submitted annuity request to the Federal Bank and requested by a particular methodology to be free from oceans. The CIA responded by consulting with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, which then went before the Council's Economic and Business Committee. The assessment by the World Bank is that the measures that would be expected to take take into account the problem that has so far prevented the suspension and distribution of their property to the owners, the crews. That's the main point of this case. It is an amazing approach to say that the fragments are allowed to take possession of the State and that the state is stuck with them on hundreds of billions of property, as if it were such a terrible problem. We should be happy that we are entering that place for the first time from 2008 to look forward to a solution that enables us to lift our oceans. The small finishes alone were the biggest threshold in the world to prevent lifts of the head. In regard to the value of possessions, it has been in the hands of broken homes up to this day to evaluate the value of property to those who have something below the value of property. In the case of Iceland Bank, this is simply the case with the fact that it is worth the bank's bank's bank's money in return. It's the bank's own money they're talking about. According to the bank's annual accounts, when it refers to 185 billion, it is being referred to as the estimated reflection of the fragment in the bank's total capital as it will be at the end of the year. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u16	A respectable president. I wasn't asking about the Federal Bank's assessment of these contracts at all. It's just in the cornea show, which is all the senators have here, there's a cornea show and eating on the part of the government about what's happened there. In fact, it's in the cornean show that they're contracts, that's what we agreed on. That's how it's been introduced, promoted for the summer and then back in autumn, contracts with demands that they go out with me I don't know how much. There was no answer, and I'm asking the highest. Minister again: What are the demands of the other bidder to get out of this moat? What are they going to bring out of the land? By the property now being obtained by the State, the banquet has been reassigned. They've opened the room and turned on the lights. The table has been decked with property of 371 billion, which needs to be placed in prices that need to be sold or delivered in some way and divided by money because otherwise this will not benefit us from decommissioning of the sea. That's what I'm asking the highest. Minister in. [[The president calls.]] Who values these possessions? Are they worth what it is, or is it the price that has often been wanted in things like these? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And who arranged the deal, on behalf of who? Or did it just come out of nowhere? Nothing happened? You didn't sign any contracts? You don't have a deal? Is this something that's happened in the air? [[The president calls.]] Senators cannot make a decision or discuss such matters unless they have information that they do not have today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u17	Mr. President. It's hard to believe that people are not acting out for the council on this matter. There is 25 pages of the Bible. a report from the Secret Bank and then a special introduction to 80 pp. This situation has been carefully reviewed with a financial and business committee, so the lack of information is totally out of the air. When confronted with desperate agreements, it is a fundamental problem of understanding. A senator says that these are bank contracts with the state. No, contracts are the contracts that the demands of the crew are going to negotiate between the two parties to confirm, preconceived to prevent the failure of the banks. They plan to go along with their agreements to decide in any way that property is found in the broken - ups will be divided. That's fine for what. A senator is beginning to realize that when possessions are handed over, as is indicated by the stability process, in itself the ultimate worth of value is less important because we are striving to pay equal amounts of money. As their possessions grow, the more the problem would have been. It is good that these assets are simply expedient. Then time will tell exactly what they will be worth individually.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u18	A respectable president. I'd like to come up here and ask for further explanations on the implementation of laws on the habitats. In fact, I got a fairly detailed answer to a question I asked in mid - September, but there are still some questions left that I wanted to direct to the highest level. Prime Minister. This was primarily about whether he feels that the project under the instant pacification of the harbor on Trygvet has been in harmony with what is presented in this answer, i.e. to agree with the relevant parties and to be given an opportunity to present their viewpoints and others, whether they feel that this has been done in a appropriate way in this particular instant pacification. Now, a particular question remains, especially in view of what happened after I proposed my inquiry, and that is the role of the highest. The Environment Minister is in the case and why she was commissioned to confirm a quick period of peace and whether this performance has any meaning when it has been discovered that it was done too late. I would like to know the answers to these questions, and I'd like to learn more about the answers I received from the questions I raised in September. But I'd like to hear from the highest. Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u19	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. It's fine to have an opportunity to review this matter. First, there is a big misunderstanding that occurred in a previous inquiry and again - and perhaps to the person here accused of not having corrected it well enough in previous answers - that the peace of the harbor at Trygva Street had something to do about the reservation. These are totally unrelated things. The peace done there is made on the basis of other laws that have been spent much longer so that they are not related. For the declaration of peace itself - when the Environment Minister confirms the proposal of the Minjah Institute, it is done on the basis of this law and on the basis of this proposal. And whatever its timing - whether it was a day too late or not, it really wasn't important. At worst, it would have meant that the park had been declared wary for one day. The next day, he was so emancipated by a minister. It is not that if a minister does not proclaim peace within six weeks of the Minning Institute's proposal, there will never be any future peace announcements. It was a day, or half a day, at most, even though they believed it was too late, where the garden was called for war. All right. Even if a minister had not elated the garden, he was at peace. You see, it's the opposite. I find it a confusing arrangement to talk about both peace and peace, since it really is the same thing. The park was at peace because of age, but then the declaration of the peace ministers came on top of it as if to catch up with what was already so much of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u20	A respectable president. I'm trying to figure out, since I heard the word "peaceance" and peace a bit often. I have to say that for all the future development, especially in the capital area, I feel very bad if things are such that they are easily misunderstood by many, and I have to be included in that group because I believed that it was part of a process to work by the law that was approved in the spring. But that does not change the fact that I want a clear answer from the prime minister regarding this instant pacification or peace description, or what he would like to call it, whether it was sufficiently guaranteed that some concerned people were included in it. Then I want to know why the prime minister did not make his own decision to confirm this instant peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u21	A respectable president. I don't think it's confusing with the reservations. I don't know who started mixing the reservations into this, but it wasn't from the Ministry and it wasn't from the Minning Institute. Their role is different and clear, so this is not something to cause misunderstandings. However, in the case of the future development in Reykjavík, due to the problem. Of course, a senator specifically mentioned it, it is very important that at this time in the construction of the central city of Reykjavík, people do not get out of the way completely and sacrifice cultural benefits for something that may seem to be worth the paper for a short time but then prove to be damaging, so especially in present circumstances, I think it is important that we have laws to protect our history and culture. But in terms of the question why the environmental minister had a peaceful garden, why I had told myself about the case, it was because I thought it was important that a discussion about this matter was not about the extra part such as whether I was incompetent, which was not, if men had tried to take the discussion in that direction, so it was best to be free of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u22	V.E.G. President. As has often been discussed in this Assembly Hall, Europe is now facing a greater stream of refugees than ever since World War II. Besides, tens of millions are fleeing in neighboring countries. At the beginning of the council, members of the United Nations, left of greens, Pirata and Birts'future, proposed a contingency proposal for Iceland to host at least 500 refugees in the next two years. In September, the government announced that 2 billion people, refugees, between 2015 and 2016. It was also clearly stated that particular numbers should not be mentioned. Now the day has come for the year's presentation of 55 guesscomers. It's a great pleasure to have people come to this country, but it's a real concern that there are no more people we are about to receive even now, considering that in October one month, you fled 218. a man over the Mediterranean, now 774 you. the remaining year. Funds indicate an increase of 825 million. K. of the 2 billion on the subject this year. That's 250 million. K. in support of international institutions and relief organizations, which are positive. Only 75 million should be placed. K. ... witha reception for refugees who are extremely disappointed, but 450 million. K. are to respond to the number of refugees who are taking the lead. This development was seen in earlier years, and I think it is unnatural to calculate into the 2 billion. My question to the highest. The prime minister is: Is it really so that we, during this great and difficult year of refugees, merely hosting 55 people?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u23	A respectable president. Like what? A senator was determined to place very much money, much more than has been done here in the country and, in fact, to withstand all international comparisons, in dealing with the emergency of the refugee stream, which is in part to Europe - in fact, only to a small extent, compared with the number of refugees waiting for help or to return home. It is true that a smaller portion of this budget goes to the reception of refugees this year, but it is most important that the year when this first group of refugees arrives in the country only for a few weeks this year, 2015, it explains why the amount needed to receive refugees, and goes to this category in 2015, is lower than if the refugees had arrived earlier this year. It is also appropriate to use this opportunity to remind us of the importance of our efforts to support refugees in the environment of the struggles, in countries such as Lebanon, Jordan, and Turkey. It is now the day - we learned what we found with the United Nations Refugee Organization of Refugees and also with members of the Parliament who left and studied the situation in the refugee camps - that many refugees would like to have the opportunity to stay there and then return home. As long as they have no hope and conditions there are getting worse, however, they see no alternative but to make a life - threatening journey across the Mediterranean Sea in an effort to seek survival in that way. Hence, people must put more effort into meeting people in the neighborhood and also enable them to come as refugees directly from there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u24	V.E.G. President. I'd like to ask for it at the highest. Prime Minister that the government revised these plans. The number of refugees is increasing constantly. This is a trend that will remain the next loss, and we simply have to do better. As I mentioned earlier, over 20 members of the council agreed on the number 500, and I know that in the management team, our handsome donations are supported to the hosting of refugees. That's what I'm celebrating, my highest. President, to contribute 250 million to international and relief agencies. It's important, but we have to spend more money taking in the wounded so that they don't have to go across the sea. Then we have a stream of inmates. In recent years, the number of these has increased, and no part of these 2 billion cannot be used. [[The president calls.]] It's a trend that was anticipated. [[The president calls.]] At the beginning of this year, there was not enough money to be expected, so they are not to be involved. [[The president calls.]] I request a review of these programmes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u25	A respectable president. I reiterate what I mentioned earlier that the so - called armaholics who will come here this year come very late this year, and it explains that the amount expected in that group is not higher. The Icelandic government has been waiting for information about people desirable in Iceland. This information is now available. It's November, and hopefully they'll be able to come into this country soon, but they won't change because they're short for the year, and that's why this division is becoming clearer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Industrial and commercial Minister on the implementation of General Assembly resolutions from January 14, 2014, but the conclusion remains, with permission of the President: The General concluded to hide the government's efforts to establish a coordinated effort by the government and rural society in the East County for the growth of employment life and the creation of new workings in the northern part of the West through the utilisation of electrical energy produced in mixed activation. The conclusion is soon to come at the age of two. On the other hand, what distinguishes this conclusion is that it is very clear, practical, and understandable to all who read it. It involves promoting employment, creating new jobs, and using the energy from the mixed-up process. The government is commissioned to act in behalf of that task. Of course, that task is not an easy task to get away from in a simple way. Rather, it is important to be followed and worked hard. The General Assembly and the Government must realize that by means of these approved resolutions, there are high expectations among the inhabitants of this area. Of course, citizens of an area that is as decisive as this has been, require that the results of this work be obtained and that these promises be fulfilled by approved conclusions of this kind. The report on the development of employment, population, population composition, age composition, education status, and some other information on the development of social and cultural factors in the region. It is good to say that the information paints an extremely dark picture of the trend in this area. Individuals, businesses, and rural governments in the area may need to be able to put forth much more effort to reverse the developments that confront us, and it may be easy to say that they can. Here and now, however, there is a stage for answering that at the highest level. Minister: How is the growth of professional life? What is the creation of new jobs, and what is the use of electrical energy reconstitution in the region?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u27	A respectable president. As noted in the case of the lead president, a resolution was adopted at the General Assembly of January 15, 2014, which says by permission of the president: The General concluded to hide the government's efforts to establish a coordinated effort by the government and rural society in the East County for the growth of employment life and the creation of new workings in the northern part of the West through the utilisation of electrical energy produced in mixed activation. The aim of the initiative is to promote the competitiveness of the region and to prepare for the structure of energy efficiency of mock-up activation as well as to work on the marketing of the region as industrial instruments, such as for data plants. On the basis of this conclusion, I appointed a task force with a representative of the four NGOs in Eastern Huna County. It was Arnar Þór Sævarsson, director of the United States, Úlfarsdóttir Sigrún Hauksdóttir, Dagný. With them, chief engineer of the Department of Professional Road and Development, Sveinn Þorgrímsson. The first part of that work has now been completed in the spring months with a thorough assessment and a report that gives a good picture of the employment position and the human life in the Eastern County, its connection to electricity production in the province, and detects some interesting ways to promote the environment and strengthen the structure. This report has been given a fine telecommunication among the locals and seems to be a good match for her findings at home in the region. The second part of the work that is now starting turns toward the marketing of the region as industry. The critical status of the report is that the expected expansion of the reconstitution activities provides a sound basis for the efficiency of energy from the activation in the support of sectoral development in the Eastern County. I have to make it clear that it is the conclusion of the group I'm running here, and I restate that it is not the person being given here to decide for electricity use from individual activations or to negotiate prices or to decide which projects the electricity is given. It's on the power company's hand. Land activation in this case. However, there is a view that on the way from the carburettor, three inducers are now planned with a total of 31 megawatts in force. In addition, land induction has been observed to build a wind - power garden at Kolkuhol, near the outlet of the mixed room. Wind energy has now become a practical option with increasing energy prices, as well as the positive additive effect of wind power. Likely, the wind power garden could contribute more energy than can be achieved by the surgical inactivation. The report considers a number of benefits to the advancement of employment. Among other things, it is noted that the position of data plants in Eastern Lakes is considered an acceptable option. It is similar with the production of biodiversity from the side products of the products of product products, mainly animal fat, but the production of biodiversity is suitable as an addition to existing activities and close to raw materials supports the idea. There are also reports of local ideas that have been announced in the media on the construction of international bodies in a region that is just south of the Parrothran. In a nutshell, the report of the project management is replaced by ideas that could create new jobs. It includes the development of small industry and social services as well as local research and knowledge centres, such as the environment, textil, coastal, and salmon tradition of the region. Added to this, the locals recently sent me a message asking that the project management work be continued and that the latter part of the project will continue to be carried out. At the beginning, the project management was expected to complete the work in September. I would love to grant the request of the local people, waiting for the information on the projects and timing of the earlier tasks, and expecting first and foremost emphasis on the implementation of selected ideas from the above report, including the marketing of the new industry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u28	Mr. President. There is certainly reason to be concerned about employment in the northwestern country. The number of jobs there has decreased, and young people have not found a suitable job. We need to look to many aspects of that subject. The proposal to make the best use of the energy in this area that comes from the mixed, was adopted by all the members of the district council. You ask yourself why it leads, what comes out of it. I feel that the discussion is beginning to disappear a lot beyond the proposed information point. The results of the task group are now being considered at the highest level. A minister refers to, but there's an aluminium inside the picture, which is not what I wrote on when I agreed to the proposal. I think we need to keep in mind what came out of a recent survey, that young people in northwest, Eastland, and the northeast corner are looking, not hard as they look for a job in the future, but rather for travel. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need to keep that in mind in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u29	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. Because of my position, I know a lot about what she mentioned and that I've been doing research. It must be a matter of time later that the local World Power is getting more heavy into the discussion, but as it has been announced, it is able to produce better products, it is cheaper, more efficient, less contaminated, and it is said to be ready to pay energy prices that other worlds do not rely on and remember how it works. But I don't know where that case is right now, but some government representatives saw at least reason to attend a declaration of will and thus to bless it in a certain way. The entire presentation of the project has been in this way, and energy prices are not said to be a problem. There must be a time when we need to take our stand on this option in a clearer way than ever before. The data studio was at its time for observation, and it was a huge project in that area. Sadly, it left the table completely, the big task is not in the picture anymore, and unfortunately, others have not been well established. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers as well as for other participants in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u30	A respectable president. I want to do what I failed to do at the beginning of my speech earlier, i.e. To thank the local people for their initiative and initiative in this matter. It is true that the situation of this region in many respects is a concern of first - century leaders. It has been a long - term defense battle, so it is very positive that the local people take the initiative as they have because it is not successful for us in this room or that we at the government table decide on what sort of job to be in each area. This area has much to offer, especially in tourism and other projects mentioned in the ideal analysis already performed. I think it's important that we take the next step, especially from the perspective where we can improve the infrastructure, whether it involves connections such as fiber optics, which are in good sight in this area, or that we can adapt to the infrastructure so that the area can be competitive with other areas of a potential project that may be run by them. It would then be equipped to build up if there were ideas of a particular project. I would like to commend the locals and look forward to working with them on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u31	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank you for the opportunity to address my inquiry. There has been little discussion of alcohol during this talk last month, but at the beginning of 2014, the government's policy on alcohol and drug abuse was presented. We must not forget that at the same time Iceland has made a commitment to work on a consistent policy in these matters. In this context, I'd like to ask the Minister about some of the goals presented in the northern continent's common policy and find out where Iceland already stands to the target they have set. That's why I, a respectable president, would like to ask the highest. Health Minister to cooperation in the North countries and how he or she has made progress. Has the Minister helped or contributed to or contributed to a plan for further research on alcohol and tobacco use, including incurable diseases, cancer and lifestyle diseases, or contributed to, or was there a plan to further the benefit of experience in children and young adults raised in one or more caregivers who suffer from severe alcohol abuse? In this context, I would like to point out that the North Council has recently had a policy to investigate the late effects on those who have been damaged during childhood. And has the minister helped or had a plan to further the use of effective measures to reduce alcohol consumption and the harmful effects of alcohol? It would be interesting in this context to hear his ideas in order to follow north-land policies and how far Iceland is in meeting the conditions we agreed on in order to carry out our goals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u32	A respectable president. I want to thank you first. paritaprevir Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir for the threefold inquiry she has directed to me. I'm going to run over answers in that subject according to the order of questions listed in the inquiry. I can say that in the context of the questions that over the past decades, research work on alcohol and tobacco consumption in this country has been greatly enhanced and, in fact, all work has been new as some kind of guide to all decision-making and policy measures as well as international and foreign expertise which are so tried to use to work for the prevention, treatment measures, post-treatment therapy, rehabilitation, and then all the knowledge of the State, and particularly the welfare Department, for the implementation of the seminaries of the seminaries. In addition to this, I'd like to mention that by the government of surgeons, there are various professions, including some of them. On alcohol and alcohol abuse, and there's a team of experts, our finest experts in those matters, plus officials. I would also like to mention, in view of what I said earlier, that trying is based on recent knowledge and research findings. It is the office of a surgeon who is holding these factors for us and who has been doing them for some time. This regularly publishes information explaining the magnitude of both tobacco and alcohol abuse, as well as the general case situation. Last appeared before the last weekend of a land surgeon who was discussing the scope and development of the alcohol consumption of Icelanders in recent years. It is quite remarkable, in fact, to look at the information published there, but it is merely a fraction of the wide variety of analyses there can be done. For the research and research being carried out here in accordance with national policies. A member of the body first mentioned that the office's work on the scope of tobacco use has been examined regularly. Studies on the magnitude of adolescent alcohol and tobacco consumption are in the hands of the University of Akureyri and the research and analysis that are regularly conducted among basic and high school students. A survey of adults'health and well - beings prepared by a surgeon asks for alcohol and tobacco use, and then I want to say that the government is working on so - called public health professionals on a national level. Because this is linked to cancer, I would like to mention that I have had a plan for cancer that includes a way or way of reducing alcohol and tobacco intake. I'd like to mention in this relationship, due to the second question about the issues of children and young people, the fact that children and minor minors are the most subject to social security ministers and the Children's Health Organization, so it is not at my desk of the Ministry to cooperate with this factor, there is more on the task of the Department of Social Affairs. Then I want to answer the last question. Yes, it has been referred to and referred to conflicting measures to overcome or reduce the harmful effects of alcohol and tobacco. In this regard, I would like to mention that the latest thing being done is that the surgeon was opening up a new web last week, the health web of health behavior, where information is being published. [[The president calls.]] This is a useful page that I encourage all to examine and share in building up with us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u33	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator for attracting the attention of alcohol and drug defenses, where there is now a bill, more than a little controversial, but not a good entry into that matter. The Government Declaration was about to improve human health and prevention and to become one of the priorities of the government. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how to agree to put alcohol in a camp, because it is considered one of the major risks of increasing access to alcohol and increase in consumption, and also looking forward to the recent progress of the Ministry of Health since the year 2020 in ambitious alcohol and drug defenses. [[The president calls.]] I think it's something of the highest nature. The health minister owes the council an answer. What is his mind on this whole matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u34	Mr. President. Thank you. The foreman of the questions. It's always a good thing to talk about prevention. We have been talking a lot about drug abuse, so it is worth turning to alcohol, which causes no less harm than drugs. I noticed that the highest. A minister said that the question number two, which I'm very interested in, was heard by the social and housing minister. I assume our public health policies run across the Ministry and therefore, in one way or another, this is beneath them. I know of tests and analyses, i.e. the study done in elementary schools regularly, is of good quality and keeps a little tight about it. For the bill we're going to take in here one more trip and talk about, like, a bunch of booze in a camp, there's one good thing about it. In my opinion, there is only one thing that could be quite special and that would not have to be there, and that is a price to be charged with. I think we should see our own respect in deciding that the price will be as loud as it says whether alcohol goes to stores or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator, a advocate of speech, for this discussion. I take to heart that all research in this area is very important to identify the problem and what the solution is because we have to be absolutely clear about what is the most important thing. We have an entire office that's looking at this, the surgeon general, and we can handle it a little, depending on what it counts most, and I encourage it to do so. It was important to discuss the amount of alcohol in his Talna fountain, which appeared on Friday. It reveals that alcohol is deeply affected by the power of riches. There are many other studies in other countries. Iceland is thus the largest threat of increased alcohol consumption.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u36	A respectable president. In this form, there is not much time to discuss material questions at the same time. Senator. But I couldn't help but make a brief comment to what is mentioned here on shops, as we call it a bill that involves shopping, that is, of course, a subject that we come to discuss much more, natural, end a large and large subject, and here not only public health issues on the road but also questions about our culture, whether we like it better or worse. In this context, I would like to mention that it is not just the amount of alcohol that really matters, the way the consumption is, the pattern it is, the way the problems break out, and the handling of each problem. Then I'd also like to mention another because it's a little strange to me how the public and members of Congress do not somehow view alcohol as drugs, drugs, or drugs. Alcohol is no less drugs or drugs than pot or cocaine, it's not. Alcohol is very damaging. There are many dangers. Let's just face the facts when we talk about this party. But let us all rejoice that this is, at least, legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u37	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for his introduction to the discussion as well as to other matters. Councilmen who've come up here. Our job, i.e. Iceland, in these matters, has called attention to the landstones, so I think it's very important that we maintain the right to the cards on our commitments there. The surgeon general, such as the highest. A minister entered, led in these lands, and deserves much credit for our success. For another team in my query of children and youth growing up with one or more caregivers who suffer from alcohol abuse, I will take it into consideration and will redirect that question to the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs. I appreciate the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u38	A respectable president. I also appreciate this discussion. It's useful and good. I would like to encourage members of Congress to discuss all aspects of the matter. In fact, there are remarkable things that have actually happened in this series of languages, such as why. A senator spoke here. The surgeon general is holding these factors very well. But if we compare, e.g. Alcohol and tobacco are free to sell all over the community, each existing store, which has made it very effective to reduce consumption, very large, so exemplary. A senator noted that the results of the Icelanders in that field have given tremendous attention. Then, when you look at what it's about to change, in a speech fountain that came out for the weekend, it's very remarkable to see that alcohol has been drawn together since 2007 when it was 7.5 litres of pure alcohol per person, but in 2014 it is 7.2 litres of pure alcohol per person. This is true in spite of the increase in sales, alcohol licenses, and the number of tourists. For the most part, we are achieving this in my opinion through the progressive work of those working for the prevention and treatment of those who have problems with these substances. I feel that we can do better in this regard. Part of getting better control of this, except for prevention and treatment, is also factors that depend on how we control our consumption, making it easier to look at the prices or payment of the sale of this legal drug that the State has approved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u39	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you very much. Healthcare Minister for making extra funding campaigns to the Development and Behavioral Centres of the capital Health Center to shorten the wait for service. At the same time, I rejoice that the work force is not to be assigned to examine the wide context of the position of this service. Although this is a good payer, it is especially important that this category of subjects contributes to long-term policy development, especially for prophylaxis, diagnosis and treatment of ADHD, which is one of the greatest health issues and one of mankind's most expensive diseases or mental disorders. They feel that ADHD plays a major role in modern society, problems such as addiction, crime, learning problems, family problems, accidents, and loss of employment because of illness. The situation is gravely serious, since there are some 400 children waiting for a more specialized and costly ministry. I'm not talking about the overall problem with ADHD, but as most people know, more than 600 adults are waiting for the ADHD team to attend the Hospital. Regarding the children, it is of utmost importance to all who relate to this matter to keep their problems from becoming so complex, painful, and animallike. Therefore, there is a need to increase in knowledge and prevention from an early age, e.g. Precautions in high school. In this context, multidisciplinary cooperation is very important, e.g. Teamwork between nurserys, health care, psychiatrists and Development centres. The long-term prophylaxis, diagnosis and treatment of ADHD should take into account. As a result, there is no stress in the policy agenda of this mental disorder in a new form of mental - health service. My questions to what? Ministers are: What is the strategy for improving the availability of children to diagnose the neurological disorder ADHD, i.e. Disturbance in attention and hyperactivity? Will Ministers improve the bioavailability of treatment for children diagnosed with ADHD? In view of the minister's efforts, these questions are of particular importance to the long - term plans and policies that are essential for us to reduce the massive cost and quality of life of the children, caregivers and society of all who follow this challenge if adequate management is not taken immediately in the early stages.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u40	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson the questions he has directed to me on the subjects he prepared well in his speech earlier and actually submits to what plans I have to improve the availability of children to the diagnosis of ADHD. It's to answer, like cot. A senator mentioned, that I have decided to increase money to the health care of the capital area in order to expand the analysis of the Development and behavior center up to 200 this and the next year. We're doing this for the Development and behavior centre about 320 analyses a year, so it's going to be quite a bit more. I have high hopes that on this addition, the wait for the children to wait a long time for analysis, i.e. not longer than normal. In this regard, I mean, based on the general organization of this operation and within the range of guidelines for it. I also have hoped that an operation that suggests that mental health policy, the strength of the Children's Youth Department, will be approved. It would be possible to wait for BUGL's services, but there will also be children with ADHD, and some of the more complex problems at the same time. This suggestion has been made as much as I can tell. A senator because we are still working with the mental health policy. About the second question why. Hence, the senator, as I mentioned earlier, is part of a child's problem with mental illness and the strength of BUGL will make treatment available for them children. For other children, surgeons have provided treatment guidelines. It is emphasized that schools and parents resort to the method of attention modeling. So parents need education, and the Development and Behavioral Institute has a course for them in training children with ADHD. This facility also has a school course for children with ADHD. Treatment is used when other treatments do not work. There is no evidence that children who need medication do not receive them today. The next year's financial bill expects us to multiply psychologists at the health care center. In conclusion, a proposal for a psychiatric conclusion that sounds like a lot of people are waiting for, and I expect this week to happen is a suggestion to increase the number of psychiatrists on health care to 2020. This action, if it persists, will, of course, improve the availability of psychiatric services for the entire population and including children. In addition, mental - health policies offer suggestions for increased support to family members, and suggestions with the same objective also subtract family policy now provided for review on the welfare department's web. If all these suggestions go along, I have no doubt that all support for children and families will be greater and more accessible and have been in recent years. Given that this is going to work safely and through the council, and in the years to come, we're getting money to work on the basis of the strategy that comes out of these two, I'm looking forward to a much better service in the years to come. A respectable president. I hope that with those words, I have answered most of the questions that arise. A senator offered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u41	Mr. President. I thank the captain and also the Minister for his answers. I'm pleased with this addition, which should be suggested here; I understand that these sums are reduced to about 200 children on a waiting list. I ask them, Is this the same number of people that could be next year? Is this the same budget in the two years? Because this is new money, that I understand. Where did they come from? I didn't see it on the budget, but I admit I've just looked at them. I'm worried that we haven't been successful with a man-in-law's position in the country. Now a well - versed minister speaks that there is no increase in psychologists in the medical profession. We're building up at the Development and Manners Center and the BUGL, which is very good, there's a great need, but service at home is another matter. People have to make a move, and it's expensive, costly, and difficult. Is it possible for him to see these families elsewhere, these are 1,000 families who are in the full wait in our system, out of the country also, not just here in the big capital area - different from, for example, the psychologists? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u42	V.E.G. President. I'd like to say thank you to the highest degree. A health minister for the current efforts to initiate the analysis of children with possible ADHD, this is an extremely important step to take. I also want to celebrate the ultimate. A health minister has done handsome work on the molding of mental health policy, but I was among the many members of the Parliament who concluded that it would be designed. It has such mental - health issues as so many other things, we look at the money we give in the lawsuit, but at the same time it is of enormous importance because it is a powerful work in this area that promotes the quality of life and saves us a lot of money, even though they do not usually come into the same financial numbers. I would like to mention that I will ask a verbal reply regarding the adult position with ADHD, so that although here is reason to celebrate good steps, we will take many and important steps on the next loss. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u43	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this inquiry, which is very important, and I could no more agree on how important it is to establish a long-term policy conference in this category. Then I think we need to take advantage of the information we have to provide education, both for teachers at all schools and for parents, since children are responsible for adults. It is up to us to make tools to help them before they are in trouble and thus improve their quality of life. I think it is very enjoyable to see that our mental - health program is now becoming evident, and hopefully there are plans in it for the steps we need to take to further the work we do in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u44	A respectable president. I would like to agree with those who have spoken in this discussion on the importance of making additional contributions to development and behavioral stations, including for the diagnosis of attention deficits with hyperactivity, but also for other paediatric problems. The diagnosis is very important, but it is usually even more important what follows, advice and support so that each individual is given the opportunity to be the best version of himself each day. So I would like to stress that the cost of handling problems may be great, but if each of us can look for information, knowledge and counselling as the process progresses, we can save an extraordinary amount of money for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u45	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advisor for this discussion and the highest. Minister for the campaign and clear answers. I singled out the minister's statement that he spoke of education for parents, behavioral development, and the importance of information about the position, treatment, and everything that belongs to it are like a device. I wanted to emphasize this aspect and encourage him to work to the full extent that these factors will be promoted. In the basic schools of recent years, we have seen that the parents are far from successful. In the country, we have examples of parents who drive south to study, to get all possible knowledge, then teamwork with school, and so on. Although doctors and medications are very often needed and useful, the same is true of the work where all caregivers and teachers meet in a regular manner, including the best results.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u46	Mr. President. Thank you very much. The medical minister's comments as well as those who participated in the discussion. This is a very helpful and effective discussion. I strongly encourage the minister to give this matter continued support with a long - term schedule in mind. As we have seen in the case of members of the Parliament, it is extremely important to have a long - term plan on these matters. He has to face my sentence with his mouth, and he's gonna have to kill himself for getting into this party the money that is enough to work on all too long waitrs in the shortest time. He needs to refer to the table of all the good experts we have in this disease - a person's understanding of whether it is a mental disorder - as well as those associated with the well - being of children in one way or another in order to increase the knowledge, prevention, and cross-cutting cooperation in the field so that there will be no longer be a long waiting period of specialized and expensive service. That's key. It's always a question of what's a normal wait. I don't think there should be any waiting for this group, like maybe many others. From my own experience at school and after seeing how this works, I feel that I can't wait, for it costs us a lot of money. I also asked you a question in spring to the highest. Internal Minister for ADHD on the punishment of prisoners. It was found that about 60% of prisoners had this disorder, ADHD and other mental disorders, and even speech disorders. These young people have gone off the track because they did not get the help they needed at an early stage. That's key. I'd like to encourage the highest, too. A minister to take into account matters involving ADHD in a new mental - health policy. Whatever people may think of it, some call it a fashion phenomenon, I'm not one of them because I'm with ADHD myself, it's extremely important that we take special care of it with all the other psychiatric conditions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u47	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion on this subject and the questions. A senator threw up here. Of course, there are conflicting opinions about all creation in these matters. I hear that there is high expectations for mental healthism that will soon arrive at the council. It is happy that members of Congress want to cooperate with it. At the same time, I am convinced that it will not respond to the wishes or needs of all who are involved in it. It must then be made upon the council what changes it will and will want to make. Although the practice of mental - health practices has been very broad, the same is true of all human works that have been designed in different ways. I would like to emphasize that the procedure here to shorten the waiting list takes more time than just two months before the New Year's season. We watch that this action will shorten the waiting list if we do at least 200 more analyses. When this discussion came up, we searched the drawers and scraped it out at the Ministry rather than making some financial proposal. I wanted to look into all the possibilities of financing this up with museum members if we had some leeway there. Fortunately, it did. I'd like to mention, too, that BULG and the Development and Behavioral Station serve the whole country. I am totally aware of the cost of the people in the pursuit of this specialized plan for a long time. We have to assume that at some point, we will be able to build a multicenter team that makes it possible for people to have more service at home in the district. [[The president calls.]] BUGL has successfully cooperated with the Akureyri Hospital for Special Service. [[The president calls.]] Once again, thank you so much for this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u48	V.E.G. President. One of the world's largest paintings has been the Venetian coercion in Iceland since 1960. This year, the artist Christoph Büchel was representing Iceland on the double. His work involved the transformation of a church that had been desecrated 40 years ago into the mosque and handed it over to a Muslim community in Venice for use. It is hardly surprising to say that ten days after the opening, it was decided to shut down the city in Venice. Articles in an art journal have noted that this was not the first event of such a censorship, usually when it took place in recent years if it had something to do with Islam. Christophs Büchels's work points to a large impact on Islamic culture in Venice and has sociopolitical appeals for public transport and their cultural blending in parallel, as well as to serve as a Mexican community of Muslims in Venice and Iceland, where a daily cultural and educational program was to be conducted for the public during the seven months of their double labor. I'd like to ask you a few questions to the highest level. Secretary of Education and to state that the National Public Publicist Center has been very aggressive in this case, including Persuaded by judicial cases in Italy, this decision was not successful. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he is pleased with the contribution of Iceland to the Venice Revolution 2015, the government's censorship in Venice was not open to the public. I'd also like to ask a minister how he objected to the government decision in Venice. Finally, I would like to ask him what he will do in order to open Iceland's contributions to the public again. It may be that there are about three weeks left of the exorcism. It's really hard to believe that Iceland has to accept this conclusion. We're not supposed to. We are not to accept the fact that our contribution to this type of censorship is to be made. It also helps us to realize that this is not the first time that such things happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry. As to the first question, is the minister satisfied that the material was written, the answer is simple: No, not at all. I am the opinion, it is my personal evaluation, that there was a very remarkable work of art, interesting for many reasons, and exactly the role of artists to deal with such questions as religion and religion, religious debates, and other factors that are so important in our society today. So I'm very sorry. Then they ask me how I have objected to the government decision in Venice. Then, in time, I have repeatedly described my position to regret this decision by the state of Venice. I believe the Icelandic project for the Venetian divinity this year is a work of art - a fundamental factor here - that was that as many as possible enjoy it and then shape their views on it. In fact, I think it's a shock to Venice to have lived up to these issues. The other is essential, in fact, to a final question. A senator, that there is no way for a minister of education to protest directly to the authorities in another country in this regard. You can try to think of it if Reykjavíkurburg, or any other community in Iceland, made some arrangements in a showup here that would be showing works by an artist and would have a court order to deal with that way -- they can see it in their country's education Minister of the country where an artist comes from having a hard time going straight into it. On the other hand, I have supported the efforts that the Public Assembly has had to try to get a judgment status on this subject. Unfortunately, it went as it went. I believe the PRC has tried to do everything that was possible for her to try to get this piece open again. It is proper to remember that justification in the end was primarily because the Venetian city authorities felt that Iceland's contribution to the Venetian diocese was a sense of order for organized religious activity and Muslim prayer. Hence, according to government interpretation, it was not an art show but a place for religious belief and the show was closed, and permission to operate such a place according to the rules other than artistic installations was required. I don't think this approach will work. It is the Council of the Government of Venice, which leads to this conclusion, and an appeal was made in the case, requesting prompt treatment, which was rejected. As people look at the outcome of the judicial hearings and then the possibility of suing a case before a general court to settle the decision, such treatment may take a very long time, it may take up to that year before such a charge is taken. Then it's been a long time for the showcase. I would like to reiterate, sir, that I am very sorry that Venice City has done wrong, that is, my opinion, by closing this show, she has had a significant business, it is without doubt a work of art. I also believe that this is an obstacle to the presentation itself that this has happened in this way. It should be emphasized, however, that this city's requirement is not for the exhibitionists. I hope these things don't happen again. I think it's a censor's value. I think it's a pressure to be free from artists to express their opinion. There's no such thing as an artist's personal business. This is the case of all of us because we need artists to deal with challenging questions that may be unpleasant to discuss but that are absolutely necessary. That is why it would have been better done in another way, in my opinion, of a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u50	President. I want to thank you for your discussion. I've only tried to get answers here at the Assembly Hall on who's responsible to be our representative of the Venice Extreme. Somehow it seems that no one can do anything to make it clear, whether through the highest power. Minister of Education or the Supreme Minister. Secretary of State, that we are not content to allow our freedom of expression, because this is also a problem with freedom of expression in Italy. As a result, I don't think it's dangerous for us to speak up when the Olympic Games itself shut down the freedom of expression and simply shut off a show from our representatives with premium and credit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u51	A respectable president. First, I would like to thank someone for calling attention to this very important and interesting subject. I am especially happy to hear the grandest of all. The minister of culture and education accepts that there is a censorship here. This is a very important matter, reflecting how we deal with refugees from Irish areas. On the other hand, I don't quite understand that position. Minister that he himself cannot object to this decision, I think he can quite write letters like any other. I'm the highest. Ministers to further use themselves in this case and if that work is being in cooperation with the highest level. The minister of state feels that there should be an easy solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. I'd like to say that I, as an Icelander, am very proud of our contribution to the Venetian divinity, and I'm proud that we have shown the power to send a controversial assignment to that show and this Olympic stadium, as it were. I believe Iceland is definitely supposed to continue its participation there, as we have in the past 55 years. However, I believe that there is a certain risk of what has happened today that some kind of self - examination will be applied to the next donation, for it is certainly no joke to contribute much to this event and have to be afflicted because the work is not enjoyed and is censored in this way. That's why I think it's very important that we take the case as far as possible, that we show that we think it's not just intolerable to Iceland's contribution but simply a threat to artist's freedom of expression as well as to others. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he doesn't agree with me that everything else is a certain possibility of self - examination, and I also ask him if he is willing to review in any way that Iceland can appeal to the data obtained in Venice and there's a local member, whether it's a Minister of Education, Minister of State or anyone else who's going to sue us all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-02-26.u53	A respectable president. First of course, regarding the formal intervention of a minister to another state, it is clear that formal communication between governments is acting in certain ways. Another factor is that the independence of rural society is much more complex in most countries in the Western world and in their countries it is even more complex. Bear in mind that the management of the covering centre has been held on this matter. I believe that in a town, men did this as well as possible in view of the narrowing conditions that existed. I want to draw attention to one thing, because of the words of the proverb, which turn to the future. It was noted in this context that when a statement was made by the Venetian coronator headquarters, which confirmed that Iceland's contribution to the exhibition was a work of art, a matter of whether it was art or worship, the Venetian Office did not accept that request, despite the introduction of the work in the past fashion of art, including the project. in the selected schedule. So, of course, you have been very disappointed with the city authorities, as well as with the showkeepers. I think it's very important, and I think it's the right thing to do. A senator, that no self - examination be made in this matter. I also feel that it matters when we discuss these matters here in Iceland. I have to admit that I didn't think what I saw during the discussion was in my best interest. I overlooked the artist's vital role in discussing such matters in this very way, which was both original and brilliant, and that led to a discussion. We need to be careful that we do not fall into the trap of censoring ourselves from this point on, and I will direct it to the director of the presentation center. As a matter of fact, I don't think that's necessary because I think in this town people are totally smart that they don't fall into such a pit. I think people have a good understanding of it and will not let such things happen to them.
