ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u1	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers, Social and Housing Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u2	A respectable president. The government announced on Saturday on the matter of action on the behalf of refugees, and I want to begin by celebrating that action and expressing special satisfaction that in such a delicate and important cause of refugees'affairs it seems that there is going to be a very broad political controversies. There are many of us here at the government stand who have proposed a plagiar resolution to the arrival of refugees in the next three years. The government is now playing out ideas of solution this year and the next one, and I'm celebrating it. However, I am stressing that this is not a two - year - long work assignment. Rather, it will require a continuing solution for years to come to address this great problem. One particular point I'd like to mention. In interviews this weekend at what? The members of Brá Konráðsdóttir Konsolsdóttir and Óttar Proppér, who introduced conditions in the Mediterranean refugee camps, were prominent in their experience that their hopelessness was complete and complete in this refugee camp, as people were simply experiencing many years'waiting for relief and that the order would never be the case, because people were buying a ride with murderers across the Mediterranean and risking their lives. It's the highest. The prime minister prepared, and the government, that we consider together in what ways we can especially deal with this problem? Can we give these people autographs and make it easier for them to come here and obtain further relief from their problems? In what ways can we try to reach people? Of course, it is cheaper to buy a flight to Iceland than to pay off the enormous sums of money people pay criminals to get a ride across the Mediterranean. [[The president calls.]] What can we do to help people cope?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for expressing delight in the actions that have been introduced because of the situation in Syria and other refugees, many of whom have come to Europe recently, while much more still await solutions elsewhere. A senator mentioned. It is also true that this is a ongoing problem for a predictable future. It is vital that we approach it in that way and therefore approach it collectively. Hv. A senator spoke of the hopelessness that seems understandable to exist in parts of a refugee camp, especially in Lebanon, and the importance of giving these people some hope rather than the fact that the message from Iceland and other European countries was that nothing was done unless they made a life - threatening journey to try to smuggle themselves into Europe. That is exactly why it is highlighted in the strategy that was introduced yesterday to offer people the advantage of coming directly from refugee camps to Iceland. In this regard, Lebanon is specifically referred to. I understand that conditions in refugee camps vary considerably depending on where they are. In Turkey and Jordan, conditions will not be as bad as Lebanon, so we do our part to improve the situation in these camps, e.g. by providing health care and food, but also giving people who meet the criteria to meet in order to be considered a fugitive of the opportunity to arrive in Iceland in large groups that we can provide them with all the necessary services here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u4	A respectable president. Thank you very much. However, it is important to note that of the United States on the international scale, it is also important that we, in general, try to open the way for refugees from the refugee camps. Of course, the best way is to reduce the number of people there, allow them to come here and get their legal rights here, apply for asylum here. The same might be true of other Western countries, to relieve the pressure in the camp, and to show the people that waiting in the queue produces results, in time for this not to be hopeless. I would like to finally reiterate the word that it is extremely important in Icelandic politics that there can be an important human language like this. Once again, I rejoice that the government has presented a serious case package.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u5	A respectable president. I agree with that. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's annual son Árnason's words that it is desirable for the Icelandic government to take the lead internationally, in dealing with other countries, to consider this part of the problem. In my opinion, it's been missing a little bit, at least in the media discussions we have observed, but in the near future there will be plenty of meetings on these matters. There, Icelanders, to the extent that they participate in that work, will take the initiative to think more of this part of the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u6	Mr. President. Last April, on the front cover of the News News News, announced a proposal from the highest level. Prime Minister that to celebrate the anniversary of the sovereignty would attack the construction of the House of Icelandic instructors, the construction of the International Assembly Hall, according to the blueprints of the Guðjón of Samúelsson, and the construction of the Assembly Hall would be carried out. After that report appeared on the front page of the newspaper, we were invited to discuss this proposal by the chairman of the anti - anti - generals. They concluded by waiting for further news. Especially was it considered whether it was reasonable for the World Council Committee to address a new building for the Council, while other projects, especially the International Education, were familiar and should be of great interest to us, for what is now known as the Canal of Icelandic Education has lasted for some time. Of course, a decision must be made whether to fill the hole or to build a house for the manuscripts and the activities involved. It's not just about a place of preservation, it's about teaching and research in Icelandic. Of course, we should be particularly concerned about its situation now when one expert after another warns us that we could be getting to the point of modern computer technology that Icelandic might be slipping away from us. Meanwhile, the hole is still there, reminding us of how we live in the past and in the future. The reports have since come, I haven't received the confirmation that the matter was fixed in the House of Independence. I don't know anything about it. I don't belong to them. So I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister: Where does it say? Do we expect a decision to determine whether we will build a house over Icelandic science? Is there any conclusion regarding the facilities for the council and the Þingles that we expect?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u7	A respectable president. I'm not a member of a council of independence, either. A senator has to ask someone other than me about the situation there. The suggestion as a man. A senator can handle government privileges, and several projects are set up to celebrate the 100th anniversary of sovereignty. One of them is the home of Icelandic students. It is also true. A senator mentioned, that the International Assembly Hall projects are also referred to, but I can't claim to have that idea because it had been discussed when, I understand, on a prime committee, and considered at the Ministry of State that it might be, and would most likely be practical for the council to have their own place to meet the needs of the council's offices rather than renting the high rent that needs to be paid here at Eastern courts. Well, that's another story. About what question? A senator as to whether we can make a suggestion to celebrate the 100th anniversary of a sovereign in the way that has been attributed here, I certainly hope that it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u8	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Prime Minister's information. In his case, he, like me, was not a member of the Independence Party, but I did not get a clear answer to whether the matter was to be concluded or the ultimate. The prime minister insisted that the case be closed or that the matter would be accurately delayed. I think it would be a waste of all time if we took these cases back up, whether in the form of the proposal as the highest. The prime minister offered or in some other way, wanting to encourage the highest degree. The prime minister to take the initiative that all of these matters will be restored and will tell us what has really taken place since the report appeared on the cover of the April 1 news page so that this will not really prove to be April. I'm waiting for the highest. On the other hand, the prime minister will tell us what keeps the matter going and will encourage him to apply himself to the reinstatement of these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u9	A respectable president. I appreciate the encouragement and will accept it and work on it. In terms of the question of delays, I think it's only a matter of having a good look at things, going the most practical way, because, of course, we've been dealing with the need to save money in the government business in the past few years, and suggestions that include considerable costs are naturally taken to evaluate whether it can be done in any other way and whether it's as well as possible. We're gonna go for a second. A senator can only agree that hopefully we will come to a conclusion on this matter in time to celebrate the 100th anniversary of the sovereignty in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u10	President. Recently it was stated that there was a change in regulations that would enable high school students to take on an audition. It's like a wet barrel in the face of a lot of school directors. V.E.G. The minister says in an interview at the visi.is, by permission of the president: ▪ We do not know any reality of young people who are finishing school. Many of the work we do today will be gone. Therefore, it is important to build key skills so that they can become active participants in a future society. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of Education what he is exactly saying here. What are some of the jobs that may be gone, and in what context does he see the auditions in connection with the learning to become more active participants in a future society? I can't quite figure this out, i.e. Based on these test results. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Ministers, why are the most effective methods of learning to find out about them and whether they believe that these suggestions will lead to increased trust, such as the Ministry and the head of the school, or whether this is in order to undermine that confidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u11	A respectable president. What was being discussed in that interview as a matter of course. A senator read a small part of it. The fact is that the technological changes that cross the world, and the speed is increasing, are making the work that we know today likely to disappear, and new ones will be replaced. Hv. A senator asks: "What job? If I had now, most respectable President, then a crystal ball, I wouldn't be standing here. That is just what is so hard to predict. It is kind of unfair to realize what jobs they will be doing. There are a number of examples in recent years and decades of the changes that have resulted from technological advances that have replaced new jobs. For example, I refer to such a long - range commercial way of life as the seabed, the changes that have occurred there. There is only one example, but we will see much more changes in this regard. The changes that are about to take place now, and that have passed through the elementary school, are about to give students the skills that are fundamental to the very idea that we are preparing them in the most general way under this reality. As early as 2011, when the general part of the main course was adopted and published, a new rating system, a letter system that has been discussed has been established, but it has been seen in some of the school leaders who are taking students and who are also able to reject, because there is more demand for them than there is in room, that a new rating system does not provide an adequate picture for schools in terms of student priorities. On the other hand, I appreciate it so that the rating system that is now being given to students and parents is very effective. However, there are only a few schools, perhaps four, five, or six schools in the country, who are in the position of choosing and rejecting students of over 30 high school schools, and it is probably a matter of considering how such standards can be met. There is no need to cause in any way a lack of trust or cooperation between the Ministry of Education, the Institute of Education and the Schools, in no way, in any way a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u12	President. I watched a brand - new documentary last week interview with a school manager in Finland. One of the things that struck me exactly what he said, asked why the Finns did so well, was that perfect trust prevailed between different ladders that have the school system to do. I think a minister's ideas somehow are completely out of harmony with that. I'd like to ask a minister, why doesn't a minister trust a student assessment of the elementary schools based on long - term ability? An injection test will only be done on the surface. I know these suggestions have caused much concern for students in the 10th grade right now. I have to say, I feel irresponsible in offering such suggestions without being updated and discussing them properly with the school directors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u13	A respectable president. First, it should be noted that the calculus that has been used in recent years, since the results of the uniform tests, suggests that the gel in the scale of a high score of inflammation, so that it is up to the level of inadequacy, i.e. that it is impossible for high school students to compare grades from different schools. In other words, high school directors have no comparison - a problem that has been repeated. As a result of confidence in school ladders, the problem is reflected in what I was saying, school levels find it difficult to understand what the other school is doing or say or send messages about. This is also reflected at college for college. What is being worked on, and has been in progress since 2011, is a new grade at the elementary school level, but I restate that no one has been proposed or implemented. Right away. A senator asks why the suggestions have not been submitted before the introduction, so this is because the discussion is under way. A respectable president. If this country has to be started at all times by making preparations and developing a suggestion, how will a discussion about anything in this country be started? That is exactly what it means to call for viewpoints, opinions, and viewpoints to be considered so that when it comes to it, a person can take some informed stand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u14	A respectable president. I'd like to ask for the highest. The prime minister explained to us and to the nation all his opinions on what has been presented in the media during the recent development of the Land Hospital on Ring Road. V.E.G. The prime minister has suggested that he believes that the structure should be performed elsewhere. The Parliament has agreed to the resolution of building on Ring Road. The budgets of this year and the next one are put on the job. Design and implementation are on the move. Looks the best. The prime minister, so that a final decision was not made on the matter? Does he think that he will oppose this structure at the Ring Road?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u15	A respectable president. Thank you for an interesting question about interesting matters. I've declared it before and several times, I actually don't remember how many years since I've been discussing it first, that I thought there are indications that for a long time, if they are really going to build a new land hospital, it's more wise to do it somewhere else than me and Ringway, then somewhere where you can start from the foundation with a magnificent, modern, new hospital in a place that goes better with transportation. However, it is quite clear, and I have indeed learned it as often as I have discussed this matter over the head, that it must be subject to significant improvements in the home of the hospital. He will be there sometime more, and while the hospital is at this point, he will need to consider the necessary maintenance, construction, and construction. There may be things that need to be built in the hospital so that he can fulfill his role. But there is nothing wrong with long - term wondering if this is the best place to do so. Then I've pointed out that in the past few years, there has been quite a lot that has turned into real estate. There's no place to see an empty house near the downtown city of Reykjavík to turn it into a hotel. The old hospital and many buildings around it could be very suitable for hotels, and then they can play on what they could get for all these buildings and possibly buildings just around them and whether they could even finance a new hospital elsewhere with money. However, people have not been prepared to consider it, and I have declared that when even the city says it will stop the project if one allows it to examine such things, I will not, of course, be the one to delay the necessary projects and improvements in the Land Hospital. [[The president calls.]] In most cases, though, it is better for a person to at least think about and discuss things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u16	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for these answers and agrees with him that everything can be discussed. With regard to the figures mentioned by the prime minister, KPMG has been calculated that if the hospital is taken to a new location instead of going to this building on Ring Road, it will now have to be costing 21 billion. Real estate would then likely have to be sold around 21 billion if this was to come out on a plain. In the name of the discussion, it can also be noted that the real estate in which the hospital is now in is 17 in the capital area. They include the hospital in Fos Sorcere, so I don't see any basis for it to have a health hotel there, for example.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u17	A respectable president. This is a very pleasant discussion, and in fact, even a special discussion on this subject. I would love to be part of it. As for this estimate of 21 billion, I'm not going to fully describe myself to this report, but I'm not saying that even if it seemed to be the case, even though it was the right thing to do, I think it could be established that it would be 21 billion and, in fact, much more than for all these property and building rights on the surrounding grounds. The problem has been that the city has not wanted to explore that possibility, and it threatened just to take the property and it all into something else. It would just upset everything, and we don't want to do it. You're right. A senator also points out that there are a lot of real estate in Fos Sow. They need to be taken into account when they allow themselves to speculate. It is quite different, then, to look at the possibility of more building in the Fos Soil or using it for something else. Hv. A senator mentioned a health hotel but forgot to guess if there would be a private hotel that would, of course, blow up this discussion. [[The president calls.]] I think the conclusion is that this is a subject for further discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u18	A respectable president. You ask yourself, " Is it the highest? ' The secretary of finance is serious, because we Icelanders have arrived where the right to restart the personalization of the Lands Bank? Is it not so that for many years taxpayers have made a lot more money having the Lands Bank than they would have had if they had sold it? It's too short since collapse, isn't it? Have we not made too little changes in the financial system to make it safe for the government to withdraw now from the financial market? Isn't there not a perfectly abnormal business environment with currency capitals and abnormal financial resources and conditions that give no basis for selling the estate of the State in the Bank of the Lands? Is it not that in a financial market, the market has almost one - in - one activity on the part of three giants? Is it not dangerous to think that the Kingdom will be drawn out of that market? Is it not necessary for us to pursue further competition and lower financial costs before people start letting private citizens in the markets? We haven't talked many times, including. Me and the highest. Secretary of finance, the absolute need to ensure permanent legalization that there can never again be that one individual or even a tiny gang could take over a large business bank in this country? Has Secretary of finance completed this task? Is it safe to sell the assets? I believe that this proposal of the minister is completely premature and must be asked if it is not absolutely necessary for the taxpayers to make more money selling it than to own it. Is it not absolutely necessary to ensure that calamity does not recur by allowing a few business people to take over a large part in financial management? [[The president calls.]] And is not the financial market still in that review, and does he not need the upkeep and competition to think that the State is contrary to taking action on that market and not being suspended? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u19	Mr. President. I have never suggested that the state pulls out as its owner to the Bank of Lands. However, I have continued the course developed during the last term to recommend that we maintain an open source for sale of the State of the Lands Bank, up to 30%, and that is to be found in the budget bill, a proposal to do so. Hv. A senator here raises the issue of high opinions, and I'm going to begin by saying that I am the State of the Lands Bank for a long time. I believe at the same time that it can be a great advantage for all the people of the country that the state reduces its property to, let's say about 40%, and uses the value of the sale to pay off debt and reduces the very high interest costs the state has to pay every year. In fact, it was always the idea, from the birth of the Land Bank, that the state would take away its ownership, to which the Bank Office was established. It is the banking agency that prepares these actions and will present its proposals later in the winter. So I think that in this sense we can both sell the cake and own it, we just don't sell it all, and we'll still be the bare shareholder. In this, there is the difference between what it is and what it is. A senator is describing, and another, that the state pulls itself out of its possession toward the Bank of the Lands. And I'm gonna answer that question as a question. A senator shows whether we have made the necessary changes: Yes, there have been tremendous changes in financial activities. For example, the Lands Bank has more than 20% of its own money, probably best financed, as a share of the total capital, bank in Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u20	A respectable president. Selling 30% shares in the Bank of Lands is a huge decision for the state, much less selling a 60-60% share in the bank. [[For example, consider: Who mentioned it?]] Such a decision is that I know absolutely untimely because we live in an unnatural business environment in the country. Here's still a capital master for the people. Here, the bank is still a huge profit from banks'abnormal environments; taxpayers are making much more money than selling it. The lack of competition here is growth, interest differences, and services too high. There is a lack of free competition in a financial market, and I disagree with the secretary of finance that we have made enough changes in the financial system after a collapse. You can make one mistake. That's what we did last time we privateized the banks. The other is much more serious, to make the same mistake again, and we need to take much better time to make the environment normal here, establish a natural business venture, and ensure the interests of the taxpayers in this large matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u21	It is not surprising, in itself, that the Union talks to the bank and the state activities at more commercial fields than banking, it is not surprising. It is also in the spirit of convergence to change one's mind regularly. The Synod was behind the motion that the Lands Bank be sold, that the state would sell it, and even set aside for sales to finance new government expenses for that purpose. This debate that the bank is not to be sold that goes well because it is much better to have it and have it - wait, what kind of world do people live in? A well-to-do bank sells at high prices. And the high price that people will gain for selling the share of the State, the limited share of the state in the bank, will be used in the interests of a good cause, paying up debts, debts set up in order for the state to have a share in the bank. It's that simple. There is no other suggestion here, and there is no suggestion in the budget for anything more than 70%. [[The president calls.]] We're in that place. With regard to the principle, of course, we will continue to have to improve financial order. [[The president calls.]] I wasn't saying that this project was over or that I didn't need to be aware of the financial market rule, but huge changes have been made. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u22	Mr. President. I thank you for the opportunity to discuss the recent cases of refugees. This year's situation has been quite different. There are new reports each day of people dying on their way to Europe or of persons who get to overcrowded refugee camps in Italy or Greece. It is estimated that 110 thousand refugees came to Italy from Libya for the remaining year, and 160 thousand fled to Greece from Syria through Turkey this year. As we all know, the flow of refugees in Europe has not been greater since the end of war. More than 2 thousand refugees have drowned in their quest for a better life in Europe during this year. We all remember the picture of the little boy, Aylan Kurdi, who washed up on the beach in Turkey. This morning a five - year - old Syrian girl was found dead in the island Sea after a boat sank, and some people miss her. The government introduced action this weekend, which I think we at the government stand have all rejoiced. At least I've done it. I'm glad the government has made a decision. I welcome the financial contributions to be placed in the company of refugees, and I believe this is a responsible attitude, and that's what matters. I'd like to say here, and it was shown in a case of the highest. The prime minister in these news reports that this is not a major project, this is a long - term project. We may be seeing the most extensive move we have seen in modern times. We may be seeing a prolonged situation in which people leave their homes, and of course no one is joking. It's important to watch this with long - term reasons. Therefore, I wanted to discuss both short - term measures that the government has already introduced but also long - term vision. We're seeing that the system we live in Iceland is complicated. At least that's what I've seen. I'm just a normal person, and it was hard for me to figure out the difference between a fugitive and a fugitive. Refugees are those who actually decide to receive the government, those who take refuge are the ones who make it. On the basis of the Order of Dublin, many of them are rescinded. People are being reenacted these days. It is thought - provoking at the same time that we have decided to welcome refugees. Don't we need to take a look at the affairs of the trustees and see the Order of Dublin, which is based on the fact that the rest of the people coming here have come to another Schengen State and has been re-imbursed to that country? They have the same reputation with refugees that they face threats in their country of origin and are therefore applying for international protection. I'd like to hear a vision of the highest. Prime Minister of this position and the state of the Schengen area, whether there is reason to review the Order of the Dublin and how we are going to combine this situation, as I said earlier, to be a long-term situation so that we can respond accordingly. By this year, 200 refugees have already applied for international protection, and there is a significant increase since last year. I also want to discuss what we can do together in politics to respond to the climate of racialism that may result in this great national migration. This is a talk that is loud and loud in other parts of the North, i.e. Fear of those who are different. There, people have talked about us seeing conditions that are more likely to match the interwar years when it comes to the fear of both of us, if we can put it that way. I think it should be our political cooperation to fight racism, make sure that we follow the views of Iceland through the Declaration of Human Rights that each person has the right to live the best possible life possible, and it doesn't matter what origin people are. If we could get together on that, I think it would be inexpensively valuable to Icelandic politics for the long term. It is a project that we also need to handle together with what we discuss in governance, political issues in connection with refugees, what we are going to do with them, how we are going to deal with them, and how to develop the discussion in the community, so that we can make sure that we can continue living here all in peace and harmony. I think it's important to hear what's at the top. The prime minister has this long - range view. We know it all here, and we know it from other northern countries, who have received a considerable number of refugees and refugees more than the population in Iceland, that this discussion has flared up. [[The president calls.]] How important it is that we stick together to fight it!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u23	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the discussion of this enormously large solution that, like the whale, has been described. A senator could do this, not a case that will be solved this year, and not at the following. Rather, he calls for men to take steps to prepare for these changes that may be needed to deal with over a long period of time, which may include the review of the Dublin Protocol and the Schyngen Coalition, which, in fact, seems to be being completely upset. It has not been very reassuring to observe how the European Union has coped with this problem, each in a different direction. We must hope that the next loss will be better able to combine and view the whole thing, but that is fundamental to the course of action. A senator turned aside, and the government introduced the matter. Saturday, on the day before yesterday, people look at the whole problem, but they didn't look at just one of its smells. This means that we need here at home, in increasing numbers, to view refugees and fugitives as one group. Various relief groups, including the Red Cross, have pointed to this need, and it has become extremely urgent today because it has made such a fundamental change in how people come to the land. Previously, it was totally excluded that men would come here as fugitives on their own and be granted leave by humanitarian grounds. Almost all the refugees who came to the country were what are known as armaholics. That's right, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, mentioned, that these matters are very complicated and take time to realize them. It is clear that today, the number of refugees who come here is going to seek the status of a fugitive very rapidly. The increase has been about 50% per year in the past year, year after year, but it now appears that the increase between 2014 and 2015 will reach 100%, i.e. should be high in order to double between years. We see that only in August, 50 people applied for asylum here in the country, and I think the figure is already reaching that number in this month. Already 54, just this year, we've received the status of a fugitive, or we've got an asylum, or a human-interestment warrant that is far more than in recent years. It seems now clear that when this meets, the number of refugees in this country will only be considerably more than 100 this year. It is very important to also remember that the situation in the refugee camps, such as we discussed only once in the field of inquiry, in the countries around Syria and Syria itself, is that people there live at first in conditions that are as good as can be prepared in refugee camps, at least at least. that people do not starve, and that they do not lack necessary sanitation and health care, but they also have some hope, so that there is no evidence that they have no hope for the future unless they risk their lives trying to get into Europe illegally. It is one of the peculiar features of this approach to all that if they enter Europe illegally and reach Germany, German governments have declared that they will be welcome, while men cannot act legally, do not act in the embassies, or bring in a flight that is inexpensively less than they would buy in a smuggler's boat. This is something that governments in Germany and other European countries must consider and wonder if there is a greater need for the way we are preaching in Iceland, giving more people the opportunity to come directly from the refugee camp to the European countries, i.e. the people who meet the conditions that must be set to give you the status of a fugitive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u24	Mr. President. I think it's very important that Icelanders both live under their international and moral commitments. I find it extremely important to deal with such issues as this to be an extensive partnership, since we do not allow ourselves to be cut in line by the traditional category of political conflict lines. The problem is likely to increase, it is becoming a new fracture line in Syria that is likely to trigger even a larger wave of refugees than we have seen today. I think it's the highest. A government has handled this matter with understanding and responsibility. I believe that in her decision this weekend, there is a measure of reconciliation on the government side of this matter. I think this might give us a chance for a new start. I'm not here to participate in a discussion about the future organization, I'm on a transnational Senate committee that has achieved the amazing success of almost completing a bill in complete reconciliation, there is a really great stage, and I want to put forth a great deal of effort to maintain that solidarity. I believe the amount of money at the highest. The government has proposed this matter, and faster than I expected, enough to finally lay the proper ground for the arrangement being developed. Let us not forget that the management board has been doing quite well to the point that although it is abdicated, it has uprooted a good system, which I believe this step by the government will finally give us a chance to do. This is what I call a new opportunity in these matters. There may be two things I'd like to say we need to do, we need to set up an emergency treatment based on putting up applications in 10◯15 days, and there's something to do about the Exquisite Committee of Foreign Affairs. A new, unexpected bottle neck has developed there. That's what I'm waiting for. Prime Minister to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u25	A respectable president. The discussion of the refugee problem has been very beneficial to me, this nation and politics. The time has come for Icelanders to do far better than they have already done when it comes to refugees. I agree with what has been said here that it may be time for some breakthrough, that Icelanders will start to do their part properly. I welcome the declaration of the government this weekend, that there should be more money in it. I also hope that in the coming days, I will see further progress on how this money will be spent, but I also have a clear understanding that it may depend on factors that may not necessarily be revealed today. There's a lot of work to do, and I'm saying that this whole thing needs to be approached. We're not just welcoming refugees. There are also different types of refugees. We also need to contribute to the areas in which disasters occur. We can do so in many ways, such as health care, some kinds of water supply, education, and other factors that we could possibly contribute to. We too need to be a voice on a global scale. I just got back from the ÖSE Council in Mongolia with my head. paritaprevir Andersen's victory came up, and that case was very distressing. We need to be able to do our part in the discussion and to try to contribute to some international harmony. Then we need to be clear. If so, we need to set a good example. Here we are taking a step in that direction. Then I wondered, " Is it not yet the turning point that Icelanders have to think simply about the 21st century? ' Where are we going to stand? How open are we going to be? Shouldn't we be an open society? Aren't we too few? Don't we have to be more? Do we not also need to be prepared to examine this simply based on the economic goals of the Icelanders? Don't we need to multiply? There are only two ways to do that, are there not? That's the way we're gonna talk here now and then the others. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you for this very important discussion today. I spent a week visiting refugee camps in Turkey and Lebanon, as well as visiting the employees of the Red Cross and the Refugee Institute, who care for these matters in these two countries and in Sicily. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir Proppé, we intend to share the information that we drew on our journey to all interested people, and we will begin by hosting a meeting for senators for lunch on Wednesday. I hope to see as many people as possible. The message - we asked the refugees we could talk to: What are your messages to the world's leaders? What is it that we can take from you directly to them? The refugees we talked to in Lebanon said: First, they send more help to Lebanon. We're all here, we want to go home. We came here to stay under cover for a few weeks, then a few months, and now it's been a few years. We were never going anywhere but to go back home. However, we are losing hope, so we either need more help here so that we can obtain the health care we need, our children get some education, and we can live here. The message was also that people would like us to contribute to the peace of Syria so that one day they could go home. It is not that all those in Lebanon's refugee camps experience themselves waiting in a row for them to make it to make it to the point that they are waiting for them to make it to make it to become eaters, not at all. It's not what people are thinking about, it's just about going home, just as we would have to move to Norway for a natural disaster. It's the thought there, I promised to get this message to our officials, and I trust it will be carried on to the world's leader. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u27	President. Thank you for your discussion. I would also like to thank for the findings of the Committee on Refugees and Refugees. I'd like to call attention to the refugees. There are about 200 people who have applied for asylum in Iceland who have taken a plane to Iceland. Many of them, and now the last one is sent back. I'd like to call Medi from Iran. He waited seven years in Norway and then tried to get his case settled in Iceland. Seven years without a chance to win. Seven years without being allowed to participate in society. And we're going to send him away without getting his story. I have known so many prostitutes who have since disappeared and no one is responsible for their fate. But isn't it so that we, the Icelandic government, are responsible for the fate of those we send off to the uncertainty? Here are now Syrian families who have arrived in Iceland by flight, and I would not be surprised if some of their families were to be sent back to the law we use all too often and are taught to Dublin. So I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister whether he is not willing to follow the same German example and to stop using these regulations suggest that the law not only be applied to the Syrians but also to Eritrea people, in which there is an emergency and there is an emergency in Afghanistan. We just don't see it, nobody's talking about it. We can't see the bodies of their children, and we still send these people back.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u28	President. This is an important step taken by the government and should be delighted that it is the real amount of money and the real steps it takes. The three - point plan is important and every joint is important, but as we have seen, it is also important to consider it, not as a task or a single intervention, but part of the future vision and the responsible development of this great and historic work of a nation. I have been very concerned with the factors that involve the ideas of society, both here and elsewhere in Europe, which are increasingly emphasised on nationalism, foreign fear, and prejudice. According to a study conducted by the Machine, about 20% of the people are opposed to accepting Syrian refugees over their heads and realizing that this is a real and urgent project designed to work against prejudice and alien hatred in Iceland. That's why you can ask the highest question. A minister of the special work that obviously needs to be done in cooperation with the school system, the media, sublingual hearings, public institutions, and professional life, to work in an orderly way against alien spirit and fear. Is there such a plan? Granted, there is great and urgent need for escape, but there is no greater threat to the scale and the wave of prejudice and ignorance that can be seen in many parts of Europe and even in Iceland. That project is bigger, and the problem is even more urgent. An association that teaches itself in the open - minded and human rights should be in charge of this discussion, preconceived against prejudice and alien hatred. I challenge the government to take such a step too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u29	A respectable president. I welcome the government's approval to propose at the General Assembly at $2 billion. I will be able to assist refugees in the next two years, and I support the whole mind of the approach of the Minister on the case. At the same time, I stress that the way Iceland and I support them will be very broad. The members of Parliament have been included in this discussion. We believe that the efforts of the United Nations Refugee Organization for Refugees in Syria, the Red Cross, and other Member States will be at the same time supported by a host of refugees at home. How important it is that we view our project as a long - term project that we continue to carry out! Let's do better than over the past few decades, regularly welcome refugee groups, build up, and maintain knowledge about the welcome and service of refugees throughout the community. It is important at this point to coordinate services to those who are given a permit in the wake of trust and those who come here as eaters so that, where possible, they will receive a comparable support for starting a new life. This work requires cooperation with local communities, and in this context it is important to remember that in recent years, rural society has become a source of great knowledge to receive people from different cultures. I think that is also the key to creating a general agreement on the project. Then we need to be careful of this welcome and make it possible for most of us to share in supporting the refugees who come here, whether by volunteer work or by the work that needs to be done in the countryside.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u30	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Prime Minister and his Minister for the announcement made on Saturday. The occasion is that in Syria there has been a terrible war longer than before World War I. For years, we have overlooked the horrors of the world's population and hundreds of thousands and millions of people gathered in refugee camps. Of course, in time the dam broke, and people began to flood the Mediterranean into Europe in search of shelter and in search of their children's future, as well. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir came in earlier, people want education and health care for their children. It is now the marvelous requirement, the fundamental requirement for all of us to foresee a future for our children. I am glad that after neglecting our obligation to receive refugees for far too long, let's be waking up to life, and thank you very much. Once again, prime minister is on the lead in this regard. Of course, when such a declaration is made, there are many questions that often arise. It says that this support should have three ways, and the 2 billion should be the one in the current year and then the next year. What I want to ask the highest. The prime minister is out to see whether this is no doubt new funding beyond what has been given previously into these lawsuits and whether it is not certain that the budget of this year is not primarily being used, in any case, in order to fit into the restitution party. [[The president calls.]] There's a considerable amount of money to be added. Is it not certain that these 2 billion are not what they are doing?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u31	Mr. President. I want to start like so many others, thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for this need for this discussion, and then, of course, expressed joy by the government's decision to provide 2 billion for refugees in the next two years. I hope this funding is a sign that we are waking up properly what our responsibility for fellowmen and sisters is about to do in the world, because as we all know and what we do. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir came in earlier, this problem is not new. The refugee problem in Syria is now a few years old, so it can be said, in fact, that it took us and Europe too long to recognize the need for help. Of course, it would have been possible to place more money in the seminary and the need, of course, infinite; but I rejoice at the beginning and hope that we take even greater steps than most clearly in the future. Like many others, I would like to help control the need for a completely complete policy in this long - term group of subjects. The help must not be up to the fact that we the common people see enough scary images of drowning children to do something about it. The problem remains, and help needs to be the same. There's a plan to be made. We need to agree on the standards and form a future Community covenant for the assistance of both refugees and refugees. Based on the changes we watch as a result of climate change in our environment, this is more likely to increase, not just because of war, but because of natural disasters. We do not know who will soon become refugees and where they will come from. Keep this in mind when we form a complete policy in the company of refugees and do not succumb to our social responsibilities toward our brothers and sisters when war or natural disasters rage.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u32	A respectable president. Words go. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir of Brársd Konstóts, who spoke of fugitives from Syria in a talk chair just below, shows black and white how people in that position are inside the chest. Hv. One senator said: "Everyone we said we wanted to go home, but the situation at home does not provide security, so people look to other nations for help. I am very happy that the Iceland government agreed on Saturday to spend 2 billion on refugees. We expect the first refugees to come to the country of December. After it became clear how bad the situation was, I am glad that the Icelandic government put far more power on this subject. I am glad that we are going to receive more refugees than was previously planned and that the money that the Icelandic government will contribute to these matters will be 2 billion. That's a very important contribution. Like the refugees, like what they're doing. Senator Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdóttir and Óttarr Proppé talked to them, say for themselves, they all want to stay at home, but often people have to flee their homes because of war, famine, natural disasters, or other circumstances that make it necessary to leave home and even leave their homeland. It is no longer to recall more than hundreds of years in the past that we Icelanders in this position, in the mid - 18th century, brought the Icelandic people to the brink of the bulging nation, to quote President Jón Sigurðsson. He said that it could hardly have been remembered that the people of Iceland had completely disappeared from the nations. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's been a while since we were in that terrible position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u33	A respectable president. In the short time I have to discuss this, I'd like to argue that we should take more people into the country. I'm sure I'd like to revise our use of the Order of Dublin and, in fact, consider it a fact among all those who look at these matters above their heads. We need more people in Iceland. One big problem in Iceland is that we're getting few and we're getting smaller with Icelandic citizens. We can be happy that people are moving to that land because otherwise people would be shrinking. We need more people. It is in our best interests to accept more people on one condition, to accept them warmly. Just as population growth in general is good if people have a chance in life. We would never encourage fewer children to live under the welfare system, nor would we consider cutting down in school because there are people here who are so troubled. It would be absurd, and that's ridiculous. We're supposed to try to receive these people so they want to be here, preferably. That should be our standard. Of course, people want to stay at home. There is something else that has been pointed out and is quite right, but the people who are running the war will not be able to come home soon, and we have to assume that these people will be here at some point. We're supposed to encourage them to stay here sometime if we can. We demand adjustment from other people, but we forget that adjustment is going in both directions. I know because I'm learning a foreign language, in particular Finnish, in Finland's excellent country that you can't learn a language that's foreign unless you're involved in the community, you have to be welcome into that community before you learn the language. It's going both ways. We are to welcome these people. We are to make a living in such a way that we must assume that it will be here as long as possible, not only for its interests but also for our own. These people want to stay home, they need help, and we're supposed to show them love, understanding, and support if they want to be identified in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u34	Mr. President. I want to thank you. Councilmen and the highest. Minister for excellent discussion. What we read is that it is very important that we look at the time we are at right now as an encouragement to continue changing the system, simplifying it, and, as here are many. Councilmen pointed out, taking into account not only the refugees but the inmates and the facilities that live there. It is important that we get prompt treatment so that the solution will take more time than it is currently taking. It is important that we take a discussion on the Dublin Protocol, which makes it important that we not take a materialistic position in the affairs of the trustees, and it is important that we set long - term goals. I can agree with them. Of course, members of the council here have said that no one wants to flee from their homes and those who flee home. But we also have to face what has been said here that it may not be much like that in the near future for many of the refugees, so it is important that they are well prepared either here or anywhere else in the world. I've also said that I think Iceland and I can welcome more people, and I just feel the attitude of people on the land that they are very willing to do their part. If the government, government opposition, and the people of the country and rural governments are united together, we should be able to use the funds that have now been decided to defend these matters in order to do much better in these matters. I'd like to say in the end that we, as governments here, are very willing to cooperate with the government on these matters and to reiterate what I said in the beginning that to make the best decision and to avoid the danger that here is growing racialism, fear of foreigners, and others, it is important that we politicians make the best of peace. I want to end my case by saying that we are ready for such cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u35	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the good talk and the invitation. A advocate of cooperation with the government of this suit. I agree that it's important that we work together on this, control and government, institutions, rural areas, and society. A few comments were made here, asking questions. I'm going to try to go over it the way I do my time. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson pointed to the importance of quick treatment and the absence of bottle necks by the accused of foreigners. I agree with this, and the government is very aware of the importance of hurrying these matters very quickly, and it is therefore assumed that a significant increase in money is being made to deal with this situation, since there is a great deal and a great deal of importance to get out of its solution as soon as possible. Not everyone will get a positive answer, but it is not to be forgotten, for this includes those who actually have the right to receive the status of a fugitive can get the best help in Iceland. Thank you. Konráðsdóttir Our experience in meeting with refugees in Lebanon and elsewhere, and accepting the emphasis she spoke for, the importance of making the people there more satisfying and giving them hope. There are very different circumstances, from what I understand, between refugee camps and Lebanon, when the situation is the worst, and it is revealed in the government's plan to first emphasize the need to improve the situation there. Hv. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir asked if there were no new funding to discuss what was involved in the 2 billion people. That's right. This involves, not what has been set up before, but a clean addition. Unfortunately, I don't have time to review all of this. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u36	A respectable president. The bill we're discussing, on the change in Iceland's development partnership, is what I understand best about moving an independent agency under the Ministry. Secretary of state into the Ministry of State. - Is there a minister in the house? Yeah. Great. This is a special operation for me, and I'm wondering if it's the highest level. Secretary of State understands the importance of the Agency's operating outside the Ministry, not inside it. That's the end of the line. Minister of foreign affairs also to replace a special committee, a development committee. It shall include a group of five members of the Parliament who shall be elected by the General, another five agents to be appointed in consultation with an Icelandic civil agency, two representatives from the university community, and two others in consultation with the labour market. Now I have to ask why these are five political agents. Why not ten, why not six? What are some of the ideas involved? To me, it just sounds like a parapolitic committee, a mixed committee that's supposed to play a political foreign role and hear directly under the State Department of State. To convert an institution into a committee is to uphold the political neutrality of the Agency, i.e. She's getting a stipulated role. Committees with five members of the board will always be in part political nature. Maybe it's just my naive innocence that's going to shine here, but I thought the purpose of institutions was to prevent decisions about important issues being taken out of the category of catechismic lines, such as deciding what children should learn or what developing teamwork should be. For example, I mention a research agency. How'd it feel? Foreign Minister if we had a research center where the publication of the material depended on the current political streamline, where five members of the press would sit, some from the labour market, and some from the university community, and all of these people should decide which of the next study books would be? Some things just shouldn't be heard directly under a minister. It takes people who have educated themselves in making study tools to care for what is to be published and what is appropriate for them to publish. Hv. People of the press have much to list, but this does not mean that they should be on committees that are to be used for study material. It is vital that we scatter power. We do not want study data created by a declared political objective. The same is true of developing cooperation in my opinion. The European Development Agency for Iceland is an institution run by experts in its field. Developmental cooperation is not a political element, i.e. it is not a class of politicals, it is academics, and it is not easy to perform such cooperation. I don't think I have any particular knowledge of evolutionary cooperation or knowledge, any more than making study data, and I know from my short Congress experience that if I should be on some committee that should be involved in international development research policies it wouldn't be within my expertise. The highest. Secretary of State tells me how many hours a year are behind us in the activities of the European Development Agency? How do you know what to do? My fellow councilmen have time to care for this in view of their present pressures? The best I understand, the best. Of course, a minister is welcome to correct me, a job in the European Development Agency for a full-time job. Will these levels and the work they've got go right into the Ministry of State? How's the top? Minister to ensure that these status values will provide a similar amount of progress in developing cohesion for hours and results as seen by the current agency? Won't this just lead to a relative decrease in efficiency because the head of the State Department will always have to do what's in the Ministry's dough, not just developing cooperation? It is important that Iceland's Development Agency maintain its independence. As an institution, it can send reviews to the General for a prime report proposed by both members of the Parliament and its advisers on developing cooperation. As an institution, it can produce more thorough statements than if it becomes a parapolitic committee under a foreign minister. What if the Board of Education involved a conflict of interest when sending in reviews on the issues of school and research because the same people at the Ministry of Education who worked on the bill are members of the Committee? You see, it's about the distribution of power. The European Development Agency for Iceland has been successful in all the reports that appear to be important and requiring work on behalf of Iceland in developing cooperation. V.E.G. A minister mentioned last week that we were a small nation, if I recall correctly, and that we needed to understand that it was important for each of us to have many irons in the fire. That's why I want to ask the highest. Minister again whether there was a problem with maning these activities of the Agency and doing the work she has done. Is not the existence of the Agency merely a professional for people who have expertise in developing cooperation and who want to make this their bread to live? I mean, don't you think we're going to have a job opportunity in Iceland for college people who have expertise that otherwise wouldn't be able to use here? In my opinion, the highest. Ministers to promote avatar flight by suggesting that this institution be put down with special jobs that people have special education to do. In the bill at the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is not directly expected, and I believe that the political value of any particular committee would be complete. The bill suggests temporary consultation by experts. I put a question mark on it because it must be more expensive than having the same experts working at work who would certainly be qualified to make it full - time. Having people on a temporary job makes them more secure for them, so they take more work for themselves. Then there is the danger of Iceland's work on developing cohesion becoming more brittle when politicians are allowed to hire more than highly educated people in this field. A respectable president. I'm totally against this bill going through. This is like trying to make a research agency a research board where politicians get to control which book students are allowed to read. The role of politicians is to lay the big lines, divide capitals from our joint funds, make decisions, and create laws. Developing cooperation is a matter of developing cooperation. It is about being in a special speech session, making special assessments, research on what has been done, and what can be done better. It's a professional job. The highest will. The Minister of Foreign Affairs is given to some special development committee to me this in itself would be the best case as long as it would be done concomitantly with the development network of Iceland. It is not to see that this institution is expensive or that someone is saving it is laying it down. This is primarily a matter of distribution to the European Development Agency. I am amazed at how this matter has been presented under the guidance of the highest degree. Secretary of state. He spoke as if it would just go through the same, no matter what. This is a description of the authority in the country. It is as if what is said, which line of reasoning, whether one appeals to conscience, statistics, or any creation, does not seem to matter. It's not moving. This is a clear example of how political bitch in Iceland is engaged in constant conflict. This development network is primarily a matter of power and control. This is very clear in reasoning the highest. Secretary of State for the reason he wants to transfer the Agency to the Ministry is that it has a better management of the situation in Iceland's development team. There's subjugated independence, undermine the distribution of power, and reduce the number of independent sources that can monitor both the legislators and the Commission in a commercial way. This bond of authority is I against, and I will speak against it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u37	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir is the poorest member of the Council. I am not reminded that this matter was held in the last winter when she stayed here for a short time as a deputy. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator would not have listened to the discussion that took place last year. Indeed, she did not sit on the Foreign Affairs Committee, for this matter was discussed very extensively. But, hey. A senator finds exactly the same conclusion as most of those who have considered this matter; he finds no material basis for any human attack on this change. There is no saving of this change. This is likely to reduce the collection and development of knowledge of the Ministry. Like what? A senator gave strong evidence of this need for power rather than for the distribution of power. In the past, we discussed the affairs of foreigners who are seeking refuge in Iceland and refugees. It went like a red thread all through the discussion that members, both of the board and of the upper hand, want to work hard to get solidarity on the subject. I think that almost everyone who's been in charge of this matter now two consecutive council members have strongly opposed it. In this particular case, we have noted that there is a special assessment of development cooperation and its arrangement by the DEC Committee, of the OECD development committee, and the only thing anyone asks is to wait for that conclusion. Let's wait for the match, see what comes out of the investigation on the part of people who have come to know. I'm asking why. A senator: Is it not the best way to do so, perhaps the only one to get along?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u38	I just agree completely with what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for us should wait for respect from this committee, especially since this is supposed to be some kind of equal handling. Similarly, the council needs to be a little solution to this matter. But this does not happen without the very best. Secretary of state is involved. People are being asked to wait, and if you can wait, you too can reach a different conclusion. V.E.G. Secretary of state. If the problem is a lack of communication between the Development Agency and the Ministry, it may be possible to improve in some way other than putting down an established agency. The Agency seems to be doing a good job, and that's all. I have a bad sense of being trying to push the matter through. I don't quite understand why they're doing it. There seems to be something more involved. I don't understand, and the bill itself doesn't make sense. Besides, it might be possible to consider having a developing co-worker committee, which is a consultant for this institution or something like that. But if it is known that the results of an peer will appear in the following months if not weeks, it is very normal to wait for this to occur in my opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u39	Mr. President. Hv. A senator said that members of Congress must be therapeutic, especially to the highest degree. A minister would have to be, too. I'm sure it would contribute to the outcome of this case, if ever. A minister would argue for some of the claims that were to be taken into account by him. I'm going to make a move. paritaprevir The Ásta of Guðrún Helgadóttir has apparently taken that message from the highest degree. Ministers that it is a biplicating matter, a lack of communication, that it is an overlap. Well, I'm sure it was all over, then. A senator, a member of the Department of Foreign Affairs last year, over these exact aspects to the Agency and also to the State Department. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs was able to give us an example of this. There was not one example, none of these. On the contrary, it is specifically stated in the DEC report that there was good, smooth and smooth communication between the Ministry and the Agency. Like what? A senator says that there is something else behind it. [[The president calls.]] In any case, it can be called a whim. [[The president calls.]] We can even say that here we can see how the executive authority has taken over the council. [[The president calls.]] Almost no senator has given support. They'll still be run through here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for those words and the information he brings here. It also shows how difficult it is to obtain information on a particular subject. For me, it's mainly about the distribution and access to information, and it's not helping if a committee meeting is closed. I don't know what happened at this committee meeting. I could probably ask someone, but I wasn't a senator at the time when the matter was discussed on a foreign matter committee. Here we see very clear examples of the balance of power that takes place in Iceland and how to drive a case over no matter what the purpose is. I think it's very strange, I can't say anything else, and thank you. A senator for this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u41	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Before the talk, Ásta the Guðrún Helgadóttir. I have to agree with her, both with her and with what. paritaprevir Össur's Aphrodin Skarphéðinsson, who spoke before me, was totally missing why. Minister is offering this bill. What struck me is that there are no examples, the highest. A minister gives no examples to support the need for the bill. I have to say for myself that I find this very strange, because this has been raised many times in this discussion, to the highest. A minister should not have answered that question and pointed out the examples. I think it would help a lot if he brought them. So we are not going to be able to go into the blanks or turn through the bill all the time, looking for examples that cannot be found there. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, because she is now arriving fresh, as it were, that this discussion for the winter, whether she was somewhere in the discussion, was there any support to this bill. Well, we've talked about it quite a lot here, but we feel it. A senator somewhere for support of the matter, but from the highest level. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u42	A respectable president. Thank you for the question. I watched this bill at the last council when I was here for a week, and it was discussed. After keeping up with the discussions then and the discussion now, there seems to be no reasonable evidence unless they are under pressure. That seems to be the only reason, the only sound argument, or something that can be understood. This doesn't seem like a practicality argument. It just seems to be the highest political opinion. Foreign Minister that a development committee is a political committee, not an independent institution, which, for example, can criticize itself. That seems to be the main thing in the matter of the highest order. Secretary of state. I'm sorry, but I have to disagree completely, in case the argument should call. I find that the case is very irreverent, both now and last. I read through this bill, and I don't find the economy argument convincing in the light of the discussion that has taken place here and especially since the special DA's report is about to produce the next loss. In addition to this, development as a team has been successful in most well-established measures so far. So I don't get it, and it seems like it's hard to get answers beyond what the report says, so I don't know any better. I think it's a power compression rather than a power distribution, which I just object to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I find this interesting, as the senator mentioned, that developing cooperation should be on a political committee rather than on its own. I'd like to ask the senator, " Does this seem to be the case - i.e. Developmental cooperation, because of helping some of the world's poorest countries, helping them build up and help them - to promote this in such a stipulation here at home, where the Ministry can possibly have an even greater impact on this and even select political issues for the money's arrangements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u44	A respectable president. I appreciate that question. Whether or not to be a political institution is the key to the matter. I don't think so, any more than a scholarship agency should be political. It's not a question of red or blue, it's a question of how to help people. It's a matter of education in this. I'm afraid we're driving highly educated people away simply because we're pushing all our jobs together for one job. It's no good. Here, too, we are taking away certain forms of authority that I find very important. I think it's very important for this institution to maintain a class of political roles, I think it's really necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u45	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's talk and has some questions that concern exactly the purpose of this decomposition on the Agency. Now that this government has saved - in what? Yes, in developing cooperation, there is quite a challenge. No one from the board has been particularly protective of her. Foreign Minister has not been willing to fight enough for that party. We have also seen that the government has, with keen attention, cut down in the county councils of the Icelandic state, which is totally normal to perform in accordance with other cuts, but there was an additional cut-off between discussions in the budget for 2015 rather than 2014, although I cannot promise it. Thus, the treatment of developing cooperation is the treatment of administrative matters, and a new program is being introduced by the chairman of a financial committee, especially avoiding and talking about government employees as some sort of problem for the Icelandic state. That is why I ask: Are there really some reason why we here in this room, who have now tried to fight for development cooperation and administration in Iceland, which we all have and who are supposed to ensure our common interests, should believe that this is done out of some particular interest in developing cooperation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u46	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer and the question. It seems, somehow, that there's more control here on a certain level. I feel like I see an old Iceland shining through where a power compression seems to be the theme that this government wants to sing. It's not really about developing cooperation, it's about the purpose of institutions, what the purpose of committees, when things are supposed to be political, and when things are supposed to be Catholic, at least not political. That's what this is all about. In the old Iceland, where we only have one boss who's supposed to be in charge, it's extremely bad to distribute power, especially when some institution can disagree with the highest level. Secretary of state on some sort. It's obviously very uncomfortable for his cause, I'd say. But it is essential that governments and governments have such institutions in order to maintain the policies established by the governments and the council. It's just a matter of maintenance, and no one else will fund this kind of money, but we do, because it's just part of the democratic community to let people to the table that's part outside the council and yet somehow also in there. I mean, there's a lot to say about the institution arrangement, but I think it's better than old Iceland, where one is the boss, and you have to work with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u47	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ásta the Guðrún - given daughter of Helgadóttir for the answer. She's here talking about old Iceland and power compression. Whether there are lawsuits in the council or in specific institutions is different. We have recently discussed the development of the council, and it was pointed to in various ways. There are countries that have vanished from special institutions, have had a bit cold feet to that, that this is not necessarily the right way. I wondered, because the evidence is that evolution is affecting so many surfaces, and that is why it needs to be in the Ministry of State: Is it unique in its development that it has affected different aspects in human society? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u48	A respectable president. Thank you for the question. Developing cooperation is not a simple matter. I remember that when I was working at the European Parliament, there was particularly a development partnership at one of the committee meetings. There were conflicting opinions on the effectiveness of evolutionary cooperation, its dependence, and its implementation. There are natural variations about that. In any case, most there agreed that it was not a class of catechism in the sense that the ultimate proposal was made. Secretary of State is assuming. If we're going to do this well, I think this has to be a special job. It doesn't seem to me to be expected in the highest bill. Minister. So there are question marks to that as well as many other factors in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u49	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a bill to legalize the legislation on the international development team in Iceland and the United States. (organization). This bill suggests a fundamental change in the development of Iceland's cooperation by bringing the activities of Iceland's Development Group into the Ministry of State and putting down the Agency. It's a little interesting that this is the First Congress case. The minister of foreign affairs offers, and this leads to the conclusion that he feels that the matter is very important, since it needs to be first of all. However, as mentioned earlier, this bill was also submitted at the last assembly and met with considerable opposition in the debate here at the council. Perhaps not that surprise. It is obvious, when reports on developing cooperation in Iceland and the development of the European Development Agency are read, that the function of the Development Agency is good; it works well and, as it happens, is effective. The Agency has not exceeded the budget it has been given, it stays within the budget, and is certainly doing the vital work assigned to it, i.e. improving the standard of living in the poorest countries in the world. The current law on international development is, like the highest. During the past few weeks, since 2008, a minister of the law stated that there was a significant change in the development of Iceland's development and overall policy. In 2013 a special focus on the construction of Iceland's international development team was taken on the development committee of OECD, DEC, in 2013. In fact, in comments printed by the bill, it says that the findings of the EEA's development team are based on a solid and professional basis. By permission of the highest power. Mr. President, I would like to read what is stated in comments with the bill: The report was positive, and it showed that the development of Iceland's team is based on a solid and professional basis. It's in a copy of the bill. However, it also points out that there are some points to be made that might be done better or otherwise. In fact, as noted here in the discussion, it is estimated that by the immediate next year, the conclusions are to be drawn from the peer review of the ADC to which it will be carried out, I suppose, more details as to what might be done. This point was highlighted here in the Senate Hall last week but in the language of the highest. A minister reported that during the reimbursement of this bill, it was not considered to wait for this peer review of the DOC. I just don't understand why it's the highest. A minister does not want to wait for the conclusion, asking: What is the purpose of altering the system just before that conclusion is realized? Is it just hope that you'll wonder if it's the highest? Even a minister is afraid that the result will simply be too positive about the prevailing arrangement, so would it be better to have changed before the conclusion comes? So, of course, when we discuss the development cooperation process, there has been no increase in contributions to development cooperation in the government in the past. During the last term, an ambitious development team was adopted by all the senators except one, but that plan was canceled and other and less ambitious plans were adopted last year. But not even that new release plan but, for the cost of development will be according to the budget for 2016 only 0.21% for the next year, which is the same as this year, instead of the first provision to increase there only, not as much as it had been determined, but only. Iceland, therefore, is far from achieving the UN target of 0.7% of GDP. V.E.G. President. In the U.S. Marshal's report. Foreign Minister from May last, on the organization of developing cooperation, requested several years ago. Generals, reports that the findings of DiaC do not indicate that the quality of the development sector is determined by whether it will be carried out in a special agency or in the Ministry. In fact, DiaC points out that success may be very variable among countries with a somewhat similar structure; yet, what is known to be a clear responsibility, professionalness and good coordination is crucial to the fact that any structure can work and result in success. You must therefore ask, " Can it be demonstrated that the change in putting down the development community organization and moving her project into the Ministry of State or, at least, the odds against it would be likely to improve the quality of Icelandic development teamwork? ' V.E.G. A minister will be advised that this is to increase practicality and achieve a synergistic effect; however, there is no such thing as double action or something that could actually be done better. So I cannot see that it would be, and I wondered, " Is this really going to be so? ' DAC reports that there is a clear distinction between the work of the Ministry and the development of the European Commission and that the success of the work has been achieved by having these partners work together and that their cooperation is good. That's what it says in a report of the highest order. Minister of his own. Surely, then, the big question in this matter must be: Why change what works well? There's still a few options there. Comments with the bill that discuss the goals of the changes made, says on page 20. Six, with permission of the highest power. President: In turn into the Ministry's work, all contact with foreign countries and developing institutions is being made in harmony and consistent with Iceland's foreign policy. However, according to the results of the latest DAC peer review, which was carried out in 2012◯2014, there may be marked changes in the link between development cooperation and other foreign organisations, since the core of the development of poverty has continued to be a growing number of countries that have strengthened the connection between foreign trades, foreign policy and development partnerships and many of them have introduced development cooperation into the State Department's work in a formal way. In considering this, it is important to keep in mind that in Article 3. the bill we're discussing here is also expected to appoint a representative of the Development Committee and that five of these representatives will be members of the General Assembly and elected by the General Assembly. I think it's time to stop and wonder what development teaming is like. Is this where they're putting her on political uniforms? It is stated in subheadings with the bill, beginning last year, that both the Allied Union of Iceland and the Social Sciences of Iceland pay a great deal of concern that political or diplomatic emphasis is being mixed together and development cooperation, and that the contribution of developing countries will be guided by their own interests rather than by the interests of the poor countries that are the receivers. I find it extremely important that we, as one of the richest nations, think about this. That was shown in the discussions here last week, okay? paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's wealth pointed out that some decades ago, development aid, or development teamwork, was more important than not in recent years. I sure hope we're not going back there. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson also pointed out that there is nothing unusual about the fact that nations are assigned to a field where they have special knowledge and that they mention a geologic project and fishing. I completely agree with that. It is no wonder that we do our part in material things where we have knowledge and experience, but it is quite different from providing assistance on our terms or on the basis of those who accept assistance. In this context, it is also important to put money on projects that may not be so exciting to Icelandic people as digging wells or creating hygienic facilities, but there are also some very important factors. V.E.G. President. I see my time is running away. So I just want to say that I haven't seen any evidence in my life why these changes should be presented in Iceland's Development Research Institute and simply suggested that this bill be put aside. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u50	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I've got a lot of details on this case that are bothering me like a dog. A senator. One of them is that I don't fully understand the policy of men when they decide to take one profession into the Ministry. It is similar to the fact that in the prosecuting department, people might think of achieving a slightly better control over tourism and taking a travel agency just below the Ministry; and the rest and those institutions could mention in this regard. This is the same thing that is going on here, but there is still no question about how it will help the group to be professional. I wanted to ask you what. A senator will see if she has come across the matter, if she has found it, that men are arguing the matter from these professional viewpoints. Development teamwork, this is special. It is a huge turn to enter a state of service, a region in which we can have a complex community structure, and a variety of information that we give to help. Thus, they need to be careful when entering large - scale development communities. This is an enormous amount of science and a lot of studios behind it. So you wonder if this cannot affect our professional approach. As far as I can see, if you scan this DiaC report, which was done on Iceland and Icelandic development teamwork at the time we walked in, but that the work of the Development Agency is commended specifically by professional views and that the Agency has gathered a great deal of knowledge and importance in its activities throughout the ages. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, I suspect it's all about saving and there's little business to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the question. I have also wondered about this much, the arguments, the lack of the delinquency that I would have thought would be so natural that it would be so reasonable to demonstrate what might be done better. But the more I read and the more I learn about it, the more I find more information about the arrangement as it is now working. That's why, so I'm just saying it again, I don't understand why we're not going to wait for DAC's peer review. Of course, there's always something better to go, it would be better now, but going around the system 15 minutes before peer criticism comes, I don't understand. However, I wondered what might be behind taking one agency into the Ministry. Despite the vast numbers of us believe that we do not give enough money to develop teamwork, I think everyone agrees that it is the future mouse to put more money on it. Then I feel quite right to consider that already more than 6 billion are going to be developed in Iceland and will be more in the future: Is it interesting for one agency to receive such money into his department and to determine for themselves what sort of arrangements they will be made? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I don't know, but I think we should think about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u52	A respectable president. I believe this is more financial than professional. It has been said in this discussion that there is a measure of insolence. Minister to use the DaAC report, which was done on Icelandic development teaming when we walked in there, as some support from this. It contains an awe - inspiring expression of Icelandic evolutionary cooperation. One of the things that brought my attention to all of this was that the Agency's distribution of power from headquarters and to exits in areas where development of the community is operating makes the Agency more flexible to respond to the needs of the local people. That's what this is all about. It is not our whim that is to be filled with the needs of the local people. You wonder, then, when people are about to start poring all of this into the work of the State Department, all this professional work and professional knowledge that has gathered in a developing research agency, what happens to this complement when humans have a huge government over this. There's something so vague about this. As far as I'm concerned, I don't like the professional argument. I hope the minister will join us at the end of the discussion and try to tell us a little more about the professional views involved because they are not here, they are not revealed at all. All we have in our hands from politicians and from his party members are the declarations of the chairman of the budget board when it came out of the employment of the Advisor Committee, that expenses should be summed up for development. A respectable president. You can't come down here and put a table for us prepared professional reasoning when it's clear that the expedition was on its way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u53	V.E.G. President. I read it somewhere, though I did not find it in my papers, it is important that a strong political outsider exists when it comes to developing cooperation. I could see that it was important for someone with political leadership to speak to it and that he would not go to the seminar. I didn't understand that it was his idea to decide how that money would be spent. I think that's exactly what you're talking about. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir said that it has been important for those serving in the field to respond and to evaluate the importance and importance of the work to be done in, that it is not done in some centrally remote agency in another continent's office. I feel as if they're taking advantage of the fact that political front needs to be in front of a group of lawsuits as evidence of letting a party bitch determine how the money is controlled. I don't think it should have been the purpose of developing cooperation. On the contrary, it was to be the object of the political prerogative to secure the money and leave it to the local professionals to plan it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u54	Mr. President. The plowing down in a talk. The senator was about to be put aside, and for the time being, he forgot about it. Of course, there is a time sign that none of those who have conducted this discourses have been able to see anything positive that, in effect, supports the progress of the case. Yet, there is one honest exception, and there is one who sits in a gray - mined game directly behind me, the highest. President of Congress, but we all know that he can't wait to see anything he doesn't want to help and nurse. Hv. The senator showed that those who have conducted talks on this subject have studied it. Hv. A senator traced some comments from the report that were just the most intense comments I have had, a comment that draws itself to the conclusion that the Agency does not carry out its work, it is a challenge, it is even having some form of a different policy than the Ministry of State, that is jagged and biplicing. Hv. A senator who has read at home has studied the last peer review of the DEC Committee, the Development Committee of the OECD, which leads to a very different conclusion than the one with all kinds of themes and innuendos placed on the table with a speech and a paper project at the highest level. Minister. I think it matters because, no matter how this case goes, I don't want it to end with the fact that if the Agency is laid down, it's the requirement that it be necessary because the Agency that has been very successful has somehow gone off the course. That's what I'm most struggling with in the government's lawsuit. I think we should listen to experts. Hv. A senator read from the review of the university's social science field, or I took it so that it was quoting from it, and its conclusion was totally conclusive, it's inconceivable to submerge the Agency. [[The president calls.]] Social science suggests that all development partnerships will be exported from the Ministry to the Agency. Don't pay attention to it, boy. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u55	V.E.G. President. It's very special when you start to study this subject, starting with reading the bill itself and the comments it makes from seeing there, just like that. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson said, all sorts of excerpts as you try to dig deeper, read reports, including the report at the highest level. The minister appointed the council last spring, nothing but exorbitant. There are no examples and no arguments, and if the background text is just checked, it can be read the opposite of what is suggested by this bill. I think it's a bit strange, because I can't see that the bill project is at best filled with some sort of half-truth if you can even talk so positive about what you're saying. In what I've been looking for information on the development community, I find how anything but positive about it. In terms of the question, yes, I would have thought it should be listened to the professionals, especially if they presented some evidence in support of their case, would go in the other direction, and would take this more or more out of the Ministry and put it under a special development agency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u56	Mr. President. Like what? A senator noted that there is not necessarily one specific strategy for developing cooperation that has some advantage over others. These issues have developed differently in different countries. In fact, the conclusion that has come from research on which arrangements are best used is that with a strong political advantage, the greatest results are seen from the arrangement. It's not like Iceland is on its own. The following arrangements are very similar to those found in the majority of the countries that are in the FAC group. This information is from a report referred to in one of the applications applied to us last year. Iceland is one of such countries as Czech Republic, France, Germany, Japan, Luxembourg, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, and the United States. The last kingdom to be added to this group was Italy, which deliberately changed its system and adopted the arrangement as the highest. Secretary says it's not convenient in Iceland. In fact, it's the highest word. Ministers such as this is some out - of - date arrangement, although this is what is being done in a number of states, and not just that, some countries have adopted it. Then I come to a point I want to correct from my speech from the moment I spoke to him. A senator the other day. She asked me about the business of foreign business and export shops. So I told her, and I still believe that it's not what's on top of it. However, as a minister, I went home, studied more carefully, and found that in some countries, evolution has been developed to do so, e.g. In Holland. What is one of the countries that we were told had been changing their arrangements? [[The president calls.]] It's Holland. It is absolutely clear what the Dutch are doing but the highest. Minister has said that he does not want to follow that pattern.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u57	V.E.G. President. You see, I think with the discussion here, we are gradually moving closer to our core and discussing how we definitely don't want to see the development of the work. It is a question of the clear political leadership, what it means, and how to cooperate with it. I want to work with it in a way that allows some government advocates to fit in and to think that we Icelanders are supposed to contribute more money, increase the proportion of our land production, in developing cooperation, and thus contribute to the poorer countries in the world. I, however, totally agree that the clear political outside of Iceland is not meant to win Iceland's interests in some way through international development. It's just the wrong scene, and I have to admit that I haven't studied a special example of the way the Dutch have gone, but I will, in turn, follow this discussion, just to get better into work at any time. Foreign Affairs. I just want to repeat and state clearly that I find it a very hard way to plan to go on using evolutionary cooperation as some kind of jumpstick for Icelandic interests. [[The president calls.]] We should always look at the interests of the recipient of our assistance, not to what would be best for us in that particular matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u58	Mr. President. I'd like to add some words to this matter. I've been watching the discussion, especially here today. I couldn't be with her all in the previous part of the meeting on this matter, but I'm interested in this class and I've been looking for him for a long time, so to speak, and I'm trying to see how Iceland and I do things in that regard. In fact, I've been rather downtrodden for a long time when it comes to mountains, e.g. in international or Norwegian comparison, about our performance in this field. She's been in a lot of trouble. It took us Icelanders a long time to assume that we were basically receivers and should be on this field until we started to build a little help on our part, leaving the words among the richest nations of the world. But it has been quite tragic to come into this situation, such as in other parts of the North and in the most prosperous countries we would like to compare ourselves with on a good day, as in other parts of the North and Western European countries, or developed countries such as Canada, New Zealand, Australia, etc. I'm just gonna find out later, because I feel it's hanging out. It is not in itself an isolated matter to discuss some of these internal organizations in the ministry and in the institution. I think that gives us every reason to discuss the entire group's situation, including... Because it reflects a certain emphasis or a certain setting of priorities, I think it should be put at the root of it. Minister here, two consecutive members of Congress. I really lack the reasons for that, I have to say exactly as it is, to be in this when it is clear that the matter is controversial and is not at odds with it. To be honest, I thought the best. A minister had much more to do and much more to do. The most intimate thing I feel is that a minister used them more of his efforts to fight for increased funding for developing cooperation so that he could at least deliver his own, I'll let me say, an ambitious plan to rub this, for example, next year up to 0.23% of GDP. That was all that was to be done. It's a long way to the point where we can get halfway up to 0.7%. I reviewed here and began looking at the budget and the text for this, and unfortunately, this is to be the case between years and years as a percentage of GDP in the third year. This government seems trapped in not raising anything. And it must have been rather sad, this is far from the plan that men took up here with some ambition, whether it was in 2012, I guess it was the person who believed that it was better for years to be added to this seminary, and Iceland could try to improve the quality of it. It was then revised and cut very low, but it would slightly increase as a proportion of gross domestic product at the highest level. A minister of a plan he had here last year, but now he has the budget bill and the performance is to be replaced. The 0.02 percentage of GDP is becoming substantial. We see that the domestic product in the first half of this year is one hundred and sixty billion, if I remember correctly, so it probably works out well over 2,100 billion this year. With 3% interest next year, we may see that this is approaching 500 million. At a rate of 0.02 percentage points of gross domestic product, it now reflects the funds that are missing just so that the budget meets the last published program that seemed somewhat ambitious. Why are you doing this, top dog? Minister? I think it lacks a stronger argument. Here in the report, this great text on integration and what it is now is, but it is not enough for me because it really isn't trying to point out the fault and the problems that should be solved by this change, because you don't know them properly. I think I've followed this very carefully, both as a general and from the outside, often in the Foreign Affairs Committee, through a representative of the Commission of Development Grouping and by other means, traveling on roads that this institution has organized, and so forth. I just don't know that there was a special problem up there. I think that developing cohesion agency has just been a major focus for the last few years, that change was certainly right to reduce the number of cohesion countries, making them more and more limited money by having a stronger presence than in fewer countries. In general, all I've seen was that the Agency was well run, that is, of course, under the lead of a great professional who is internationally more respected in these matters, ends up with a long and successful career in international institutions in this area, so it is not now referred to. We're not playing some cunt with the director of the agency today and the results are pretty good. That's when you need strong reasoning to interfere with the organization that has given you all well. For example, let's take this integration argument, there may be two sides in that matter, Mr. President. Of course, our two - sided development work is now being carried out by the Development Organization and often be a challenge, a political choice. It is often no simple matter to take evolution into countries where government may be like this and such, and it must be tried to keep all politics and all suspicions away, as far as possible. We're generally that way, aren't we? that as long as the government allows the work to be done in peace, poor people should not pay the price, even if the government may be up and down. I don't know that, in itself, we have let politics specifically stop it, as long as they believe, there were legitimate conditions at hand for successful development cooperation. Of course, it can't be done in some places, unfortunately, and then people have to face it. As a result, I believe that there are great benefits in performing the two - side development work in a professional independent organisation. It is a certain distance from the foreign politics, which, on the other hand, is used as evidence that the development team has to be integrated. So it says on page 18. ............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... In addition to the government's voice speaking of international development cooperation, it is also possible to ensure that all contact with foreign countries and developing institutions are coordinated and in harmony with Iceland's foreign policy. What is implied? Haven't you? Has it been true that two languages were spoken about developing cooperation on the part of Iceland? And then the agency had one voice and the Ministry had another? It would be interesting to hear about what judgment signs or conflicts are being referred to with this strange text. I believe that there may be a very strong argument that the very indirect sense that this arrangement has its advantages, to have a elaborate two - side development team project in an independent field, which, of course, is not political, except in the extremely indirect sense that it is under political office or political minister and the function is required for its responsibility, but it is an independent agency that operates on the basis of a law of independence, has a government or advice committee, and to which it can be referred that exactly it does not get involved in other aspects of foreign policy matters. People have often discussed the better linking of evolutionary cooperation and trade and export interests. You often heard that reasoning over the years earlier, and it was thought that we should, in effect, try to make a little bit of money on the way, sell our products and productions, and place it on the market. That primitive thought was on the part of some of the world's international development teamed up here in the past. Now it is against the rules, and by all means human beings do not want to be suspicious of their failure to perform professional, professional, well-being, and there's some subjugation and something behind them. Don't you care about political foreign policy? Is it not good for two - sided development cooperation projects to be well separated from them? There is no doubt that we are not expected to achieve anything else along the way, to challenge our political boundaries, or to achieve our foreign policy as such in some way through evolutionary cooperation. The people, territories, countries that are to be used as well as possible by careful and professional practices are to assist them, and there is nothing else to blend in with. It is to be the sole purpose of helping those in need of survival and evolution. I believe in itself, a respectable president, that there may be strong reasons against this text altogether. It's not good enough for me or anything else I've heard here that would necessarily indicate that this is a reasonable change. Then you ask yourself, " Why do I do this? ' Has the highest. Is it not true that the minister of foreign affairs has something else to do? Is this a matter of priorities or ambition because the matter was met last year by opposition? It may not be that a minister has become stubborn and does not want to give in to the objections and criticisms of the council. Finally, I mention it is so painful for such a sensitive group if it cannot be handled fairly politically. Throughout history, people have always tried to stress it, including the rest of the world. by having a good transpolitic system in the management of this institution or thus connected it with the rest of politics. In the past, some asked: " Why be in control of this institution? If there were no ideas of cutting it off at any particular time, the evidence that might have continued to add all political parties to this activity and to try to have non - political peace about it. This is not helpful, in effect, in creating problems and disputes. You've mentioned that there may be a small-arm pause in this matter to agree to wait for the review I'm learning here on the basis of the OECD research Committee, and there's no worse reason than anyone else. I'd love to hear from the top. If the council after discussion on this, a minister would conclude that we stayed, it is a problem of the highest degree. Minister? Is that not just an excellent result? Maybe the highest. A minister would be so good to answer that before the end of the discussion, because then at least a person could look at the possibility of dealing with this situation and then settle it so perhaps that in the end of a nonsense argument, he would spend a considerable amount of time in that winter, which I feel is impossible to sort out as some big priority, if it could become the landing. Then there is no relief from any future organizational changes, but this would be only the time to grow. If there are any problems, some nuances, something that is going to be solved and explained, it would be good to get them out because it would be possible to consider if there were any other ways to solve the problem. If there's some lack of cooperation between the Agency and the Ministry I've not heard of, then there's a natural number of ways to make it better. The simplest approach is not merely putting down the Agency. It's a bit of a sleazy trick. Of course, it has been an example in history, as was the National Institutes of Nations in ancient times when they were not satisfied with its national interests, but it was a long way of putting the Agency down because they were unhappy with something about it or their work. [[The president calls.]] There are gaps, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his review, he knows the case, and he's been tracking it for quite a while. I'm like he's one big piece of question to me about the problem being solved. If anything is, I feel that all the evidence in this case suggests that we are going out of a perfectly good system, which is definitely supposed to be fixed on here and there, into complete uncertainty. Things are being grappled together that are not compatible. Evolution's Special Support, this is a subject, this is an incredibly sensitive group of subjects, and it is important that we keep our attention on the ways that help is being done into different communities, I'm not talking about community groups that are different from ours. There are professionals who have specialised themselves in that area, and therefore I have serious doubts that it should be combined with other operations of the State Ministry. I think something would have been heard if men had thought of, and I've taken the example of taking a travel agency into the Department of Professional Roads. The institutions are to play a role, and then they are being watched by the demands that they are doing what they are supposed to do. I think we're over here on a bit of ice cream and we're setting an example that I don't know where to end, i.e. If a minister comes to mind from his own whim, as it seems to be taking him into his office to enhance his accounts and reduce some expense, we are now at the top of the ice in the case of a professional government. I'd like a little perspective. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u60	Mr. President. Yes, I'm willing to discuss this aspect of the matter. You're absolutely right. A senator, of course, that this is a matter of the time most important to the government; how to visualize the structure of the administrative agency, what work is normal or inevitable, and what is better to have in independent institutions and to have something in harmony with it. I'm not sure it's going deep with the current highest level. Government. Is it the government's general policy to expand the Ministry and bring in a project from the institutions? Is that the course? Is that how this bill works? Or is it just hippos, depending on what's convenient for each time? I think it's better. It is not new that there are some discrepancies in this in our administration or management system. In the other century, I was in charge of two well - organized conferences at the same time, where one of the Ministry had long been run by the policy of having the Ministry as a small government but supporting its institutions and assigning them to projects, as they were large and powerful, the Roadmaker, Navigatory Institute, Mail and Phone, or whatever it was. The other side was the Department of Agriculture, where there were all kinds of tasks, practitioners, which would have been, of course, long ago, better off in some government agency, as it can be said today, with the Food Organization. True, here we have a phenomenon that is somewhat different in developing cooperation. There may be more factors to consider than just the organizational ones within the country, i.e. A job that is being done and what is best. There are, of course, all kinds of arrangements. I also show that the Icelandic Ministry of State is nothing like some of the agencies that have this sect in neighboring countries, have two, three ministers, including the independent ministers for developing cooperation and much bigger and more controversial than our Ministry of State. [[The president calls.]] I'm not sure that there is any translocation value to consider this in other countries as here has been used as evidence. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u61	A respectable president. Well, then, we haven't found the professional evidence. We have not found our policy, either, i.e. In what way to establish a case in the administration board. There is no direction there in progress, so that they do not follow the evidence in this. What, then, remains? Well, I guess that's what it says after people are trying to subsidize. It's just what they're doing here. There has been nothing else in this discussion, no evidence, not regarding the administrations or the professional element. So it remains. Then people have to come in here and say it's financial and they're taking the money. A respectable president. If we have a government that is controlled by what comes into man's mind to try to enhance the financial side of their schemes, we are in quite a lot of trouble. I think people should take this matter now and put it aside for a little while, and at least show us the respect, and the category of paint, to try to invent some good professional argument. I just don't think men can do it. I found it interesting to see in the report published by FAC when we entered the last term that is specifically referred to a development organization, and its activities are widely commended by professional views. One thing I also found interesting was that it specifically speaks of distribution of power, i.e. from the Mother Institute here on the continent to the foreign outlands, it has been particularly successful and has made it possible for humans to respond well to the needs of the local people who are working hard and safely. [[The president calls.]] I'm concerned that if you start to poring this into other ministry operations, you lose the work, the part of the operation that's especially being praised by theDC. [[The president calls.]] That's what worries me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u62	Mr. President. I did just that in my speech, and I could have done much if time had allowed. I don't know that there was a controversy or dissatisfaction with neither the activities and emphasis of the development network nor, in effect, the standards we've set for projects and such. The only thing unacceptable is how little money is put into this. But the priorities that have been developed and strengthened for the past few years - I say for my part, I'm quite satisfied with them, the emphasis on women and children, the environment, health and other things that have been growing in our focus. I just think it's absolutely accurate. Why, then, change? Of course, the development agency has helped, has been our profession, and has been modulating, and leading, in many ways, to develop these matters in our lives, to do so well in my opinion. Yeah, well, maybe it's some way that you look at the money, you look better, and you don't see as good how little this is in some big, big-ass turtle inside the Ministry, I don't know. The other would be even more devastating if they imagined that they could experiment with the accounting by moving it into the Ministry and controlling it there, for example. In terms of human development, because careful monitoring of what can be considered as a contribution to development is now being done. Of course, we mustn't cheat on it and start using people we say are performing evolutionary cooperation in a ministry to do something else. No, we would have to withdraw from what is thought to be a valid contribution for development. There are rules about that. [[The president calls.]] I can't believe they've thought about some kind of practice. But it would be to bite the head off the shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u63	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask has softened over the years as well as anywhere he sees a gap between humans, and he wants to build bridges. Hv. One member says: "If the situation is that there is some kind of non-communication between the Agency and the high Ministry, then you may be sitting down and trying to remedy it. This, however, is the key: There is no communication disorder. There are no nuances in the relations of the Bureau and the Ministry. This was what we covered thoroughly with the committee. This was what the OECD Development Committee covered thoroughly. All channels, communications routes, are unscrupulous. This is the result of an opinion on the link between the Agency and the Ministry. Nothing will ever change that. That's just the way it is. We have, in all this discussion, been trying to find some kind of reason for this change. Hv. A senator may remember that last year when something was going to the highest level. Ministers and him said that while he did not present his case in support of this case, it would be nothing more than slander about the Agency. That's when they said the highest. Minister that it was one example he would have, but that would be the case if he didn't want to discuss it publicly. The people were left with the feeling that something amazing had happened that would not be able to hold up a discussion at the Assembly Hall. This was reviewed by the committee. At last, when government officials had examined it, it was found that at one point the agency had been consulted as to how to express Iceland's stand on the American government's view of homosexuality. It turned out that there were never any wolves standing up about it. Evolution's Institute of Development believed that this should be done by one factor according to its knowledge of locality, the Ministry of the Union in another way. In the end, the viewpoint was expressed, not a problem. [[The president calls.]] So I ask. A senator: In the strength of his experience, what does he think will put the government in line with this change if we do not succeed, and even the minister himself, to find something that can be offered here? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u64	I'm in a lot of trouble trying to think of something like that, because I don't want to be men's things or people's opinions. But, of course, if it was. The senator wants to listen, as it were, to accept what has happened several times in the Ministry and get to know those institutions within, that there is often a slight tendency to gather threads into the hands of the Ministry and to promote such and to a certain extent that is totally understandable. Many authorities have had to take on savings and cuts, and perhaps they feel that they are somehow achieving their weapons by moving them into the Ministry of Fundament and Projects, and therefore entire institutions with a man and a mouse, to respond to these and to put on the weight of the pound. I could totally guess that those views had been found within the State Department wall, among the officials, etc., that this would further the Ministry in some way and all that. But why the highest. Ministers have their views, understanding is harder to understand. I just can't find anything to keep them water anymore. Hv. A member of a foreign - language committee has explained how this was done on the committee; all of them have gone to a grave, with no problems. But it is of interest in itself, when it comes to dealing with a shameful stand by governments in Uganda against homosexuals, that a developing research agency has had an idea of making such a decision in a way that the State Ministry of State has not. Then we can go a little further and ask ourselves: Is it not a very good example that the Agency, with the two - sided development teamwork, is a professional agency, is to be independent, so that the shape of foreign policy is just another matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u65	Mr. President. As responsible officers, we know that good officials are in the value of their weight in gold. There will be no proper minister unless he has ears that he is using to listen very carefully to the counsel of the officials. All of us who go hand in hand, it's best to consult there. Then there is another matter that applies to them. You have to weigh. Officials, like others, are weak, and at times they have a different interest than would normally be political ministers in the building of their Ministry. Of course it is that there is not any doubt in my mind, and I have never secreted it, that primarily there is the gathering of power in the Ministry and being taking in cables. That's understandable. There's a huge and growing amount of money and it's normal at least that's gonna shoot at that. Also valid support for the Ministry. On the one hand, it is evident that this also creates a wide range of possibilities for those who work in the budget for setting up and working for Iceland in a foreign country. There are a considerable number of people in these stations. This makes it possible for humans to have experience in foreign lands. On the other hand, I notice. Because if these workers become transportable, this means that they stay brief and the knowledge that is present, and that has been built up within this institution, they will be anointed thin. That is why Danir and the Norwegians, when they wanted to change, took the Agency and delivered it whole, kept it unchanged within the Ministry border, just to not overture the knowledge. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking why. A senator: Does he not believe that the transport duties will lead to the loss of professional knowledge? [[The president calls.]] Might need money, as I thought it would be. A minister here says in his history, to build up this knowledge through courses and re-education.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u66	Mr. President. Now we know who it is. A senator of his own, very well up there, mentions this point that is validated. I allow me to have serious doubts about how good it is - if that is one of the things one thinks to achieve, and if it is to be read from this strange text about the integration on page. 6 in a paper with the bill - that, in fact, the whole Ministry will be subject to, and you can jump into these projects on a cross-cutting basis, the translocation value to be changed; I don't talk about it if there's a large, wide-spector group of members of the Ministry can start doing these things. We've just been talking about it, and we've talked about some of the warm words that in a developing working agency, we've developed knowledge, stability, not a lot of employees, and many longtimes who have been programme managers or posted employees for years and decades even, have become valuable experiences, have wrestled with jobs elsewhere, may have been in Namibia or anywhere before they went to the next country. I think this is something that needs to go really well into the stitches and trust. A committee to do that. Is this perhaps some aspect of the thought, and could it account for the attention of the Ministry, that they find a little exciting to have this option and a chance to get involved? Maybe it is. What is the highest attitude? So, then, a minister? Does he find it wise to reduce the expertise and stability and construction of professional knowledge in the reliable core of employees who are experienced in carrying out these responsibilities? Is it not, then, that today is just a good time for the Bureau as it is?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u67	A respectable president. I'll admit, I'm not particularly involved. In fact, I feel that there are many things we have to make changes in our community. When adjustments are made, people also need to know and be sure that they are in order to get things going, do things that are better than they are already. I'm totally out of the way to see that it is, in this case. I have considered some of the factors that concern me most, and I'm going to go over them a little later. It's been a relatively short time since, with 2008's laws, we finally built a full frame of development here on the country. There was a total law on the case party, and it actually meant that the Agency was getting more flexible than before, and there were significant changes in the case group that have proved to be very effective. It has been suggested that this is just some minor shape change. So it's not at all, it's a denaturization of our evolutionary functions, and I think and I sincerely hope that the Foreign Affairs now carefully review this and make a decision, not since the Minister deserves one matter, as sometimes happens, you have a feeling, but on professional grounds. I hope the committee will also answer large questions that have been discussed in this discussion. Although members of the committee have not been industrialized and have not been attached to the discussion, I hope that the questions will be raised by our representatives on the State Department and that they will make sure that we get the answers to them. What I feel is that I've slid a bit off the case in a way that brings us to the core of the answer to the question why and why into the fact that there's no professional evidence, there's no evidence that this is our improving administration. All that remains is that men are getting financial support from the Ministry. It's the only thing left. I must say exactly as it is, most respectable president, that there is no good reason to change such an important and delicate class as strongly as it really is. When making a decision to enter a trade agency in the Ministry, they need to support it, other than their pursuit of funds. There is nothing more left in this matter than that, and that's a bad reason. Rather, we should sit down together like a dog. Senator J. Sigfússon said and asked the question basically: What is the problem we're going to solve with this? and rather try to approach that matter differently than that, because I have never seen a problem in taking a business center where great expertise has been built up and healing it with other activities that are very unrelated. Developing cooperation is not the same as any other group of cases. Developmental cooperation is a specialised profession requiring a great deal of expertise; it must certainly not depend on any whim or emotion at any time. It must be designed and planned because it has people with social groups different from those we know here. When men are taking development support around the world, they can often enter very vulnerable communities and exert a powerful influence on local community development. It cannot be based on the decisions made on emotion or anything like that, that must be done with the ultimate responsibility and knowledge of the consequences of human actions. We can't do this just because the minister thought of it and is defending it somehow because he feels he needs to set this matter up for some reason. It is not as if there is some political burden at the council behind the minister of the matter. He's on his own, we haven't heard from independents, colleagues, except one member of the State Department of State, and he said to us honestly: I don't understand why people are trying to put this through, I don't understand the reasons for this. It's the only man who's spoken in the company. This was the message from him, but still the Minister is trying to get it through here, and no doubt he's going to write it on the desk because they think he's worth one case. They may feel that this is not important, then, for humans to offer up, as it were, one development organization. For us who are speaking here, however, this is vital; developing cooperation is of utmost importance. It is part of the international community on a responsible basis that makes us what we are, a proud and strong nation. V.E.G. A minister has suggested that one thing and another were wrong, and when men peeled from it, it turns out that it was nothing, perhaps some one event like a dog. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphphénsson mentioned earlier, and because people don't have any professional reasons behind what they're doing, they're using people like this: There's something they did, but I can't tell you here. What the hell is that song? What kind of trade is that? It's an unprofessional reaction to the Minister, that's just the way it is. You have to be able to say exactly what you want to see happen with these changes, and that's not the answer here. A respectable president. There's two things in this that bothers me. First of all, I'm not the professional argument. Then I will come back on, as I did here earlier today, the report by the DAC, OECD development committee, written in 2012 about the United States. It was instigated that we were going in there formally. Over the course of this report, Iceland is more and less commended that despite having a small size, it would be well done and clear. What interests me most also in this review and in the report is how the Agency's flexibility is dealt with the needs of the local people. This is supported by the lack of domestic ideologies as a distribution which gives the Agency's institutions greater opportunities to respond to their local needs, and they have a flexibility to hear what the locals have to offer and cooperate with them in changing and improving their community. It's a modern thought, it's a modern process of working like this. But, no, from now on, we have to disappear because we need money inside the Ministry. A respectable president. The other thing that's been bothering me is that I also don't realize what the government is going through. There is a procedure to run a ministry, we've been developing in that direction, and the National Reexamination has called for it to be further developed in this way, i.e. that the Ministry is a supervisor, supervisor and follow-up, and then we have institutions that carry out the work. That arrangement has been well established, and no one will think of any other scheme to take to heart organizations. I have not heard of it, men may be promoting it, uniting organizations, or even moving projects from councils into agencies and uniting others, such as just recently at the Ministry of Education in a so-called High Education Institute, where men would directly bring an assignment out of the Ministry to provide further support and then follow up the Congress's will on certain matters. Then there are many opinions about what the institutions do and how they work, but there is a good sense in this setting because they are not scribbling decisionmaking, implementation, monitoring, and follow-up to one pot. We don't want to work that way, but that's what they're doing here. That's what people are going to do in this particular case, and that's what I can't figure out. I think we really need to hear from the foreman of this government what the line is about how government men are going to do it. Should it be directed, or should it be the authority scattered? Is it to be clear or intended to have the Ministry as a kind of stirr of different projects as well as to be observing and accomplishing themselves? This is what I don't quite understand in this whole expedition together. A respectable president. We walked to DAC during our last term. Now that we've been there for a few years, we've been doing developing cooperation in Iceland called equal food. What I don't understand, either, is a little bit sore on the part of the Minister. Why should this be run through now when it is anticipated that we are receiving such an assessment in the next year? So I agree with those who have spoken here, calling for a minister to wait at least for this to be done. In fact, it may be only good for us to get even good tips from that assessment. But, no, we're gonna run some basic changes through here just before it comes. What kind of work are these? I know how it works, I know it, I've got it all figured out. That's how we do in the forward party things, just the way we want, as we like to think, by our own heads. We don't have to listen to other people, we know how to do it best, and we know it best. We're the best in the world, -- There's a bit of a song. Clearly, people feel that they are the best people in the world, and they do not have to listen to members of the team that have spoken in this case or to any other professional institutions in the world. A respectable president. I feel that this whole thing is all happening to me with such remarkable experiences and as time passes and we hear it and see more, it gets worse in my mind. Why does it get worse? This is because the longer this matter has been discussed, the more clearly it has been that the evidence behind this is not professional, whether in the activities of the Agency or in the administrative process. Other instruments are more likely to include projects to the institutions, so men do this hipsumhas, depending on what is suitable for the minister at a time. Then there's only one argument, that men are doing this to get their money. It's a totally uncluttered way of making decisions to build it on those grounds. This means that humans do not care about the task exactly. That's what remains in my mind after this discussion, depending on the minister's response here and his language in this case. It's all we have left, picking up the money from the Ministry. A respectable president. I see the chairman of the State Department and I hope that a real examination will be made. We don't care about this important party, and it's awful to break up the peace that created for the total law as late as 2008. It's a short time for such a group of subjects to make some meaningful changes, denatations, as are being done here by this decision. I propose to the chairman of the Committee, because the Minister does not listen, asking about the question, and finding clear answers: What is needed to correct? Then an honest answer is: Is this really the way to do it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u68	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir for her speech. I'd like to begin with my answer by saying some of the points presented in the talk, since there is no political burden with this bill and as with the lack of conversation here in the conference hall, i.e. should be kept at ease. Staff members of the majority are speaking up. Yes, one person has, but apparently a distant member of the board of directors in this discussion is crying, not even listening to it. I agree with what. A senator, I'm worried that a horse wedding will begin, and they will say: " Yes, let the matter go through even if we haven't introduced it, it's clearly something that the government situation is completely at odds with. So I think there is every reason to worry about it, though I really hope it will not be. I agree with what happened. A senator says that this is a denatural change, not a morphological change, as the weather shows. I'd like to ask you what. A candidate for what has only been mentioned in the earlier discussion. This is true in terms of the Ministry's transport obligations, and in terms of their ability. One senator says that developing cooperation is not like another group of paintings. If the ministry's transportation capacity were recorded in this case, who would benefit? Is it for the benefit of the poor people in developing countries, or is it for the benefit of a government service, those who are even building up a ◯carrier's? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u69	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for her questions. It is in their best interests to enter through development assistance that the community and all aspects of society have been carefully studied there, i.e. A real job that needs to be done. Deep research is needed because, if not done well, i.e. Following such tests, these projects can directly harm humans. Sadly, there are many cases in the history of developing aid on such matters, where very well - meaning people decided to go and help in these countries, leaving more difficulties than they were when they arrived. These things happen because people have not studied the community structure or the mattresses in society. Then there is the need to be sure that the work will be done on the basis of society. I must say exactly as it is, I feel better that such decisions, research and professional knowledge are within a clearly defined institution with this unique role but not with other projects. Then I'm not minimizing the projects or the people who work within the Ministry, they have nothing to do with it. It's just because this group of subjects is extremely sensitive because we work there with people's lives and communities. Generally, development aid has tremendous benefits, but it can also be on the other side if humans do not do well. Therefore, I hope that people will think about this matter very carefully and try to keep the knowledge that has been gained here in the country by the Agency or the unit that can maintain the good work that has been done. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u70	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. One senator says, it is very important to study the community structure because developing cooperation can have such an enormous impact on communities and, of course, the standard of living, health, and education and other things that are fundamental to the public in these countries. Indeed, research shows that when development is successful, it improves these factors, living conditions, education, and health. However, studies also show that the quality and efficiency of the donor are reduced when the donor makes a personal contribution, e.g. Business or political interests are in charge. Hv. In her speech earlier, a senator made it clear that she was concerned that there was a transfer of money into the Ministry so that he could be more able to control the use of the funds. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with me that we have to worry not only about the crowns given but also about the politics, the highest. A minister can have such a much greater impact if this bill is accepted, considering what can be done in the present system? Is it not an aspect that we members of the Parliament need to consider and be on guard?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u71	A respectable president. Yes, there is a danger that under such circumstances political whims could lead to success. I'm not saying it happens, it doesn't automatically, but it can do it. It just depends on whether or not it is used. I don't want this group of subjects to have such an occasion for it to happen. I don't think any of us who have spoken in this matter would like to do that. Hence, it is so important that there is any doubt that this delicate group of subjects is in the hands of a professional group, not a thin wall to the minister, and a decision will be made there. If this is to be approved, which, of course, I hope not, we, the council, have to decide which way we're going to promote the State Department, i.e. We'll need surveillance from here. It is then that we are regularly being presented with accurate information on the ways in which men carry out these tasks, how they are carried out, and how the decision-making process is carried out, etc. This will be difficult for the jury, which means that individual projects can become bitter in political discussions. It's not the expedition, I think, that we want to go on, but it's going to develop that way. Then we may not be able to get as good comments from the DaAC as we received in 2012, where the Agency was doing its work tremendously well as being enthusiastic and flexible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u72	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator's speech. There may be two main points I would like to ask. A senator in. First, it points to the case, i.e. the section in which it is referred to as one of the key reasons for this proposal the highest. Ministers are the importance of ensuring that all contact with foreign countries and with developing organisations are in harmony and rhythm with Iceland's foreign policy, as well as that which the Icelandic government uses as one voice of international development. I have to say, Mr. President, that I made this special choice in the case as it was submitted a year ago. Then there was quite a debate over the conference saying that this was an unsurpassed presentation in a Senate hearing from a minister, i.e. to allow you to submit a text that contains an institution's innuendo. I honestly allowed myself to hope that by making the second effort, the minister would have at least Allow so little to review it in a persuasive way and to back it up with sound reasoning. But then we'll just get a repetitive repetition of this text, which I quoted earlier, and a further note will say: "With the subsequent changes, an overall view of the case will be improved, and it will be more certain that Iceland's policy in the seminary will be carried out. I want to ask you why. Senator on this. It's just that I feel like I'm suggesting that here, in fact, there's a pseudo-nual support and a virtual argument in a case that seems to be the only case at the highest level. Secretary of state for this council. I find it hard to believe that a minister needs to back up in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u73	A respectable president. Take it easy. A senator, of course, mentioned below all the caves and has been discussed here. Of course, it's not acceptable, but it's not the first time that there's any gaps in a report from the State Department, this Minister of State. It is fun to remember a piece of paper with a synonym to withdraw the memberal parish to the European Union, which suggested that there were members who had not voted according to their convictions. It is unique that men write such things in their reports. The minister in the past has found that such things are not surprising in itself. Then I know he was asked about it here in the chair, i.e. to what would be meant, to what agreement would there be in policy plans, or to what many of the developing forces we would be running? Then he would probably say here, so I'll just leave it behind, a respectable president, that it was a case he wouldn't mention in a public chair, but I should discuss it with the Foreign Affairs Committee. Then they talked to the Foreign Affairs Committee, and it was nothing. They just grab something to get their shit through. Just something. That the nation's rulers would allow themselves to stand on the platform and say, it was a bit, I can't tell you, and reason, and try to get them through the council in such ways that it's not acceptable. And then I have to say, sir, that there are other things in this report that I find strange and that I do not agree with the findings of the DaAC of Icelandic development teamwork that I've been reporting in the past 2012. What is stated in this report on Icelandic development cooperation, and then what is said in this report on development cooperation is not in harmony. So people are making something to get the case going and end it the way they want it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u74	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I would also like to pause at what was presented in the senator's talk about this part of the Icelandic government, i.e. Iceland's development community, as part of Iceland's self - image. I stopped because I agree with this, and I feel that this is an important understanding of the phenomenon of development. I feel that this gives us some thought to the context of things right here and now and the fact that already there is. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, then Minister of the Interior, has a review of the overall laws on foreigners and the affairs of foreigners in Iceland, she proposes that it be done under a transverse flag because of the importance, value, and tenderness of this seminary. When I'm at the highest. The minister of Ólöf Nordal continues that work, making it very clear to the Commission that she continues her work. This spirit soars over the waters, at the highest command. This weekend the government reported on its actions in refugee affairs and has a general view of how all of us can walk, be proud, and be content with our contribution to the worldwide community. This is of infinite importance. That's why I want to say that we're not talking about any institution. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason here said there was no need to skim with institutions just like that in the air. I couldn't agree more. But in this particular matter, it is especially important to achieve some perspective. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator of his political experience and insight: What are some ways that we can benefit from this group of languages under some combined transnational flag where the highest severity is. A minister can do everything decent?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u75	A respectable president. Those were good examples. The senator mentioned, because they are sensitive as the case under here. In 2008, we were able to bring a total law that was approved by the council in a very good way, transpolitic reconciliation. What's being done right now is to break that peace and drive through some change across everyone's will -- nobody's come here and deliver a fiery speech with professional arguments by this, let's just face it -- and I think they're in the wrong direction. What is called the following is an increased conversation, increased cooperation in language, increased solidarity, and cross - political solidarity. It is not upon us to sit down with the minister and try to find a way out of this matter and ask the question of what needs to be fixed, as it were. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon put it so well in his speech earlier, then jointly on the expedition to try to figure out how we can improve the quality of our conversation. I think what we could do now about this case would be to wait for the FAC report to come next year, which will definitely show us some useful tips on how we can improve our development activities, because everything can always be improved. I'm sure that's the case. They're not saying that everything is perfect just the way it is. I'm sure there's a way to make everything right. Then, putting down a tripolitic group that reviews it together, with the professionals who know the best of the country and even from abroad, and then offering a common proposal. I think it might be a real problem, and I think it might put the matter into place, and we were actually allowed to work that way on other subjects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u76	A respectable president. I just want to start by reviewing the criteria I know in this or, rather, what I would call a failure. V.E.G. In his speech, a minister said that this was one of the largest cases in the case of the State Department, and I don't know any better than it's true. On the other hand, I have been very unhappy to realize it, and have just failed it completely I must admit, what exactly that is as high as. The minister's plans are to make progress because the explanations given on this matter seem impossible. I don't know any evidence that a developing cohesion agency is not doing well or that it's inexhaustible unless it can easily be fixed by other means or simply define the project better or more clearly, which you would have thought was a rather simple work, simpler than this, simpler than getting through the General Assembly through a whole Congress case. The other is that there must have been some kind of communication between the Agency and the State Department, something we know, I believe, is simply not correct. At least this is not such a problem that there is a reason to lay down the Agency and install its activities at the State Department with its own resources and discomfort for staff. What I really find interesting about this subject is what follows a summary of it. It says, by permission of the President: It is not expected that the bill will affect the expenses of the state's budget. This tells me that it's certainly not for costly reasons that people offer the bill. It's hard to imagine that there will be any savings to government funds, so I'm sure, for one thing, that the cost of going through the council is more than what would be spared. Hence, only the alleged inefficiency remains, i.e. that the projects are not defined as being the agency and the Ministry of State to explain what belongs to each one, and you would have thought that it was easy to fix, and the other meant a communication problem that we now know is nothing. It's interesting to me that with the bill, the decision-making programme is changing, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Ministers are authorized by regulations, as is the establishment of a development team, which includes some of them. will be organized into five members of the council. I don't know what to do with this. If men have not given specific reasons for changing power arrangements, I do not see reason to go through the council with a whole Senate case merely to fix some alleged problem of communication or to explain the tasks of the institution. I just don't think that there's enough reason to change this, especially because of what is stated in the review of Iceland's National Social Science Center from the previous council, when it was presented by the President's permission: ▪ Research shows that developing cooperation improves the standard of living, health, and education in a professional way. Studies also show that the quality and efficiency of developing cooperation are reduced when contributions are made to their own interests, e.g. Business interests, politics, are involved in the distribution of progressive development issues. Under some circumstances, it may be some kind of democracies or a democratic approach to a legal matter. However, I have not heard much talk about it here from this pontta, for it seems that the government side is primarily responsible for discussing this matter materially. There is a prelude to developing cooperation, since there is no reason for members of Congress to be directly involved in any decision - making process. It seems simply that there is no need to monitor the operation in relation to what we read from the DMA or, for that matter, the representative of the bill. We don't see the need for a political inspection. We're gonna go for a second. Generals have enough work to do, a respectable president, no more projects, much less something that appears to be unnecessary and more successful in the hands of professional people, such as the European Development Agency. Considering that there is no need to save money by this, that indecision does not seem to be any richer than having to define the role of each institution and that the problem of communication seems hardly to be there, and the little one who has been mentioned here is one question of a particular matter, you don't shut down an entire institution. You don't set up a bill to change one of the biggest cases of the State Department in order to respond to such, more dignified President. If we're going to do that, if we're going to go into these changes and the bill and the development changes for such a small reason, I wonder what the Generals are going to do but do things like that. According to this, there may have been some grammatical reasons for doing this at some point. I just don't see them on this bill. I don't see them in the reviews last year when the case was submitted. I don't see them in rational support with the bill's report or the highest case. Secretary of state. I simply don't see any evidence with this that works. On the other hand, I see enough evidence against it. What you have to think about, too, and here we may consider to be a little more profound political discussions, is how it works. A government, especially this one, has authority and authority. The mere fact that there is such a slight change may not be a concern in itself in the common context of government use if it is not a government that repeatedly shows disrespect for the people, when it comes to the use of any authority. That is why I declare and have long expressed distrust in the way the government treats authority, how it feels about authority, and how it takes the matter for granted. It is pointed out in the reviews of the previous council that there is a legal right here for prime minister. I still don't see any evidence of it, and I would like to offer a foreign minister here in return to reason with me and us. I'm not totally against institutions change or because the Council has a better approach to all matters, I just don't see the reason to do it in this case, I don't see any evidence, none that can stand at least. The National Association of Iceland gives some comment on the case at the last council that I believe is a concern and absolutely legitimate reason to keep this work as professional as possible and that there is a risk that diplomatic emphasis may become involved in developing cooperation, i.e. that a donation will guide it for its own interests, not for the interests of the poor. These are legitimate concerns, a respectable president. Similarly, the United Nations points out that this is a class of languages that has been common and broad political agreements in this country, so you have to wonder why. Secretary of State wants more members of Congress. I would understand if this was a hot metal party where there was a lot of controversy in general. But if it isn't, I just don't get it. Besides, as the professional people say themselves, it does not seem to be the way to the seminary, natural. This is not a group of paintings that belong in this council hall, not at all, a respectable president. We should not be arguing about what professional decisions to make in the category, we should much rather make the procedure professional. It's like a process. There's been some mention that somewhere else it's like this or gay. First, I generally don't feel that we should automatically follow an arrangement that is used elsewhere. Secondly, the review of Iceland's Social Science Center from the fact that the case was presented to last assembly, I'm going to read it for word, by permission of a respectable president: ▪ Danmarks and Norway are named as successful examples, but both countries have recently introduced their developing institutions, Norad and Danida, into the State Department of State, without being laid down. Norad and Danida, each of whom recently hosted their 50 - year birthday, were still under the council. Just like Norad and Danida, the TSSI is a sign of the development of Iceland's development. DURING the past years, this magazine has built up a professional knowledge of evolutionary cooperation. Even if this was somehow different with our neighboring countries, I am not convinced that there was one reason to do things like other nations, for we are different from other nations, even though only because of the small size of the nation. Now I have a few reasons to go this way. When the evidence is so weak, you have to think about each other. I'm bored with the suspicion, but when it comes to power - and especially when people want to give authority that belongs in professional hands closer to politics - you have to ask yourself, " What is the real reason for this? ' Of course, a respectable president, I don't know because I don't read minds and I can't say anything for sure. However, I feel that it is important that we mention the possibilities to figure out what we're working on and why and why we're trying to work on. As far as I can see, they are that by putting down the development community and moving the job into the Ministry it is easier to control funding, especially at the highest level. The Minister of Foreign Affairs has a legal authority to further determine how the work is being done, then there's a financial authority. Investment power, a respectable president. I don't know if it's the ultimate plan. Minister to change something there, but I fear it might be, if not from the highest. Ministers from other members of the Ministry who may wish to have some more control over the matter. Sadly, more often, a respectable president, it can develop in our fine system of founders, where individual employees are simply at odds with individual employees of other institutions. This can be very damaging to you. There should be no news to anyone. If it's the case here, it would be more perplexing to specify it properly. But again: I don't know if it is. I think, though, that it is tempting for individuals in the other and those institutions to be able to simply control more money, perhaps have a little more impact on the way the work is done, in order to have some effect on it even if it is small, in order to determine how money is spent. In my opinion, the management is way too much money. In all the problems I've had to deal with, financial problems always come up, over and over again. I think it's a problem for all council members, and especially after the 2008 collapse. This is understandable, but it is intolerable. It is also understandable that, under such circumstances, people in the system tend to take on more of the money and perhaps think of things that they might not think of at all. I think it's important that we always keep in mind when we change authority, so it's more important to politicians why we're doing it. Does this group need a greater democratic approach? No one seems to recommend it. No one seems to be able to explain why. Does this institution need reorganization? Is it really something that's out of control? Is she having a bad time? No, a respectable president, it's not. Will we save funds with this, enabling us to do well in the same language later on or in the future? No, a respectable president. I see no reason to accept this bill. There may be some material reasons for wanting to change this arrangement, but I don't see them in this. We are always to - we are always to - a respectable president, to be suspicious when it comes to power. So I have to be suspicious when it comes to this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u77	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. He may be thinking about things similar to what I've been doing and others in the opposition. He talks a lot about information and that everything is done in public, and then you think it's quick that the minister here has decided to go against what the State Accounting has already said. Official review has warned against this arrangement, i.e. That one man against his way, that he may do it, and keep it in check. I'm sure we would agree that this is hardly a good government. I think it would be more convenient for the Ministry to shape this policy and the Council to be its guide, than that the agency we deal with here is doing it and the Ministry will see to it the kind of firewall that is supposed to be in between. There was talk of money, and we should be concerned that the funds in this area are lost in the distranslation of the Ministry, since the Ministry, as we may know, is not the most efficient thing in the world; not just this department, but the ministry at all. I wondered, " Is it not part of the lack of such a job going into the Ministry, where decisions often need to be made very quickly? ' We may not exactly expect a job to be planned because decisions are made quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u78	A respectable president. Now I have to admit that I don't know what I'm talking about. A senator's discussion of a state reexamination is, of course, only common sense. A senator noted that it is not the same person who determines all these factors. I think it's about funding, about the fact that the Ministry can sort out the money - temporarily in accordance with what is being done now, but then the time and other work of popcorn up at the Ministry, will become more aggressive and inevitablely paralleled. If this is one of the biggest case cases in the State Department, like the highest. The minister of state has rightly pointed out, and you would like to make sure that such cases are financed in a very clear way so that you can look it up in financial terms. It's impossible, I think, for civilians, and even members of Congress unless they have a bit of a problem, to find out exactly how the State Department of State would assign money to this category if there is no special feature, some kind of separation from another operation. It may not in itself be a trumpet reason for always doing things in independent institutions, but what I think so prominently here is that I don't see what problem men are trying to solve. However, I see problems, including the fact that the funding of the work becomes more omnipotent, making it more difficult for us senators to observe. We can now look this up in financial terms, including the common people. I can hardly say how this is going to work. I certainly see that it seems to be an omnipresent, at least as far as I can see it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u79	Mr. President. This may be one of the things that are part of this, too, what the Ministry does not do, but this institution does, and there must be some reason to wonder because it has not been observed either in Ministers or elsewhere, that Iceland's Development Group has a number of success measures on what it is doing. It has, as this has been attributed, nothing has been wrong with finding and doing rather well than with the other. We, however, have the Department of Peacekeeper. It's a rather implacable business. Like what? A senator pointed out that we cannot exactly trace ourselves through these things, and our goals are quite general. For the work is not of mine knowledge: it is counted to me in vain. Government procedures are not particularly good. For example, there was a job without advertising. There is really no official evidence or anything that shows directly results in that operation without my having any doubts about it, but those data just don't exist. I think it's very important. We're here talking about a very sensitive group of cases, and it's very uncomfortable that the Ministry cannot prove that it will be comparable. It is natural, Minister, to realize that we have a lot of doubt that this will be as good as ever.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u80	A respectable president. It's good to mention the peacekeeper, but the Red Cross has some comments about it in her opinion as the leading issue. This time, we are well - versed in by reviews; certainly not very many; but four. As far as I can see, there are three negative and one neutral people. The objective suggests a few changes that I seem to be the majority of them. One factor suggested by the Red Cross is that the bill will set up a target strategy of about 0.7% of the nation's income resources by means of the clear, targeted timing. As we know, this goal has not been achieved and there is no plan to achieve it, this otherwise - taking goal that we have, that I understand, has committed to us to achieve it. In view of the fact that this can't be found in the new publication that the bill, I don't quite get it. If a person is going to make more clear in the use of money, or preparing for the job to explain how money is new, he should add something to it, then he should listen only to the rest of the comments he received last year. We are now in 1st. About this case, but there were reviews last year. There are factors in the comments that are entirely worth listening to and taking into account, including these excellent suggestions that would explain how the budget would be applied but not make it less clear, as, as you get the best of it, will lead from this bill. As for the Peace Guard, I think, with the Red Cross it's important to keep it only when it comes to developing cooperation. Although these are certainly involved, it is very important not to be confused. In fact, the Red Cross says many things about it -- now I've had no more time to talk about it, more dignified president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u81	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson gave an excellent, brilliant analysis of the source of power and how it is handled. I've noticed why. The members of Pirata will be talking about the nature of the power in these sales here, naturally. Although they haven't been at the council for a long time, one of the first things they've learned is that, according to the Constitution, the authority should lie with the Lawgiver seems to be more than reasonable. This is what man has been trying to reverse in the high Council in recent years and even a decade. It was particularly significant that from 1995 on the blessed days of Davíð the Oddsson of Oddd, who, in the power of his ruler, saw to it that during that time the power was literally taken from the hands of members of the council and the rulers and placed into the hands of the Commission. Following the collapse of the bank and the various reports that were then written to identify the reasons for the crash, the conclusion was that one of the causes of the crash was just how firm ministers were in seeking power. In recent years, Congress made defenses, and it must commend the Lawgiver that in many ways he has tried to scratch his authority back to himself. In this case, however, we can see that men are moving in the old direction, i.e. In the matter, not one member of the council held a speech without a single answer, but the only one who has held a speech opposed the case. We know that at least the Independence Party, the Obi of the Board, is against it, but the minister intends to achieve it. What does it say? paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's prayer for this new renovation of power in the hands of the European Commission? [[The president calls.]] Does he not agree with me that this is part of such a trend?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u82	Yes, a respectable president, I was already on the younger side. Davíð the son of Oddsson, a former prime minister, was most effective in this town. Of course, it was widely spoken and rightly done has the tendency to amass power. When men show great insolence in these matters, there is good reason to be suspicious when men come in here with a matter of Congress designed to give ministers greater power and put more things under the heel of the political greater part, because the political more part at the Council reflects, of course, apparently, the exceptionally exceptionally little country, the government. If five members of the panel were to be on the excellent committee to establish, it is clear that the greater part of that committee would always be the administrative point. Even such democratic arrivals or supposed democratic attendance would mean that, all of a sudden, politicians would interfere with some professional decision suddenly to interfere, but that would be more of the task. That's always the problem. This is always what needs to be asked about power. Who's supposed to have caused it? When it comes to the development community, I cannot see that there is any reason for this to be true of politicians. These are professional decisions and professional students on a problem that is a political agreement on how to approach the rest. I can't see that any more political activity of this kind is improving when it comes to putting senators on the committee. Second, I doubt that members of the Parliament could care for it based on what it is generally far more than enough to do in this town even now. However, the authority to be given the highest would also be remembered. A minister of foreign countries gives him an opportunity to shape the work to share funds and to prepare for the work so that it would be more political and less.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u83	Mr. President. I may not agree completely with that. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said. Somewhere, the political power must come. The course to follow must be taken at some point. Today, it is the General Assembly that shapes the policy on the basis of a professional discussion of a proposal made by the Commission. A fine example of this is when I, as Minister of State, suggested how to provide budget for development until 2020. So I made a plan that was based on how we might expect economic development in Iceland and how we would expect to be able to become available based on how we were able to get out of the bank collapse. V.E.G. At the time, a minister disagreed with me. He was a regular U.S. senator, a member of the State Department of State, and not just him but all members of the Foreign Affairs Committee felt that I had gone too slow. It was motioning on the State Department that the plan was extended. Of course, I accept that. I had not had the courage to bring her along as a foreign - language committee in the end. In other words, the Council must, of course, be directed by the European Commission, to shape policy, to implement it, and to supervise it, and the Council must meet regularly. Besides, I can agree. A member of the council that it is not an urgent necessity for the General to oversee the matter. However, it is true that some of us, including me, are very interested in evolution and development, and we would like to be used through the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u84	A respectable president. I would have liked to hear more from the top of the board about the role of the members of Congress in all of this because there is a discussion that is certainly worth accepting. However, when it comes to the assembly's entrance to the seminary, there is a broad political controversies. Also, I think, the main concern is the organization's financing. The Agency is now unmistakably on budget, which is good. We can look up what she's using. We can talk to her representatives and they can come to committees, not just to some five members of the committee, but to those members of the Parliament who need answers or to those members of the council to whom the representatives of the Agency would like to speak. I don't see that this approach solves any problem. All members of the Parliament are now able to comment on the budget. We can always come here for a discussion about the activities of the council and discuss the data we know about the Agency or if there's a problem. We have this power. The political event is sufficient, apart from the fact that it is in all the comments that I have read about the matter that the Agency plays a professional role, that the work is the best paid professionally, and that it will suffer from the work if things like national interests or something similar are going to get in the way of getting in the way. These aren't decisions. We're not supposed to stand here and think about what's best for Iceland's business interests in connection with development aid. These are a lot more professional questions than that. We're supposed to treat them like they're professional. Most of all. We are to respect institutions that are effective in their work and in the matter of financial laws. Both are true about this institution. We should respect it, and we should continue to do what we do well and not be fixing something that is not broken.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u85	Mr. President. The point of this matter was most likely the last phrases. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson said just now. He expressed his view that things should not be changed properly. This discussion has shown that what I have failed to do has been very helpful. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson has failed to demonstrate, and what is primarily the highest. The minister of state has not been able to do so in this discussion, showing what the problems are like the organizational change proposed here to solve. Over the years, I have shared many times in changing the organization of the institutions, bringing them, bringing them together, changing their assignments, changing their religion and organization, but it has always had a breath. The opposition has been some form of evaluation, since people on a professional basis have concluded that it is the appropriate institution or a matter for the best of making the change under attack. The peculiarity of the change presented here by the highest order. Minister is that there has not been anyone to demonstrate the need for change. The opposite, therefore, is what. Councilmen in charge of the opposition, and one o'clock. A member of the government, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, suggested that men stay on track only, waiting for the peer criticism that has been offered by the OECD development team in Iceland's development partnership to be resolved. Then I can give you the highest. Minister one promise. If it's the conclusion of peer groups, equal nations, that there is a need to change the structure that is now being developed, then I will give up my opposition to this matter. I listen to those who reason, and I can point out reasons why a person should take certain action. But the highest. Minister has failed. First of all, he has not been able to show any examples of some sort of overlap between policy measures by the Ministry of State and the Development Agency. Second, he has not been able to demonstrate a single example in which the Department of State has spoken in some way other than the Ministry of Development. The only example that has been offered of this reasoning is what I mentioned regarding Uganda and its stand. THEY had a specific view about the way this was supposed to be expressed, the State Department of State. That was the way of the State Department. In other words, this is not an example of some sort of conflict, and even if there is one example, it does not justify this treatment. It doesn't matter where they kill them. You can't put a hook in meat on any of the arguments that have been presented for the case. More importantly, this is a suggestion made in a report made by one man, employee of the Red Cross of Iceland. A fine report in many respects. Among other things, it makes it clear how good cooperation is between TheSSI and the Ministry. But it might have been needed in this situation when a pot is being stirred, which is a financial institution that may have been consulted by more than one person. What about the theoretical aura we have in this field? We know that at the University of Iceland, there are scholars named for their analysis and work in this field. Would it not have been wise to listen to them? What is their advice? It's a two-way thing. First of all, do not shut down. Second, if there is to be a change to the Agency, then the best change they can see is to deliver all the projects the State Department itself performs in the field of development teamwork to the Agency. This is the point. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A minister goes against all that is available, and it is logical to count on matters. These are his own whims and that's it. [[The president calls.]] That's what worries me about the administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u86	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. We always come to this point over and over in this discussion, i.e. why change what is OK? This has not been shown the need to make the changes proposed in the bill we discuss here. I have to say, in spite of the highest. A minister has been present for all this discussion. He has not seen a reason to speak up, to answer this fundamental question, and to answer it again and again. Let me guess that's because of the highest. Minister has no answer. This is so that last May returned to the highest. The minister of state reports on the requested development team; I now do not quickly remember who, the daughter of Katrín and the daughter of Jacob, and others. Senators, I don't quite remember how many they were, but they were quite some of them on this request. It contains 21 listed questions that even woke up. after the discussions that had taken place here in the Assembly Hall. What struck me when I read this report is that there is no basis for what should be changed. A full report. That's not the point. Mind your own business. A senator who had such a report gave support to a case before the council without actually answering a basic question? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u87	Mr. President. Hv. A senator began his question by saying a few things about the peculiar fact that this is the highest. Secretary of State and thundering in his seat without answering any questions that are addressed to him or any comment. I have to say, I'm surprised too. V.E.G. The minister was here, with all the quirks on his feet. Senators in the last term, he cannot be accused that at that time, he had no mouth under his nose or was in charge to express his opinion. So I wonder what. Senator. It's like coming out in the morning and the loin's there, but she doesn't say dirindi anymore. In this regard, the inquiry as of any given moment. paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, along with me, and I'm thinking of all those who sat in bed then. The Commission of State asked, first of all, that it is very rare that the European Parliament's case is published by 29 members in order to be able to obtain the discussion, and so little that the information in Congress feels that it is most rewarding to ask questions that I am reminded of as being in 29 teams, in order to try to understand the purpose of the discussion. Second, it is completely out of the question that answers to such questions are rather valid for those who do not consider it good to attack that change. For example, it clearly states that this institution is highly esteemed, has not made any comments, and so on. So I agree with you. A member of the council to see that this case is oddly under way. I can't remember a case where there's so little support on the side of the board. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u88	Mr. President. Yes, I must say, I was surprised to read this report and to see how few the answers were. To be honest, I expected to get more meat on my bones and there was something in it that was more holding. There is something else that has been very much discussed on the part of us who believe that this is a sign of bad changes, i.e. to submit the Developmental Cooperative Agency, that's the assessment we expect from FAC right away next year. There's also been quite a mention of what a body of Congress can do in order to bring this matter into terms of some kind of reconciliation, even without the highest degree. Ministers of foreign affairs are very uncomfortable with this, and the matter is for the good of itself, i.e. The development team. I think at the end of the day, most of us would want to do well if we were to understand how much money we should put into it. It has been called the possibility of asking FAC to speed up her work. Now I'd like to ask you what. A senator and a former superintendent. Foreign Minister: Does he think this is possible, is it something that the National Assembly of Iceland can ask and is likely to do?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u89	Mr. President. I don't trust myself to claim that the DaAC would grant such a request if she came from the council unless it was clear that it was transferred from the greater part of the council. In such a situation, I feel that this is possible. Of course, it would be most successful if a person wanted to go that way, if more of the members of Congress believe that it is the highest. A minister of foreign affairs who communicates with this institution in this field would make such a request available. Because I'm a realist, I don't have much hope of being the highest. Minister will. He has only conquered his head in this case and believes that he will lose his face in this field as if he would not use all the strength he can achieve by extorting the team of cooperater to obey in it. I expect this case to be part of some kind of horse shop behind if it's like it. In any case, there is something to consider in this matter. First, do people want political solidarity on a sensitive case? Second, if they want to do so, can they agree to sheath their weapons and unite in waiting for the consonants of FAC? Third, there is the wideness of human vision to explore additional possibilities, such as. The one who was first identified by Davíð, the son of Oddsson in his day as minister of foreign affairs, and is still presented with theoretical reasoning but Davíð did at his time in the review of the social sciences of the University of Iceland? The possibility is that, instead of installing the Agency in the Ministry, all the services of the Ministry are being transferred to the Agency. [[The president calls.]] There is one way to look at it and to explain the difference of action if you think it is necessary to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u90	Mr. President. This is a good exchange of communication. I think there are a number of ways in which we agree on quite a number of issues involved. It was spoken of here about FAC, and I find this to be so much of a concern that the DaAC points out that the schools of the United Nations that receive approximately The 15% of Iceland's development budget has not been taken out or found to be effective. It may not be professionally strong, and I began to think that I was concerned about whether similar measurements would continue. Although I don't count the measurement of the beginning and end of the story, it's important because it's a lot of money we're dealing with and a sensitive group of subjects. That's why I find that very interesting. Of course, developing cooperation takes time. This is a long - distance gel, perhaps reflected in the highest form of it. At lunchtime, the prime minister said that this is not something that just happens, but it is a long - term project, and it needs to be kept in mind. I think it should be done by the professionals who have been doing it in the past few years. In all this discussion, we must not forget that there are people in a foreign environment who are involved in this assistance. I ask myself about its voice. What will happen to her? What's the economy for the people in cooperation countries? Just to take another spin on that discussion about the case we've had here at the council, we've watched a bit much just the organization.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u91	Mr. President. I think the practicality of this is for those who enjoy the benefits of working together that development with the Icelanders is exactly nothing. I think there is a greater chance that our cooperation's benefits will be reduced. In this discussion, there has been brief evidence that a new arrangement of the type suggested could reduce the production of experience and knowledge of the Ministry case. This is because according to the bill, the workers who are going to enter the Ministry at the beginning, if any, I suppose, since the people who are handling these matters, that is just part of the transport market, go for a relatively short period of time, three years to four years, to developing communities. This is likely to happen after some preparation, but they do not go there after perhaps having worked for a decade, even though they are all willing to do it and no doubt full of interest and well done. It's a sort of special group of paintings, and he needs knowledge and experience in the job. I think that gradually there will be experience within the Ministry of State, but it will not be as deep and as extensive as it is now found within the TSSI. This is one of the factors in which people point out that they can be one of the consequences. For example, it is mentioned in the reviews of a professional from last year. So, quickly, I see no benefit in this matter for those who have been blessed by us. Of course, I fear there will be no stopping here. Let us not forget that this was first presented to be true of one occasion. A candidate for the advance party, who boasted of having managed to cut down contributions for development cohesion in trog. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u92	Mr. President. Yeah, that's the way it was. I agree with the senator, and it has been shown in our case today on the staff and on the knowledge and experience established by the Agency. I would like to read only from the 2014 SSSI report, with the permission of a president: ▪ Independent assessments carried out on projects completed also indicate that the Icelandic developing cohesion funds had been well spent. Thus, the final discharge of water and hygiene projects in Malawi confirmed a significant benefit in life conditions and in the health of those who enjoyed it. In addition, the overall work of Iceland and Namiba in the fishing business confirmed that there had been good and lasting success in Namibia as a significant factor. Everywhere we've traced, there's reviews like this. Now I know only the experience of people from the first hand of being on the scene, participating in such projects, both in development and in other ways in different countries, and in all the people I have spoken to believe that the more important things are near at work. People fear that this will make it smaller and, as I've said before, that once things have gone into the Ministry that may not be widely known for efficiency and speed of payment, it will be difficult. I think it is important to strengthen the field education system in order to attract young people who can imagine working in this sector because it was talking about adults who may have been working for decades. Of course, it's a question of whether the juvenile system that's now at the Ministry is one of the things that should be moved to the TSSI, the work security and the like, may be more likely to fall that we can renew the people much faster than we can. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u93	Mr. President. That's why. A senator is very interesting, as she always does when she speaks up about what I am about to say. I think the basics of this whole matter are: there is no obvious reason for this. There's no serious reason for this. What is the source of the problem? This was due to the beginning of the season when a cut-off committee was put down. She set two goals. First, cut down where she could, second of all, to unite organizations. The statements made by members of the committee became less effective than material. Yes, indeed, the machete was packed and brought back with blood. But where did it stand? In the development community. It was attempted to cut down largely beyond what the General Assembly of Iceland had committed to making a contribution to our wonderful cooperation countries. Second, they were declared that among candidates, who would be very willing to examine with a view to simply slaughter the individual's institution by means of the TSSI. She wasn't protected then. The minister did not defend this institution. He comes from a group that had been very hostile to these issues in all declarations at the time of such discussions. The committee that was using antiunifications had very little than that, but this institution had a good problem, and she had few friends in the management team. That's why. This is why the government is being pushed into this. She has no financial advantage, but it is possible to cross the hatch and say, "One less institution. That's all. That's a bit of a sad conclusion, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u94	Mr. President. We're still discussing this big case as high as ever. Minister of State has brought back to us since spring when it was considered the transfer of Evolution into the Ministry of State. In this regard, I want to recall that in March 2013, the General Assembly agreed to adopt a proposal for the 2013 development team, a love of the State Department under which the Department of State is the League of Nations. It aims to establish a 40% share of the European Development Agency for development expenditures while the rest is mainly set aside for international institutions. Now they are changing their plans to put down the European Development Agency and transfer it into the State Department. A minister has discussed this - he has not spoken here in this discussion but has merely recommended the case -- said that there will be no change in direction. The bill has met with great opposition within the council as well as with those known to the seminary and who have come from within the institution itself. Although employees may not have trusted to step forward to criticize, this is a source of great dissatisfaction at their fronts. It has been seen to see where the inspection will take place when this group of subjects will be at the same time. It has also been strongly emphasized that the Agency has done very well and the National Review and previous assessments by DiaC, referred to in the OECD Development Network, have set a good record for the Agency. V.E.G. According to a minister, there is a greater additive effect and a more effective use when the group of paints becomes part of the Ministry. There are fears that men were primarily applying for the funds below the Ministry to starve, especially in 2013's financial laws, where the Ministry was severely maligned by financial laws. There is no way to hide the dissatisfaction of these suggestions among the Agency's employees. They are found, not just in members of Congress who have expressed themselves in the language, untimely and unconvinced. I believe we are directly waiting for the report that is being talked about, peer review, and there's no reason to be so upset about the matter, except as it were. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson earlier mentioned that men were crossing into their laps in order to put a matter through. That smells a lot of it. The total production for the development of Iceland in 2015 is about 3.6 billion. That is why the European Development Agency of Iceland receives 1.6 billion. Unfortunately, this is more than half of what was aimed at in the development team that I mentioned earlier in 2013-2016. V.E.G. The minister of state spoke in spring that the percentage would be about 0.23%, but it was, in fact, as it were, 0.21%, so it's down. Sadly, Iceland and I are large boating for these states and need to improve in order to be in the same place as the rest of the North countries.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-21-9.u95	Mr. President. Although we have reached the end of our discussion today, I was so impressed by the talk. A senator told me that I couldn't get our things together and say goodbye that good day without my showing up to say thank you. A senator for a very bad speech. I'm not going to interrupt her with any question because her speech was so easy to understand, but I just wanted to give her my thanks for her contribution here.
