ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u1	Mr. President. I want to thank you. A senator and president of the United States, Helgi Hjörvar, before his speech. A number of points were presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator, but I would like to ask the senator about the financial and health system, for it is not even a matter of suspicion that it is now a guarantee that it is possible to continue in the masked privatization but rather clearly that it is impossible to encourage more of the contribution to the Land Hospital. I'd like to ask you what. A senator will see if he thinks I want to go on the way when I have strong suspicion that this is the beginning of a very private period in the national health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u2	A respectable president. We know the methodology of extreme rights in this regard, the starving of government agencies to cause the problems caused by the famine, resulting in a self - conscious argument for the matter of personal choice. Of course, it is obvious that if people are going to divorce in this way with the Hospital that this is the only way that they want to get the hospital in trouble. It is a concern, as I described in my speech yesterday, that during an extremely difficult time of cuts when a major hospital cuts were being met, however, a conversation was made between the hospital and the financial resources. Then the hospital's efforts were discussed, and they came to a common conclusion on how to work out the difficult situation. It is, in fact, completely incomprehensible that now when the good things are done, people are in a conflict with the hospital's front for granted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u3	President. Thanks for the answer. I'd like to ask, because of what. A senator has quite a more serious congregational experience than I do, whether he is familiar with the chairman of the legal committee, then claims to be in charge of the Land Hospital or presidents of other important public institutions, as took place earlier in this month. I was surprised, I must say, how the chairman of the budget Committee spoke of the members of the Land Hospital. I'd like to ask you what. A senator is familiar with comparable events. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u4	A respectable president. One terms in which I served as a financial committee, 2003- placed,2007, and, of course, it is a financial arrangement that allows people to exchange opinions. While the discussion may stir up and people may criticize one another, I think that what they have been dealing with in this case was a demeaning statement to officials who are simply trying to account for the situation as they see it. Proselytizing expressions about those who explain their case with a budget of spiritual violence has nothing to do with objective discussion and, unfortunately, are the members of the council, and unfortunately, the members of the council, too, are being avoided here by the council itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u5	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I felt that he was doing well over the expectations that were built in the public when it came to taxing this evil vulture, which ended up in the Convention on Strategies, which may still leave the nation in currency capitals, but demands have reached high levels of contracts on their terms. I'm thinking about the economy and the way this government has cleared up all opportunities. The prize of a government fund may not be so great at the moment, and people may rely on irregular groups, such as the profit of the Bank of Lands. In view of the failure of a stone, where is the famous economic government of independence, and the figure that the government fund is supposed to pass away is always falling? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u6	A respectable president. It's better than it has to be said that this government had a good living. For a few years, the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's government had been a powerful economic growth that has continued, especially with practical projects in the north, on the Southnes, and elsewhere, as well as investments in new factories that were laid on the foundation during that period. However, one has missed that we have seen some economic activity in this region that will bring us results. The only thing that the government has really done in this business is to work out the bond that we set up in foreign demands by law on March 12, 2012, and I am afraid that it has not been sufficiently successful for a financial operation on the part of the government, since it does not have a chance in the vital work that we are facing today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u7	Madam President. Since then, the tax system has been stirred well, and taxes are lowered by the income - rich. The number of tax steps should be reduced for the next two years from three to two. Fear why. The senator's consequences, as a result of what changes in tax steps may make in the terms of those with less pay, have had to take on major increases in the form of tax taxes, and have not at all enjoyed the tax paid taxes that have come primarily to them. See what? A senator's counterweight measures for the environmental low income in order to improve their terms in some way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u8	A respectable president. You have reason to worry. Senator. One of the main reasons for learning about the recent economic crisis is that we overindulged in society, with disastrous results. Hence, the emphasis on collapse was strong, and we have now received confirmation that by the end of the terms of the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir government, the majority of the events had been equaled here. Since then, however, all the tax measures in the management sector have given them the best available in the country, subsidizing a wealth tax, paying taxes, and, most amazingly, adding food taxes to the public in the country. Still, some of the promised counter measures remain undenied, but of course they never came out. It is a shame for the advance that the tax he says has never wanted to go up in a single cycle just because the Independence Party wanted to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u9	A respectable president. I must first commend myself. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for his guts. It is the daring thing to dare to mention the hedge fund from this speaker, especially because he complains that before we have reached enough money at the hedge fund at the same time that his party saw all the signs before the last election that we could get any money from these same hedge funds. [[To the point: No, no, no.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's the way it was, and it came out all the time. [[Take it up: bull and nonsense.]] This too is of great interest to us. A senator and describes a fertile force of ideas when he comes up here and interprets that a good attendance at demand meetings, 90 percent attendances, means we're going to get too little money for the funds. It describes an amazingly interesting imagination, and I have to commend him for that too. Why do we not use them to improve the quality of the elderly and the poor? Why don't we use this money in Land Hospital, like what? Senator wants to see me? [[The president calls.]] Because we're paying off the debt of state funds. I thought there was a deal, that everybody was happy that we tried to pay off the debt of state funds. We're paying 80 billion dollars a year to grow. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator resents that we use the funds that come in to pay off the State's interest costs?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u10	A respectable president. I'm not going to give an answer to compliments on daring and speculative thinking, but I think there's every reason to thank the senator for those beautiful words to me. Why don't we use this money to pay off debt? That's right, that's right. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson. But the idea was to use this money to pay off debt to a sufficient extent so that there would be a government fund for needed expenses. This shows that this has not been done, for the burden of growth is still so high that there is no room for these needed expenses. And don't tell me anything, okay? A senator, about who bound the demands. I moved as a 1st carrier of the bill on taking these assets under the head of currency, and it was always clear that it was done so that they would never be released unless Icelandic national interests were guaranteed. I have reason to believe that we need to examine it carefully and carefully whether it was done as expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u11	A respectable president. Let us continue with a talk. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar. He also spoke a little bit about the Land Hospital and that the hospital is not getting all the money he wants. In the past three years in this government, contributions to the Hospital have increased by 30%. It's just a fact. That doesn't mean the hospital's getting all the money he needs. I can totally agree with what. That's what a senator does. We need to do much more with regard to contributions to the hospital. But I have to say, I think it's pretty good that in three years, we'll be able to make a quick contribution to the Land Hospital by 30%. I don't think there's any reason why I can't. A senator disagrees that it takes more than three years to get this large ship organized by the Landsaver.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u12	A respectable president. The percentages the senator chooses to talk about because he does not want to mention the missing funds at the Land Hospital are largely due to increases in pay during the term, the increase in pay that the state fund has a considerable amount of tax pay, and then the income of valuable taxes and other social taxes. What we're saying here is that when the good stuff is nonsense, it's just that the hospital's getting the money it needs to serve the patients he's supposed to serve. I don't think that's a complicated claim. And if you don't have a problem when the governor declares that there's a lot of nonsense here, then what's it gonna be like when it's in a famine. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his passage. He made it a subject of decommissionment and how it has been conducted where the result was, in fact, that what was supposed to be a stable tax became stable where the fragments were given off the stable tax by forced contracts. I'd like to curious about it by then. A senator's opinion is that there really is a large sum of money there. Somewhere during the discussion, it was said that the stable tax should have returned about 850 billion dollars. But with the discount, the result will be nearly 300 billion, with an increase of some 500 billion. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator that this may be the case, and how does he see this in the context of this budget and priorities, in which we are discussing serious financial problems among the well - beings?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u14	A respectable president. It is the amount of money that runs at hundreds of billions. It is difficult to mention an accurate number, since it depends on how to calculate a valuable bank account that is uncertain because it and other factors have failed to find a buyer. What we need to worry about is that it has happened to us Icelanders in the past to overestimate our future interests and at least our future situation. calls to any warning bells that just as soon as these contracts are made, the burden of Kingdom funds is so heavy that people feel that they do not have the necessary expenses, as they agree with us in the opposition and the Department of Life - Givers and the Land Hospital for an attack.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u15	A respectable president. When these measures were taken, I remember that the bank manager said it so that we had one shot to load the gun and a shot couldn't be lost. But I can do it. A senator's assessment of what will happen if a problem arises? Now it is the government's primary duty to protect national interests and to ensure public interest. How does that count? A senator of public interest is guaranteed by this action and how likely does he feel that this shot will not fail?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u16	A respectable president. Of course, it's quite dramatic to the bank manager that there's only one shot in the gun, for of course it may not be that all the money is missing. But whatever the money is, the consequences of making a deal of it in this regard are much clearer. They're taking on the standards of living in this country. They lead to more interest in the welfare of the State Fund and a reduced share in it. This can also lead to a worsening rate of loans in the country and as a result, growth in the interest that again affects commercial investments, since when companies take loans to make investments, they grow on loans based on interest rates enjoyed by the state's funds and worsen their prospects for new investments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u17	A respectable president. I'll be right back. paritaprevir You know, Skarphéðinsson's pal before the meeting, I have nothing to do with a meeting board. President to check, but there's an undeniably hoping to see a new member of the Presidency Committee sit on the chair because I went here to the store a few hours ago, perhaps an hour or so, when I introduced the president who was then sitting on the chair, depending on the work schedule that would be in effect here tonight. Because the Parliament's work programme is sadly broken and ruined, I think there's at least a plan for the night, and I'd appreciate it if the president just wanted to tell us how long she intends to continue the meeting so that we can plan both here and at home with regard to it and let our people know and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u18	Mr. President. I'd also like to know how long the President intends to have the meeting tonight. I have nothing against staying here tonight. I just want to know how long a meeting should last, which is extremely normal at any workplace. I voted with a nightly meeting, and actually didn't ask, let alone a few senators in my section, that it would be an expedite of tonight's meeting, but I'm sure the president will inform me of the length of the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u19	Madam President. The clock is now walking one, and we're in good shape on the Adventist. It is quite clear that there is still much to be left in the discussion of budgets, as the bill's presentation has been quite different and much to do with it. Many members of the council have reasoned here that the case should be brought back to the committee and that it would be prepared before the 2nd. It's over. If the President doesn't want to do what's been said here several times, I'd like to ask a president how long he intends to continue this meeting. It's important to everyone. It is in harmony with good modern business practices that we let one another know what we are thinking as long as we do not play all our most precious political cards. [[The president calls.]] I can't believe that it's that way with President that the biggest trompin is about what time a meeting is supposed to be over. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u20	A respectable president. It's now, it looks like, 14 hours a day. Can't it be? We started 10:30 this morning. It's 1:30 now. It's been 14 hours, then. I'm a happy, happy woman, but I would lie if I said, "Yes, I'd love to stay here much longer. " A respectable president. I want to get back to my house. I'm supposed to be here again in the morning. 10 or 10:30, I don't know either. I will give another speech. That's a 20-minute speech. I need time to prepare it, and I don't do it here tonight. I ask, not just for my own sake, but for all of the people in the hall, that this meeting will be postponed in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u21	A respectable president. We've talked about this before. We thought we were going to get into a civilized period of time, where we discussed how long we'd be and put some frames on. I don't think anybody in this room has voted against this night meeting, but it would be okay, because we have commitments in different places and at home, to get information about when people are going to finish meetings so that they could make arrangements. It is a strange and somewhat awkward power tool not to tell us when to complete this meeting, as if it were something that mattered in the large context. I don't think so. We have received the answer from the prime minister that he is not interested in meeting our proposals regarding older citizens' affairs and disability. However, there are many members of this council hall who may have a different view. We should arrange to sit down with them and discuss the preparedness of the council, even if the government is not, to improve the interests of older citizens and microlooms as we have suggested. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u22	A respectable president. I must be bitterly disappointed that the president who is now seated on his throne would follow in the footsteps of the one who once sat here this evening. It sucks to see the chairman of the Senate one of the other sabbaticals like a puppet in the band of prime minister who threw the mask memorable earlier today when he sent orders from this platform to members of the government, foot soldiers, and then went away because he has not been present for this discussion and was not here when the foot soldiers said no on the suggestion to correct the ideals of disability and the elderly. It is just so pathetic to witness this, and it's amazing that the current social and moral standards of the workplace cannot be followed by a plan of work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u23	Madam President. This is a general assembly session at the end of the year. Eight, but they agreed to give us a warrant for an evening meeting. The government did not comment on this. However, in view of what I said about the vote earlier today, I find it natural to expect such arrangements to be discussed in advance among the council groups and the prime committees. I also feel that it is normal that we are discussed with us for how long we should continue a meeting. In fact, I've felt this way about all the eight years I've been at a council. I don't understand the communication that always starts here every time a night's meeting is going to be where there's some kind of nervous war and it's not about how long it's supposed to go on. This is ridiculous. I wondered when we're gonna get a President at a council meeting who's counting on me to break up this behavior pattern. [[The president calls.]] When do we get a president at a council meeting who's counting on us to do that? [[The president calls.]] Will be in my time here, or I'll have to stay as long as I can. þm. Steingrímur J. Sigfusson at the council, hoping that one day a president will come to a council meeting who is confident to change this? [[Up front.]] [[Foreground on: Yes, yes.]] [[The president calls.]] This is ridiculous. [[The point is, that's what we think.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u24	Madam President. I hope you don't have to spend 30 to40 years at a council to make things change because it's true, a warrant was requested for a night meeting, and it needs to be discussed. Tonight's one thing, but it's night. After midnight, we think it's night. They're supposed to be asking for a night-and-night meeting or something, because this needs to be explained better. There's nowhere to go, and you can't say: it's because you're like that or gay. It is not only fitting for adults to speak in such a way if they are willing to try and resolve matters. It needs to work on both sides. I'm sorry, but that's the kind of message we received from the highest level. Prime Minister today that he is now out on the raisin. It's kind of like that, since he's not going to talk to anyone and he's not going to give up. A person in his position is not well - mannered at a critical moment when he is in need of a spirit of government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u25	A respectable president. It is only natural to ask for a president to inform us of the plans for tonight's conference and cannot be squeezed out of the goody and gave colleagues like that. 3.m. n.. No., the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir promised to repeat the inhuman ordeal. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon has shown by being here at the Council for more than the oldest. [[Up front.]] This is not to be so that for decades it is necessary to experience that the president informs us of the plans for the Senate. We've been willing to pay for action, and we at the government stand did not vote against evening meetings. However, it is voluntary to inform about plans for the council and into the night and until the next morning.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u26	A respectable president. On Saturday, a meeting was held with the presidents of the council and with the representatives of all the classes here. So it was written whether we should try this time to do this somehow differently, even trying to put down the projects ahead of us and see what you really get to finish and what you don't do and try to get some agreement on it and something out of the way. The work was started to write it up, but then a prime minister came here today and expressed his opinion on the work of representatives of the political parties at the General Assembly, and so it was. But if we were just practitioner here and wondered what it is that's going to be done, it's gonna be a lot. It will be the band at 2 and 3 C.E. Um... it's about to go to the 3rd. budgets, 3rd. funded by this discussion, they want to get a discussion on government finance, the secretary of finance wants to put a new bank bill on a committee, social and housing minister on schedule, etc. How many days before Christmas? [[The president calls.]] I challenge the chairman of the council to try to handle this and talk to the prime minister about it and to remind him of the number of cases waiting to happen and to put some confusion into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u27	President. Would it not be wonderful for the president who now sits on his seat to break ancient, ridiculous traditions that cannot be informed of when a meeting is to be completed? I must say that nowhere else I've worked, and yet I've done a lot of strange jobs, such a methodology has worked, or was at the head, of trying to maintain some kind of authority with uncertainty. All that does is the President's conference board, as much fun as it is. In fact, many of the best speeches have been given under the completion of the President's conference board so that we will persevere in discussing him until the president ceases to use power in this way by not being informed about when the meeting will be terminated. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u28	A respectable president. It's true verbs so lame I don't know which way to turn. We're all ashamed, and naturally the president of the council, that we're standing here, it's time to be alone, and we don't know when we're going to have a meeting here. This is like a children's home, and not even - it would be called violent if children were treated like that. [[This is worse.]] Sometimes people are put on the table, and then they're put on because they're getting negotiated. That happened in Paris the other day. Then they spent the whole night working shifts, and they were making a deal. What were they negotiating about? They were negotiating a climate plan, and everyone was happy and happy. But we're not here to negotiate, no, no. There are some men sitting here saying, "It's none of our business. We're not going to do anything for disability. " We're not going to do anything for Land Hospital. Just talk and talk. President. I object.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u29	President. Because they were talking about whether people would have to be in the Senate for decades to make this change, it's natural that way. They'd have to put a cover on the cameras, it's so stupid. Who understands? Some people who come over and over again ask, "What time has it been? And then somebody stands and just ding and answers nothing. It's a natural thing that can't be explained to anyone. This is totally incomprehensible. And I'd like to ask the President, "When did this strange tradition begin?" Is there someone who is familiar with the history of the Generals who can tell us when this strange custom began? This might be something that an FBI office could make up, some report, something like that. When did the custom begin for members of Congress to ask questions, ask a question to the president, and the president say nothing? And just over and over and over. And then when the time is up, this is what happens! [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u30	V.E.G. President. I have three questions to the top. President: Is there a plan of some kind going on for the General? [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Taken out of: expired.]] [["Ding."]] Extinct. If it exists or is working somewhere, could we find out about it? [[Take it up in Noi.]] Then second, I'd like to ask, "When are you going to go to the highest level?" The President cancels this meeting and postpones the discussion of the budget? Third, I'd like to ask, because this is a meeting at the General and Education Committee in less than eight hours, if a president feels there is no need to observe the general period of rest. The legal requirements for remuneration include an 11 - hour rest period, which can be overlooked by an eight - hour period. [[The president calls.]] These laws are unacceptable to us, and they do not require normal rest in the highest esteem. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u31	A respectable president. The word "concerning " is simply too fine a word for the confusion here. It's not a tradition, it's just bullshit, bad habits. [[It's bad habits.]] Now, the government has been willing to cooperate and to assist in the work of the council ever since the fall of a council. Residents began two weeks earlier with consideration for the management committee's plan, which claimed that they needed more than enough time to handle the budget. Then the council could wait for three weeks to come in here. Now, after the apparent opening of the formal work programme, it is necessary to call for information on a work plan. But tonight, the seventh night in a row, we're supposed to be talking in here into the night over sleeping people. [[The president calls.]] It is most disappointing, especially in view of the fact that the president who is now sitting on a chair is a schoolmate who should be able to do better work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u32	Madam President. I thought of each bell howling when the bell was snapped up at the bell under the mouth. Senator. But it would save us a lot of time if we were given how long we should stay here for the night, if we could take some breakers down here in the hatches. It's like some freezer leader. I'm bored with the discussion that's been here tonight, like with what's happened. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, that the poor and the elderly have really had enough, that it's only good. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u33	No, I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u34	I'll call them after what. - Yes, it's all good and there's nothing to do better. [[I said... minimum wage.]] V.E.G. In the media, a minister of finance says that there are people who go out in the morning and return in the evening, perhaps with no better benefits, and that makes it justified not to do better with the elderly and the desperate. [[The president calls.]] Where are we when the discussion is on that schedule?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u35	Madam President. There's a bit of a pussy coming into the world, and it's not unusual. We're here at the seventh night meeting on this matter. What I'm wondering is not just when a meeting will be terminated tonight, but I'm going to the General and Education Committee at the time. 8:30 tomorrow morning. My backup is on that committee, and this was called a legal rest period. I'm also a financial representative, so I find it normal to attend this discussion. It's clear that there are budgets, funds, bonds, and dates to be taken care of. It's clear, before New Year's, it has to happen. What does the government and its footwear pay? What does it do to the government and its foot soldiers not to be a total at this time? Do they prefer to come to a total of December 29th? Is that better? Is that better for the shape of the council? Is that better for the Senate? Is it better for the terms of government and for those who rely on what is available there? [[The president calls.]] I think it's important that we do this sooner than later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u36	A respectable president. I thank my god not to be the senator's bell when two school champions are put together. I sometimes think of myself as a brave man, but I have no means of giving advice to the pitiable schoolmaster sitting here behind me. That's why I'm not gonna do it. On the other hand, I believe it would be payable for action, if it were the highest. At night, the president would make no mistake about the way she intends to break up meetings. I myself am quite prepared to remain until the morning and believe that this discussion, as shown by another president of the United States earlier today, SeysteinÞorsteinn Sæmundsson, brought out a number of useful facts. I can stay here and discuss these matters until the morning, but only under the circumstances. The president parted that the fine tuna salad that's out here will remain there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u37	A respectable president. I wanted to use this opportunity to reiterate the question to the president, but at the same time, I use the opportunity and correct the misunderstandings that have been raised in the discussion of the length of the discussion under these teams. I don't know what this is about the Future Party and Iceland record and world record, but I've realized in the past that the discussion has become like two long speeches in the U.S. Congress, so far from being world record. I went out here in my office and checked for a second-and-a-half. In the General Parliament and this debate can't even make it to the winning part, let alone be one of Iceland's record. It's been more than twice as long as we're talking about this stuff, so we've got a long way to land in this, like in the debt correction, both by setting up Iceland record and by much of the world record.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u38	A respectable president. I want to see that there are rules about working hours and rest at the General Assembly, and a meeting has been announced. 8:30 tomorrow morning, General and Education Committee will reiterate your request to the highest level. The President explains how the Senate will be held tonight and when we can expect to complete our work here so that the members of the committees can rest before the meeting tomorrow, and we can split up our work and organize the work for the next few days. In a normal working environment, it is a natural wish to know what plans are at the highest level. The President has in this respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u39	V.E.G. President. I think it is quite clear that the government would want two things: one on the one hand, to know the will of the Council is about the duration of a meeting, and another, our opinion is that this meeting should be completed. Without any authority I have to say, I suspect there's a compromise, and it's that we continue our discussion, provided that there will be all legal committees there to come to the highest level here. A health minister to talk to us about the Land Hospital and our wishes for another 3 billion, to attend this meeting at the highest level. Minister of Education and taking part in a discussion about the State Radio, we're ready to stay until the morning. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Otherwise, this meeting is to be terminated now. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u40	Madam President. You know, you know, you know, often find out what you're doing. paritaprevir The count of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson was right in his mouth, as we're told in VG, and he hit the nail on his head. It's not okay to call out other members of Congress and others at the highest level. Minister of this discussion? [[Up front.]] Don't you think? I trust Mrs. President will make an effort to summon and fill the hall with senators and councilmen. I can see why. A senator and a member of a panel of independence officials grabs his head, and it's not too bad to have independents and officials on the night shift with us that men need to hold their heads. But I think it's impossible to expect us who have the best interests of the poor and the elderly to stand here, a god can know what, all night, when others who take that matter lightly lie down at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u41	Madam President. I'm only here to agree with my colleague. paritaprevir The count of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson, saying that I am ready to speak here all night, and all morning, provided that the highest. The health minister will be here for a meeting. Hv. paritaprevir For example, in his talks, the grandfather of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson has demanded that he have a place to speak at the highest level. Minister. But as noted earlier, when Kári Stefánsson wrote an attack on the medical government, he has been able to pass through that article without remembering it. A health minister would exist. I can believe the highest. President for the fact that I remember the highest. Kristján Þór Júlíusson, and now we want him here for a meeting. I believe it would also be respectful of the council if it were. The chairman of the budget board would also be here. Where is she? Why are we here without having a place to speak with her?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u42	Madam President. I'll take what I want. Senators Aggis, Össur of Skarphéðinsson, and son of Jónasson, expecting the president to take steps to call here in the highest court. A health minister, who certainly has to answer certain questions about the evidence that the Landspians have provided and have not yet done so, so I do not talk about the highest level of information. Secretary of education. We've heard of that in the evening news at the highest. Ministers should have trouble putting their national government bill through the government because it was not supported by the administrative organisations. Here are some questions about the pay of radios and the amount of the radio, the Kingdom News, and its status, and none that would answer them but the highest. A minister of education who will, of course, be involved in this discussion because what has happened in it is that the declarations he made in the autumn seem impossible. So I agree with this requirement and expect Mrs. President to respond to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u43	V.E.G. President. It is this phrase that you hear proselytists after one another say: 'We who have the best interests of the poor and the elderly'care for the elderly. They are the same people, and they are more proportionately down to those groups in the last government than they are in other lawsuits. These are the same classes that control... [[Up front.]] It's the same categories... [[Up front.]] These are the same classes that now govern... [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] It's the same thing - I'm sorry. [[The president calls.]] These are the same classes that now govern the city of Reykjavík... [[Take it up: Shame on you...]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u44	The president asks why. Senators making noises in the council hall as long as it's OK. There's a senator in a pita.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u45	[[The point is, it's just rude.]] No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u46	That's what the President requires.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u47	These are the same categories of directors in Reykjavík, who are cutting down services for the elderly and the desperate. Today, there is not even hot food for the elderly. Then they come here from time to time, saying: 'We who have the interests of the elderly and who are desperate.' [[The president calls.]] All I'm saying is, let's get the fuck out of here. [[Take it up: Do it as often as you want.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u48	The president would like to state on grounds that they will contact all those who have been asked to attend the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u49	V.E.G. President. [[Take it up, try to top...]] Top man, I don't know who's gonna be top dog. The chairman, or acting as chairman, of the Party of Independence or the Supreme Court. The prime minister here today who declared it to the invalid who stood at a protest stand outside the General Assembly Hall that their demands would not be met in part. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, he directed words to those who have upheld their cause in the Assembly Hall, who are members of the administrative body. V.E.G. President. I wish for the highest. Secretary of health and the highest. The minister of education will be here to see if they can come to the meeting and participate in a discussion about the Kingdom News and on the contributions to the Hospital and Health Organization, and they will be postponed at this meeting until it becomes clear if they can attend the meeting. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u50	A respectable president. I'm going to thank you for making arrangements to call at the top house. Secretary of health and the highest. Secretary of education. It was also called the dog. Chairman of the budget board. I know I'm supposed to be on the radio with her. 7.30 a.m., but I believe she's in the house and she can come to the room, for example. When I give my third speech in financial terms, and I'd love to. But then I want to talk about the hysteria that seems to be taking hold of itself in society. It was not enough for us to witness a most embarrassing riot. The prime minister today, who somehow declared both world records and European records and then generally battles with everyone, with the opposition as well as with the pensioners of this country and others, now the acting council leader of the Independence Party has completely lost its way here. I think it's time we cut this meeting off.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u51	V.E.G. President. I'm in my third talk about the budget bill for 2016, and this time I'm going to discuss two particularly. On the one hand, there are various types of records, facts in this matter, and then, of course, the pensions. I wanted to first mention one of the statements that came this morning from the highest level. The prime minister and others felt that we were making him feel that I'm highly esteemed and that I don't know if we're making a record. I don't have enough sports in me. But I began to examine this first record and what it was -- I know what motivated us now. We've got 33 changes made on the emissary, the green economy, college, college, high school, art and culture, community-based programs and programs, law enforcement agencies, trustrs, prison institutions, road insurance, public security, multi-cultural status, Akureyri hospital, various kinds of social matters, maternity, child care, and climate funds. These are the changes we're fighting for because we think they're important to Icelandic society and such a big deal of competition there. This record as the highest. The prime minister seems to fear that we are hitting - I began to wonder, what was the fight then? What was it that drove an independent party and a forwarding party? Yes, it does. In the opinion of the committee, we had not been allowed to experience the kind of work we do, so it would be normal for us to talk even longer. What adjustment arrangement did an independent party and a forwarding party bring in this very long financial debate? I began to look at it. There were no modifications made from those categories at 2nd. No, no. But the 3rd. Their blood began to flow, and the forward party produced only one change, which was an increase of 286 billion parishes. K. Independents, for example, were now the highest. Health Júlíusson, a Kristján to Þór independence to a financial committee, and he wanted to reduce his expenses by 3,300 million. K. In the following way, let us remember that this man is the health minister today. He wanted to lower his taxes on alcohol by 500 million. K. He wanted to lower the taxes on tobacco by 1,000 million. K. He wanted to lower his sugar tax by 800 million. K. And a tax of gasoline, about 1,000 million. K. These were the suggestions of the Independence Party to topple an additional proposal. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Thor Þór Þórðarson's son, the current vice president of the legal committee, who wanted to reduce the government's income by 6 billion dollars. by delaying a year's increase in the host tax, a sink, an increase in a sink to make more money from tourists. We could now have explained that when you look back on these suggestions that caused a 50 - hour discussion, it was so competitive that people who have such suggestions and then talk about them for 50 hours, there is only hope that there will be war in the budget. But it was amazingly read, and it was amazing to see. Of course, independence and forwardees were not fighting for the welfare system, as we saw on that proposal, either in the health system or in the social security and the work was not a major issue. The big thing was to prevent this from making long - awaited changes to the constitution. And it's measured as the highest. The prime minister fears that we will succeed. But in that case, the issues that are betrayed by an independent party and a forwarding party at the national pensioners. Many figures and percentages have been mentioned in this discussion, and I think it is time for me to turn the clock at two o'clock in the night, on December 15, to go over on what this is all about. So it is debated how much social security benefits should be increased and for what period of rise will be achieved. The government groups suggest improvement of social security by 9.7% starting January 1, 2016. We suggest improvement is increased by 10.9% from May 1st, 2015. The difference is that the government groups are going to comply with a pay number but the tailored pensioners will be on the pay scale and will not follow the example of having their social security increased according to minimal wage and not do it again. However, we want to improve not only social security by 10.9% over time but also by increasing 5.9% from May 1, 2015. It should be noted that we are talking about - if we take a pensioner who lives alone, has household supplements and special support because he has little or no income elsewhere, the individual is present today with 225 you. K. per month. By the increase announced by the government, it would be 247 of you. K. In a month, but we want it to be 255s. K. in a month, then up to 270 of you. K. From May 1, 2016, to follow the minimum wage. Now it's not a supernova. This is very modest suggestions in view of the fact that at work there are very few jobs at the minimum, so for those who are sustained through this income, there are very little money to be made. Our proposals are so fair that they can be, and they have to form an agreement here in this hall, not just to raise income or pension - making pensions again and again, about 10.9% and then 5.9%, but to make sure that all pensioners are over the poverty line. We won't make it today. This is something we must agree on. But by rejecting our fair demands and not just our demand, these are the echoed requirements of the older citizen Union and the EC of the Iceland for retrospective increases to May 1, 2015 and by improving the remuneration in accordance with pay. By rejecting this fair requirement, an independent party and a forwarding party are making a political decision to increase in Iceland's inequities. We are willing to beat the world's reputation to bring about the unfair arrangement and to laugh in the face of a prime minister who is threatened by threats and terrors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u52	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. There are two things that make me think. On one hand, I felt very interesting when it came to things. A senator traced the changes made by independent persons during the last terms of the budget bill for 2013, i.e. in the fall of 2012. That was most interesting to me, since before the proposal, there was still a rush. A senator and his current highest. Minister Kristján Þór Júlíusson. Hv. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Ingagjörgdótir mentioned some suggestions that directly oppose public health policy and subject to a reduction in sugar taxes and other interests that are generally remembered as the widespread tax reduction which basically accounts for all the things called tax losses. However, it is no less interesting when you draw it into the context of the current terms and conditions as the highest. The minister is here, that now the senator who proposed a reduction in glucoc tax in his day should be a health minister who has not been able to discuss the proposal of shopping and is a member of the government who has spoken for a reduction in glucoc tax. This further encourages the requirement for the minister to come to an interview at the council, this review. A senator, because the Icelandic government's public health policy and its policy is the highest. Health Ministers do not seem to rhyme with each other at all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u53	Madam President. Yes, it is. How remarkable it was to realize that large donations are the highest! A health minister to change when he was in a position of government would have been reducing his taxes on alcohol, tobacco, sugar, and gasoline. [[Up front.]] When we put the sugar tax, I remember that it was in the heart of independence. It was as if they were special agents for Carius and Baktus. It was a real struggle. So they dismissed him, reasoning that he had nothing to do with it. That's exactly what it said. It should have been raised. It was noted that the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir had not gone far enough to achieve public health goals, so the tax should have been raised. I agree that it is strange to see that there is an enormous stake in the community on the State Radio, but the whole matter of pension is totally focused, as well as on health matters. The managers of the Hospital, medical staff, nursing staff, and some of the hospital's staff rise up and are far aware of their lack of financial resources. A health minister is not involved in this discussion. People have almost forgotten that he exists. I think we should find out how things are going at the highest level. To speak with him at the council Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u54	President. Thank you. The senator's answer. There are some examples in this discussion of double - colored people and how words and actions do not mix. Perhaps the most striking thing is that at the head of the Icelandic government, the UN's new sustainable aims to eliminate the world's poverty, which is strange for Ministers to do when it comes to distant continents and countries, which are about signing, photographing, or something else, but at the same time, the preconceivably uses its political influence in order to maintain poverty in Iceland, as it is done through the constant opposition that the elderly and the microgerms will be restored to their progressive increases. I think it's very important to keep these double-minded people in line because this decision by the government parties is nothing more than a determined desire to maintain a measure of humor, inequities, and poverty in Iceland. You don't really want to believe that it is such that people act directly in their political affairs to maintain poverty or even to increase it, but you are particularly concerned about position. A secretary of finance to poor people in Iceland after he found himself at a meeting earlier today with the poorest people in Iceland, making war between the elderly and the poor and the lowest paying groups. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u55	V.E.G. President. Many face groups of people in such discussions. For example, some have given the impression that if we receive refugees, it will particularly suffer on pension recipients, which is the natural priorities of this government, which affects all the people in Iceland. We've been over it so many times. All these adjustments later became reality by a new government. The cost of a requisite tax was lowered so that we can earn less than we should be from the tourist stream. It was reduced tax on sugar, etc., but the least of it was reduced hunting costs, so they're turning into token charges. There was a risk of extending a fiscal tax, and the income tax is being reduced, especially for those in the higher income fields. And then to dare as high as you can. The secretary of finance, to come and give the impression that micro-and-age pensioners get fair correction on their terms is some kind of threat to low wages in Iceland. This is just wrong. It would be natural for him to confirm that only those requirements of 6.6 billion would be financed. This is exactly what the government's income is growing during the present year because of increasing the use of goods and services. It's simple.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. I would like to express my heartfelt appreciation for all the highlights presented in the talk. When we consider the main issues related to the budget talk, I appreciate that the government's serious intent is to starve the Land Hospital by 3 billion so that it can operate normally, as the hospital officials have noted, that is serious. It would be possible in itself to repair money supplies, as the government has been doing in the cases she refused to meet the government's opposition to the last budget. It could be done. It would be bad not to set up an increase for the Kingdom News now. But there's a reason. A member of the council agreed that the most serious offenders in the trial are now in terms of micropigious and pensional patients, because we are talking about in the second place in recovery, and then decision to pay for them in the coming year? There are decisions that are harder to take with money later, so I appreciate it so that there are many of the most serious offenses on the bill, although, of course, I do not leave the Land Hospital, and I do not give up the State Radio because there is some indecent evil behind it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u57	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir That's why Ögmundur the son of Jónasson answered. I agree completely with him. This is the most serious offense, for it has to do with the implementation of tens of thousands of Icelanders. Of course, it is so commendable that not all pensioners are now in the lowest relief and long ago. But there's a considerable number of Icelanders who only have progress from social security. This is a group living in poverty today. If there are any close - to - heart caregivers, they need to rely on them, relatives, and friends, who are both completely prerogative and deeply humiliating, especially in the long run. We do not do much more with the growths we are offering than suggest that people may be able to buy dinner for Christmas. I'm so incomprehensible that people who went out here before the last election with the mesmerizing promises of dress correction, and I don't know what hasn't really returned anything. The diet came through a provisional law from the former government. What they've suggested is an increase in social security for those with about 300 of them. K. In a monthly pension fund, the worst of all the pension workers with the lowest terms are completely left behind. That's what we fight, and that's what we're going to get changed in these discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u58	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. A senator on its emphasis on the matters of disability and the elderly and restitution that the government's opposition is convening with the proposals of recovery action to what has been agreed on in a general labour market. Hv. A senator there referred to numbers and to their low level and how hard they were with the most income - oriented people. On a radio show this weekend, the highest level was mixed. The secretary of finance sees in this discussion and the chairman of the United States, or so. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason took the matter up at a council this morning. I'd like to hear some food. A senator's decision is whether to proceed at the highest rate. The secretary of finance is part of the debate now requested at a council on the law. That's what it's all about. A senator at the highest. The minister of finance and chairman of the Independence Party were justified by their declarations of the government's success toward microplicity and the elderly? Was he justifying the keeping of those outside the arrangement that has been negotiated in a general labour market for recovery and justifying the strict observance of these provisions, these contributions, these donations, social security payments from a government fund? What's the food? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u59	V.E.G. President. My assessment of this is that it is precisely the purpose of justification to shun or deny a large group of members of society a fair bargaining to match others. I said earlier today in answer to what. paritaprevir My daughter, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, said I hate this ministry of the minister. However, the independence party is not alone in this discussion. Hv. The chairman of the legislature board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, had a meeting on a financial committee to dig for a number of invalids and what to put up with and exaggerate stories about the number of them on the land so that they needed to be corrected. The director of the Insurance Agency, Stefán Ólafsson, had to correct this, I was going to say nonsense, but that may be rude. But then it was being promoted that in this country there was a group of people who were abusing the system. This is the case that the independent group and the forwarding party have joined together when it comes to people who are suffering from chronic illness, disability, and illness. To make the shoes seem like people lying into the reform system is a nasty way of speaking. We should not allow him to thrive, for it undermines our welfare system and demeans people who are supposed to be protected by our representatives here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u60	A respectable president. The president informed the President earlier that he had arranged for the government ministers to be here with us. I wanted to enter the President for the success of that expedition, whether the Ministers, other than the Foreign Minister, have entered a house to take this discussion. But if the calls from the government are no greater than that there is one present, but the other nine are absent, I see no reason to continue the discussion. If the government has no greater interest than the completion of the case so that she did not trust to attend a discussion, we should just continue the discussion tomorrow when the Ministers are awakened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u61	President. I trust the President will now use the famous Bell of the Generals to awaken the other ministers from their sweet sleep. I think it's mostly important for me to get here at the top house. Secretary of education. I'm going to give a speech after one of the senators, and I'm going to give a special consideration to the state of the state radio, and I'm just gonna ask for it and I'm going to insist. Ministers here come to the house and answer for the position of the U.S.U.R. I've heard today that there's no way to give away a bill from the Minister. I just want to hear it from the highest. Minister and I'm asking him to come here. I'm just ready to stand here under the sound of a bell until a minister comes to my house and I just don't intend to move.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u62	The president proposes to the senator that he abandons the platform where his talk period has been concluded.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u63	I want answers, tops. President. It's coming to the top. Minister of the house, and when is it to complete this assembly meeting? I'm not going anywhere until I get answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u64	The president proposes to the senator to leave the platform.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u65	I request that the president answer the questions of the council right now and show respect for the council and the members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u66	When those senators who have made a sound under these forces have spoken, the president will answer the questions that have been addressed to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u67	That's good to know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u68	A respectable president. There is good reason to agree with the members of the council here requesting information about the presence of the Minister who has been asked to come here to the meeting. In itself, we have not made rich demands of the stewards on which this matter should be burned and the issues discussed, especially the highest. Secretary of health and the highest. A minister of education, both of whom have very large pomp during this bleeding season, and perhaps should be here to take part in the discussion, explain the situation's situation. It was not easy, for example, to determine the exact and normal state of the case regarding the state radio. A minister of education is starting to express himself to the press on their situation that he is also coming to the Hall and having a word with members of Congress about that position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u69	Good President. There's been some serious misunderstanding here. Hv. paritaprevir The jealous son of Jónasson requested that it be well prepared by other senators at the highest level. A health minister would be brought to the council. So, what do we see? Secretary of state! True, I have no objection now to seeing the highest. Secretary of State, and he is to be commended for coming here. But there was nothing to ask for him, and I'm not going to go back to review here some good stories that could be said for this occasion but a memory here at Jón Sigurðsson and the Árni Johnsenur of her time, another story. On the other hand, I believe it is absolutely necessary when we discuss here the budget bill that, first of all, the chairman of a financial committee is present and it is not. It's natural to be embarrassed. [[Up front.]] Second, the minister who has repeatedly been asked to arrange for a word - at - least - of - word visit. to show yourself to the discussion, even if it was only an hour.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u70	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u71	President. I thank the President for giving us the intention to answer the questions of the members of Congress at the end of this meeting for the President's Board. But I'd like to add that it's normal for the Ministers of Social Security to be in the discussion, say the highest. Home and social security minister, because the largest figures we'll discuss here are relevant to the elderly and the desperate and their repetitive activities. Well, I'm sure it's a big deal. Minister of Eygló Harðardóttir is also here, and I wish a president to inform her that she is requested to be taken to the chamber. Besides, I have to say, it's a little technical that the Secretary of State is here. I remember that we've been here on the second if not on the third day to ask for a minister of foreign affairs to be here in the state hall, and then he wasn't seen because he was then the most separate meetings across the land in Skavein and on the West, and then he was gone abroad the next day, and so on. Then he couldn't be here at a council hall, but now he's here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u72	V.E.G. President. This is a massive debate over budgets, and we will discuss large mails, such as social security and health care, as well as the State Radio. It's so amazing with this government that it seems so endemic that people don't even show the color of wearing their noses and showing that they are concerned with their lawsuits and come and carry in parallels and argue for their actions. It wasn't the highest. Prior to today, Prime Minister, the fact that only a government meeting would be needed during this discussion. It's amazing. It's as if it didn't flow into that blood. Mr. President. I suggest that the call of the people in this meeting be restored, the highest. Minister and chairman of the Board of Resources requested. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u73	A respectable president. A variety of releasers have the highest power. The president has allowed us to attend the council during the ensuing loss and perhaps even years. But I do not quickly remember that the President has continued a conference on the Government budget of the 2nd. without the discussion. I think it must be an entirely isolated example that the chairman of the budget board, which carries the changes here for a material discussion, is not present and will at least have to make sure that he is here. Also, I'm sure the Ministers will want them to come here for our discussion. This announcement announced at the highest level. Minister Bjarni Benediktsson Fundament Committee that the Minister of Education would present a bill on the radio fee. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether there is nothing to define as a minister of finance to a financial committee and why he has left his minister of education in this case since he supported him in the fall? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u74	Mr. President. I want to start by thanking the highest. Secretary of State for coming in here immediately, and if you can't get them in a house before the next talks begin to interrupt the members of Congress or then an article, as the president has promised, what Ministers intend to show up here. Then, at the same time, I ask the chairman of the budget board to rush in. I think it's very strange that the chairman of a budget board isn't here, I have to say exactly as it is. Then I hope that I or other members of Congress don't have to expose the President's conference board and that the President now gives us the proper and clear information and answer the questions that have been asked for him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u75	Mr. President. You might say you don't get what you want and you don't want what you get when you see the highest. The minister of state came to the area, because this time we were senators, with all due respect for the Supreme Court. Secretary of State, requesting the highest order. The minister of health, the minister of finance, the Ministry of Social Affairs, and the Ministry of Education to discuss with them the number of lawsuits that burn on us. There's been some misunderstanding. I'd like to have these ministers in the hall, like most of them that follow, to discuss the big and big things that burn on everyone in society. We are not isolated in this discussion. The whole nation is watching what's going on. Isn't the government really going to give up anything? Will she just continue to be like a bull in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u76	Mr. President. I want to put it in the bottom end of the line. President that he will not forget the answers to the questions we have raised in this session for President's conference board to ask him to carry out the question that has been raised some of the times during the night and night. It is the question of how long he intends to continue meetings so that when he intends to be so kind as to answer the repeated questions here, he will also answer us as to the length of a meeting plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u77	Mr. President. It's true what's happened here. It's now 2 o'clock. It's all right in itself. There's a meeting at my place. 8:30 a.m. and not setting a good example for the council not to be on wake law, i.e. that you cannot rest for at least seven or eight hours. Well, that's just gonna be the case. It's painless on my side. V.E.G. A minister of the State is here if he wishes and can answer any questions asked, if he is confident to do so. Now I don't know what's going on at government meetings or how things are discussed, but I thought these matters were specialized. The subjects discussed here are the National Hospital, the issues of the elderly and the desperate and the affairs of the Kingdom Radio. I don't doubt that they had some discussions in the government, but how deep the minister trusts to be in that discussion, I don't know, but there is nothing worse to have him in the chamber listening to. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u78	Mr. President. Here earlier this evening, the senator who sat on the throne of the highest. Mr President, we've been doing the highest. Attention to the health minister. Then let me ask you the highest. A full-blown president, gave him the highest. Is there any information about whether he would like to attend? I'm asking the highest. A president also: Does he feel that it is a myth if anyone wants to talk to him? This may be one of the last nights we discuss the budget. For example, what is "woe "? paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson, acting council leader? He's just going to sit half asleep in his seat without driving to the top. A health minister here to see us? Is he proud of his minister? I'll love to hear what we're talking about. A senator will tell you below. I'm warning you what to do. A senator has full control of the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u79	A respectable president. I agree with the highest wishes. The health minister will be here and we'll find out if he can't expect his arrival. On the other hand, I want to come to the highest level. A minister of state to defend himself and to consider a great deal of fear that he has arrived and settled on the Ministerial class, and there is no need to make the slips of his knowledge of the matters under consideration. He can't do any worse in a discussion here than he could. The secretary of finance managed this morning, which carried so rampant letters and then gave a lot of nonsense, and all over the South, with increases in the improvement to the pensioners that there was a search for the same thing. I offer the highest. The minister of state is welcomed and convinced that he cannot have as much insanity as possible. There was a secretary of finance here this morning, no matter how hard he tried.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u80	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to apologize for perhaps having raised my voice more than is worth right here under the board. I don't usually make comments on special frontal calls, but when you talk over a speaker, I really don't like it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u81	I didn't? I...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u82	- I wasn't talking about you. [[Up front.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But because of him. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson asks me as a member of the council model I'm pleased to be here, however, I can still tell that I'm not a member of the councilman right now because Guðður Þórðarson is in the house. I can, however, tell you what. A senator about it -- there's a class president - the last time I knew it was the highest. Minister of health to the north of a funeral. [[For the record, he was here tonight.]] -The last time I checked, he was in the north, because I was asked, but I don't know where he is. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u83	The President would like to inform us that an invitation has been made for the Minister who was asked to come here for a meeting with the chairman of the legal committee but as a matter of course. U.S. senators see them down. paritaprevir Gudle Viðr Þórðarson of the house, vice president of the legal committee. [["No, he's the Chairman of the House of Independence."]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] He's the vice president of the budget board. Senator. As for the meeting hour, the president intends to continue the meeting for a while because the night is long this time of year and we'll get out of it as we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u84	Make it clear, Mr. President. That's no answer, Mr. President. It's a lot of attitude, and it's just presumptuous.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u85	Mr. President. I don't find the night especially young, I feel old, and we who have been here for the last night won't have to stay up here all night to discuss some stuff that can't bear daylight. It may be seriously in this regard to discussing these matters into the night when people who are interested in observing the discussion are unable to look at the ethic because they sleep at the sleep of the righteous. I would have liked to have a minister in this room to have a word with them in very small ways how they can argue that the elderly and the desperate should not be the same as the rest of the country's earners of compensation. I'd like to grab hold of a branch or a short fist by Björgvin Guðmundsson. That man, by permission of a president, is a zealous spokesman for the elderly and desperate: To justify his inaction in the affairs of the elderly and desperate people, the Council has resorted to deception at the General Assembly. They say that the benefit of the elderly increased by 17.1%! In order to obtain this number, they add up increases in the last few years. There is also an increase that is not being carried out but that will be first introduced in the following year. How do pension workers today benefit from the rise that comes in progress later? The 190 you receive is given to single older people. a month after taxation. When they do not have enough money to cover all their expenses and have to skip drugs or medical visits or even food purchases, do they find any comfort in increasing pensions in 2014 or 2013? This isn't an acceptable statement. This is crazy talk. In fact, some years ago, the unions in unions are not at odds that they have had a huge rise, so they do not need new increases. There is no 17.1% increase in pension within the picture. The number of pensions increased by 3% last January. And there will be no more increase this year. All talk about other things is deception. This writes Björgvin Guðmundsson. We have seen recently in the media that many of the support workers there have improved the interest of older ones and the desperate ones stepped forward and wrote on these matters in support of them. And elderly ones and poorer ones themselves have been very powerful in this struggle, knowing that nothing will happen automatically. You need to follow through and speak for your cause. I think, fortunately, breaking through the national soul now is the kind of injustice that when we are finally done better, the economy is about to step, these groups do not have enough silence at Congress to meet the demands of righting them. It is often taken in upon them to compare the situation with those in society who are in a low - paying position, who may be on unemployment benefits, and who are in a bad state, when it is justified by the fact that others do not ride all too hard a horse from their own terms, it is reasonable that these groups can only hold back their demands and be content with their share, that is, the compromise. One has seen in the media an excellent witness. Secretary of finance and others in this council hall. It's a letter. It's a letter. Of course, the prime minister to the nation today and to our members of Parliament had remarkable issues. This underscores the reality of that town, and it's kind of frustrating to know that there is no greater understanding of this group of languages. It is not as if there were no players at all, although there were certainly a deed to take off quite right from the start of the current government. Perhaps as this discussion goes on, the financial bill and the income of the state's funds are working to a fuller degree. The various factors are coming in here that may not appear to be as great as expected, except for what the state has been paying off in income, in hunting costs, in fiscal taxes, in energy taxes, and in general, those that have been dropped on high income workers. Then this is not a good witness to the right men with forwarders who, as it were over the years, hailed. At that time, the convention was often a support center, and you really don't know who supports whom. It is as the saying of the saying; the lame leadeth the blind, or vice versa. This has become so that no one can rule the country and be responsible for the well - being of public funds and financial priorities for society, welfare, infrastructure, health, and the priorities of society. Of course, it is the difference between right men and left men that left men put in the priority of the nation's consumption, that everything is done to put out a safety net for those who fall overboard in any way, get through serious illness, get involved, have an accident, lose job or stamina in some way, and for those people who have served us through the time with their contributions to professional life, have grown up, and have returned so seriously to the community, paid their taxes all their lives, that they can live under a secure night of life, as they say. But it is so far away that our older citizens can enjoy a secure night of their lives. Not the ones who don't have money in bank books. What they are invited to a basic pension, and what people are offered for disability, is just less than 200 of you. K. ... todisputit tax. Knowing who knows that these things are not acceptable, and people who have contacted you say, " I can't survive this unless I live very close and have been able to cover my own housing. ' I have my own home without debt, and that's why I can be very thrifty with endors between months of hard work. But do we want a large community to have no resources, to have uncertainty about spending more money on medical expenses or something that will require additional expenses, or just spend as it is now before Christmas? It is filled with older people and micropunchers who want to make their loved ones happy but cannot because their financial situation is just that way. This is not said to have someone, what can be said, a scathing tone, and some emotional conversation. This is just the cold reality of many people. I'd love to go to the highest. Ministers of the government would see fit to revise their efforts not to improve the quality of the poor and the elderly back in time during this year as others have.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u86	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for the talk and its emphasis, especially on improving pension insurance. I'm curious to know why. A senator's opinion of the highest. This morning the secretary of finance traced the fact that there was no reason to ensure the equal position between pensioners and low-payers because the pensioners were not working and because, as a result, he seemed to claim, was such an increase in the number of young reformers. Now I was just investigating the numbers on this case, he said. The total number of pensioners in this country was 2014 47,700, including 32,000 pensioners who were 16300. Of these 16,300 microenergy pensioners, only over 1,500 under 30 years of age, men and women, and there were no way of seeing disintegrating who are immature because of their development, who are psychogenic, or who are mentally retarded. It's the highest theory. Secretary of finance that there are special material grounds to punish all 47,700 pensioners because some of the 1,550 may have chosen to become invalids, such as the highest standard. Secretary of finance said to stay here this morning, doesn't come to my mind. See what? A senator of some kind at the top of the test. Secretary of finance?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u87	Mr. President. I felt that this conversation was very strange and very bad for the general discussion when it was the highest. Ministers go down to suggest that a person can order to be an invalid, that there is a choice, that a person can cross on being an invalid. Indeed, there is always, indeed, everywhere in all lands, a group of microorganists who need help and who need some assistance and help to get back into life and to be active in life. There are other mental illnesses and other things that can be treated with support and thus help people back to life so that they can be active in society. But I don't have the opinion of the highest. Minister of that subject. We are to improve the quality of these groups in order to secure and present the basic development, whether it is micro- or elderly. You can't compare people in the workplace with people in this position. These people are in a very different position. There is no way to earn extra money, and it cannot be used in the same way that workers in the workplace demand a right and a better dresser, such as by strikes. They do not have the potential, as do workers at work, for further education in order to strengthen their jobs and earn a better salary. These groups are not comparable in so many ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u88	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I wanted to ask you why. A senator following what she attributed here and correctly pointed out, which, of course, supports reasons to do well with pensioners and to make sure that they are never inferior but the lowest wage. As it did, they do not have the same criteria for improving their jobs as others, and they do not have the choice of jobs, but they also have to check that microenergy pensioners have the income that disability pensions provide for them for a long time in their working years, not just after working years, as in the case of pensioners. When people are talking about motivation, like the highest. The secretary of finance talked about this morning, not only is it similar but it is also a number of ways of supporting the money money can provide for those who need it. I wanted to ask you why. A member of the body who has followed the circumstances of a pensioner and the people we both know at this crisis would be able to look at it if they become so again that they will see a conflict between minimum wage and improvement, as it was in the years up to 2007 when we went to the government and corrected that. [[The president calls.]] That space brought great damage and high cost. What effect does it have if it comes back to reality?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u89	Mr. President. Hv. A senator did well to see that individuals who become poor early in life who may have to be young, relate about their late 20's, rely solely on disability money, are in a very different position. They will do what most people do; start a family, have a roof over their heads, and build up and participate in society. They do not have the same potential as do people in general to do more work, to find more work to support themselves, to have homes, and to provide everything that comes from having a family, children. These young people are in a different position, and of course, there is no record that those early in the world of accidents are not guaranteed for safe implementation. Hv. A senator also made a difference in salary and improvement, and it would be dangerous if the difference took place over and between sides. I believe that the benefits or basics of older citizens and disability must not be less than the minimum labour market wage.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u90	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, like many other members of the board, insists that disability and pensions have been followed by the government's immediate presence. Now I want to ask you why. A member of the council whether to deny that by a planned increase at the end of the year, sensibilities and disability pensions were not accompanied by public pay development in the country. That's what I'm talking about. A senator to argue that this is true in spite of the Ministry's calculations, the calculations of those in these cases, and other members of the Society, even the North American Community? I don't think that anyone has refused it unless U.S. council members say that this increase is being carried out with the country's pay cycle. I'd like to ask who, too. A senator, because she has been told that the government groups are more concerned with the interests of micro- and sensibilities, whether it will be the percentage of the decrease in that number compared to the rest of the cases of the last government she supported. I have a feeling that neither health nor pension matters have been in a special priority for that government. It would be good if she could tell the degree to which the defect was in that category compared with other lawsuits.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u91	Mr. President. I'm not going anywhere because the terms of advanced pensions and disability have not gone up like the rates in the labour market. It reminds me that the average labour market development recently is 14.1%. Old age and disability pensioners do not achieve that rise. I think it needs to do better. We can stand here and stretch back and forth forever what 3.6% last year and 3% on January 1 translates in kronos. These are some thousands of dollars, and they don't cry for it. I think it was discussed earlier that uncivilized disability benefits since May 2013 have increased from 162 thousand to 172 thousand. Is that something to cry for and be flaunting here? I think the reality is that the terms of these people are a disgrace to us as a community no matter what we try to say in them and compare with what the previous government did with everything, all other circumstances when the land was completely on the side. At that time, the government's priorities were that basic pensions would not be impaired, and these improvements were to be raised handsomely when better times went by and then that evil right government came and turned around completely on that subject, not going to improve the rate of older citizens and disability.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u92	V.E.G. President. I was not talking about how much or little things are and what is righteous or not just. I was simply asking, " Is it wrong for these groups to have followed a pay development in their country? ' Hv. So a senator, despite the fact that all numbers say otherwise, firmly and consistently denys it. All right. I'm not gonna fight about it anymore. Hv. A senator also discussed in his talk how we could do much better if the government had not given up all money to the state funds. The taxes of the last government were much bigger and all kinds of income stocks, and it is claimed that we will continue to give up money in the present government forever. Has the income been any less now? Have they not increased? Can it be said that when we make more money each year, we are giving up money? Why would this happen? Why are they increasing? I guess it has something to do with the economy. Doesn't it have something to do with the tax system and the business interest in investing? Why are they suddenly interested in it now? That would be interesting to know. Of course, it's not about giving up money. It's about how we use our income companies, that economic and economic regimes are in a way that we make money to the state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u93	Mr. President. First only in the case of older people and poorer ones: The percentage increase in wound - low compensation is, of course, considered very small. They don't eat percentages, either in these groups or in here at the General. I certainly came into the world where the state had given up a huge amount of money. There is evidence that about 140 billion more income is now in the financial budget than it is in 2013 and that there is an increase in expenses. If the Bank of Lands, for example, was not exploited by the bank today, what income money would be available today, and might it be necessary to rely on some irregular team? What remains of this income waste is beginning to vomit. Of course, tea stocks have improved. We look forward to much currency because of increased tourism. Is this to be trusted in the long run? Is that in your hand? Now people continue to give up income and are not using this upturn for benefits for infrastructure. When we go back downstairs, what should we do? What, then, will the state fund do when various income institutions have been cut down, which would have been good if economic growth were reduced and the swing back down? Everything that goes up will eventually come down. You should know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u94	President. I want to start by thanking you for the highest. The minister of education is in the house, and there are some important questions I would like to learn from him. I believe it is of utmost importance. Minister of Congress informs the state of the case in which the Minister tried to come through the government, but appears to be firm. I'd like to ask the Minister if it's obvious that his proposal for the radio fee will happen to the council. If not, what will the Minister intend to do? I'm not from the fact that there's just a more serious matter for the Minister's proposal, and I think it's very important that it comes before the council. So I would like to ask the minister if he believes that there is any way he might find a way to recommend the proposal under the whole U.S.R. despite the failure of the case from the government. I got a little hit earlier, I have to admit, when the procurator of the Independence Party informed us of my section that the Independence Party did not salute the Minister's proposal. I just think it's very sad, and I hope that we council members and members of my body will be able to encourage members of the Independence Party to impress them to ensure that this important change will be part of the budget. I just wait and draw conclusions because I haven't got any answers, but if the fact is that I'm not going to be able to secure a location ground for the State Radio, we're looking ahead to a very serious time and a very serious position for the TV. So I think it's very important that we use now creative thinking to solve this situation. I'm ready, and I know that everyone in the smaller part and a great many in the greater part will also support the Minister in finding a solution that is the only acceptable solution and that the radio rate will remain unchanged. Perhaps you can find a solution that is somewhere in the middle of it, which we in the smaller section thought was what should be set up for the council. I want to hear it from the highest. Minister if it is impossible to find an intermediary route, an intermediary in this case. We all know the situation on VOLV, and we know that one of the main reasons for the failure of VOLV to make ends meet are two factors. I don't think RUSB has ever had all the nose tax, which I think is a serious violation of the administration. Of course, if a tax is taken by the public, which is an earmarked institution, such as VOLV in this case, the tax should not be used for anything else. Then the pension debt is very heavy on VOLV. I'd like to ask the minister if there is anything he can do to ease that burden on the State Radio. Then I would also like to ask, " Is there any goal in being a government member to stop running a multicenter? ' Is that government policy? Why didn't the Minister's case be handled? It seems that, not just this case, but many others as coastal ones of the government. I'm worried about a lot of things that haven't been taken out, and that's why the budget's pretty full of holes. That's not good. It is not a good government, and it is somehow not in the spirit of conservatives to contribute funds that are so gloomy and defective. I would have thought that it would be in the spirit of the Independence Party to provide sound, trustworthy financial laws. I can't say that what's happening here with the radio fee is in the spirit of it because it has been announced that the local minister of the seminars wants to do things one way and that everyone has assumed that the radio rate would be intact. But now, on the final meters, it seems that it will not be. I'll have to ask the highest. Ministers sincerely whether it is not the sincere will of the Minister to ensure the absence of the radio fee. I know that most of the people I've talked to are involved in paying a hundred times a year's extra a year to this radio charge if there's no impairment. I would also like to ask: How does the Minister feel about the fact that a tax that we are being taken from our tax to protect the state radio, so that not everything is used on TV? What kind of management is that? Does the minister feel acceptable or in the spirit of conservativeism that goes out for being firm and clear? Then I'd also like to point out that you've just cut your bones so that you're wearing the clichés and metaphors that have been widely used, for example. No further deterioration is allowed on the health system, the State Radio. Bones have been cut, much better, and very many qualified personnel have been admitted. I would like to wonder if people in general are not aware of the role of a Kingdom publisher. One part of the role of a Kingdom publisher is to nurture our tiny or tiny culture, our tongue. The role of the State Radio as defined is also to be able to offer detailed, deep - seated news explanations. The role of the State Radio is not necessarily light culture from other countries. You can get all the TV programs you like on Netflix or something, and of course, we all agree that it really needs to be put on the TV today. But it is possible to do so. There have been so - called Sarpur, where older programs can be obtained. However, the situation is still so that for some reason the Government Radio is unable to afford to have a proper database of data available far back in time, e.g. things that are very easy to attend and that are not dependent on authorual rights, such as news reports and reports. You cannot get that far back in time, unfortunately, and indeed just very short back in time, perhaps three or four, five months, which is very bad. RUSB has not developed a position that has become one of the most popular news systems in the country. However, the law does not allow advertising on the website of RUV, and it does not make any special pay for it, so RUS is very narrowly tailored. Many people agree that the State Radio is leaving a commercial market, but then it's a natural way to secure a business ground in another way. In fact, cutting the radio charge is making it absolutely impossible to take RUSU out of a commercial market. I think it's a huge return. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What exactly is being done offering Kingdom media to ensure a normal balance in the media market? The second strip has many people who want RUU of a commercial market, and as I entered it, the Internet is not an ad, which is in itself quite fine, but it must ensure operating ground so that a proper Web site can be run by the National Radio. The radio must be able to preserve the immense cultural value there is. You are always concerned that when people speak things down that have influenced our culture and are as important as the State Radio. Sadly, RUSV has not been able to care for her duties properly in the country because there were very many of the world's headquarters laid down because of lack of funds. Either we're going to have a medium that works, which is the medium of all the people of the country, and then we'll have to secure a operating ground to do so, or we'll have RUS submerged. I received a letter from the government radio loyal friends. As we would expect no one to miss, there has been a great campaign by the State Radio in the joint advertisements to remind us senators to protect the RUS. I'm gonna read it, it's just a few quick, short commercials. I think they say more than many other things: Councilmen. Do not be afraid of the cornerstones of Icelandic culture. Secure the National Radio a secure budget. The government radio unites people in human and cultural culture. Here we go. Let's promote a community. All councilmen. The national government radio is the cornerstone of democracy and culture in the country. Let's never forget it. I love State Radio. I challenge the Generals not to cut down the radio charge any more. All councilmen. The people love the State Radio. We didn't cut the radio charge. All councilmen. The people depend on the State Radio. We didn't cut the radio charge. Under these advertisements, a lot of people I know are writing. A minister knows well, and he has great respect. Many artists and well - known individuals are deeply concerned with the radio. All I have to say is that I became a little depressed when I received this message today that it doesn't look like I'm gonna be able to secure a real economy ground for the National Radio. The requirements for resections that have been carried out on Kingdom News have been indistinguishable at the same time and have not received the income it takes to properly drive the medium. We have lost an amazing number of programmakers, and this has been a very difficult year for the Kingdom News. We've also lost great techs and all kinds of people who have made RUS to the society that has appeared to us, reflective of our society, and that's necessary, including the rest of our society. on us. It's all crumbing up, which is unfortunate. As in many professions, it is equally important that those who take up complex aspects of society that depend, for example, on our needs or on the rest of our community's larger units are explained and have sufficient time and support to be able to provide them well. It is a symbol of a society that draws closer to immorality if it does not have a powerful hold on the fourth power. It's just that way. It is so important to maintain a fourth power, and it is a very painful thing for us and our future to pull out the multicentered teeth that are technically seen as the most independent of all. So I want to challenge the highest. The Minister of Education giving us very clear answers, and I hope he answers my questions and I get clear answers. I challenge all members of the management team who care about the state media to help us see that the radio rate will not be impaired. I challenge the senators to listen to all those who have sent us messages over the past few weeks not to cut this price and to ensure a foundation for this national interest. As supporters of a commercial market, I want to see it, I know a minister agrees with me on that. But this is not possible. This is not the right way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u95	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a well - and - substance speech. I welcome her in every respect, confirming what she said would likely be more important for taking that course to the highest level. A minister of education has described interest in going, which is that the radio rate will not drop at next year's convention. Rather, it will be a mere sum of money. I want to use this opportunity to give my best commendation. Education Ministers for the declarations, as well as for the vast political solidarity that has developed in the government of the Kingdom News among all categories. It's not likely at a time like this. I'd like to abuse this counterweight to encourage the highest. To impress this matter, a minister simply says as if it were said in a foreign language: 'Be as ball as you like.' It is available for us to support him, so he does not need all 38 members of the government behind him. He can count on 25 votes of the government on this matter, and he will need only seven more to secure more of the matter at the council. [[Up front.]] I think I can claim, among the anti-continent parties. On this occasion, I also want to keep talking more about it. A senator on other things we can do to pay for the operation of the Kingdom News. One is to take the highest. A minister of the word when he correctly mentioned that the ohf. substitution was probably not successful and it was a natural thing to turn it back into a state agency. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It would give them a chance to take those pension bonds back where they belong and mix them with other government pension bonds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u96	The President reminds us that the matter is Icelandic.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u97	President. I just want to agree with what happened in some sort of microbubble incident. paritaprevir The Árni of the year Páll the son of Árnason to minister. It's about having free forms here at this time of night. I'd also like to agree with this Ohf. Form. I think it's very important. That was one of the things I forgot to enter in my speech. This fact was very clear recently as to the magnitude of the problem of this project. I believe that we reevaluate that form. There's nothing wrong, if it turns out something's not working, to explore other ways. I'm sure that's a problem. I think it's a lot at stake that we need to find a way to be at peace here to secure a strong, good, powerful Kingdom publisher or the media. I sense that in this case, many in the government side of the government are united by the highest standard. Minister. I like it because I know that not only the Minister but also many members of the Parliament and certainly ministers of the State Department agree. Perhaps we can simply achieve a wide degree of agreement about finding normal and productive land on this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u98	A respectable president. I agree with what. Senator. I think it is worth our serious consideration: Who is known in that of all the government institutions, all the public societies that have been created for the purpose of pension commitments only in one case - they were actually included in the case of banks at the time but then fell back to the state of their bankruptcy - and so the State Department should carry the debt of life? The Ministry Department's chief office could never carry its own pension bonds. [[Up front.]] The General Assembly of the Icelanders could not carry the commitment to pension for members of Congress and take away their money. I think there's every reason to think about this very open and it's natural with a government agency like this, to play a role, that it's just a government agency, and these pension bonds simply return to the State. The government is either wearing a pension debt for all employees far and wide across the entire state system and best equipped to assess the risk of it, to evaluate it. I would think that would be the most reasonable way. You're right. A senator says, and I agree that it is the sincere interest of many of us to support the Supreme Court. Ministers and wisestmen in the state radio administration systems. We all agree that there is a real competition in the media market. We see a real danger in taking over each media after another. We need a real competition. The Kingdom can help to provide it. All of this can work out well with one another.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u99	President. It is vital, too, to realize that when it comes to the role of VOLV, it is far more rigid and more important to our language than to the movement of other media. It's very important to keep it in place. This is especially important today when we see the decay of our tongue. It's just that way. The strongest response is to make sure that there is a good access to the correct Icelandic in the media. Reading Internet media is shocking. For example, I get graduations on radio coverage, and I feel that our language has deteriorated dramatically. There's a basic foundation that needs to ensure that the State Radio is in order. The news on its web is very badly written and obviously not tested. I find it shocking that the country's media is no longer reading. The role of VOLV is very well defined. It's an institution that's coming to us. It is for us to ensure that our main role in RUS will grow and develop in rhythm with the time we live today. Sadly, that is not possible under the present circumstances. Let's do something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u100	President. It's a strange situation. This council is a strange place. We've requested the presence of the minister and here is Minister of Education and Culture. It is a special joy, but he does not participate in the conversation and is here to listen. That's good, but this is a strange situation in view of the fact that we don't really know what the situation is in Iceland's government. It has been observed over a long period of time. Ministers are planning to provide a bill with a cut-off. Then the weeks go by, and we hear about the Minister at a government conference and last on the stairs outside the Board of Directors today where he still doesn't want to say that it is impossible. We are in that position here, i.e. The administrative point, which is listed as supportive agents of the Kingdom Radio, is sharing it with the highest degree. Ministers to support the State Radio in this regard, that it has been shown that we will submit a change in the income section, which is said to the unit, on the one hand, and on the budget bill where expenses are made. Then we'll make sure that the Minister's proposal is made to the Generals in spite of the government's obstacles, i.e. The material proposal of the Minister. I expect then we will resolve the actual support of the council to the matter. Of course, this is very important. I want to pray. A senator is wondering with me what really is at stake if this expedition is not taken to the highest level. A minister goes in, but he can't get out of the Council with it, but because of the council, we can make his proposal as a change. What is at stake if this suggestion cannot be carried out?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u101	President. There's a lot at stake. First, it is at stake that we will simply continue to see the Kingdom Radio getting weaker. For example, it is possible to find a way to take the RuV out of a commercial market. If we could do that, I'd be very fascinated. I think it's important, because money has caused some hostility between the media. I'd rather have her for business and competition. There's news coverage and other things. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Oh, guys, don't you have time to talk? You guys are so loud. Stop talking about this. I'd like to state that there is a why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson and what. paritaprevir Empressing Níelsson who's been gasping so high.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u102	We're drunk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u103	Then get up and get drunk out of sleep. I repeated questions to the highest level. Secretary of education. I'm sorry I didn't get any answers, especially because I, along with others, wanted the Minister's presence. I think it's very serious that a minister won't answer me or any other members of the council. I sense that the minister wants to communicate, but I don't know why he doesn't. He's afraid of something. Perhaps the minister will come to the rosary and express himself on the subject and make a statement. I challenge the Minister to stand up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u104	President. I encourage the President to let the Minister on the rosary if he wishes to express himself. I think that would be a good idea if we were to do that now that we're well involved in a discussion about the state of the Kingdom News. In the friendly environment here in the middle of the night, I think he's pretty safe and he can be safe to discuss his position on the matter. I think that would help the discussion if he did. I'd like to see the discussion and the counter, and the answer. A senator's insistence that it has been shown by government directors of the State Radio that with unchanged financial bill and a decline in radio bill, the commitment of the media's legal duties cannot be carried out. It doesn't make sense to the government. They're quoted as being the head of state radio. I expect the reason to go to the highest. Just as a minister wants to present his case through the government, so he agrees that the duties of the media are actually at stake. It has been observed that what is going to happen is that the next project of the management directors of SpV has to take a major cut in 2016, run a number of employees, destroy a program, both TV and radio, and discard the four - year service contract won in agreement with the Ministry of Education. That's what's really at stake. This has been shown in some of my relationships with the highest. Secretary of Education that he has no plans for the review of the legal duties of the media. [[The president calls.]] As far as I can see, a budget and government leader is in danger of the State Department's legal duties. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u105	President. This is a serious situation. It's just that the Minister of every institution under him is responsible for that institution. It is serious if an institution cannot carry out its legal duties. Therefore, the minister must simply find a way to enter this matter. You wonder if anyone in the government is trying to break his leg. Minister. This will not help to strengthen the state of VOLV or the highest. Secretary of education. I don't understand, because I'm not a fly on a wall at a government meeting, which may be better off, since I've heard that there are a lot of hairs. I know the Minister cares about culture. I know. If the minister does not stand up and ensure his vision - that is, of course, the former Supreme Court. One prime minister who was told that he had a straw window and that he would just regret the goals and not yield. Now I'm challenging the highest. Secretary of Education to stand up with RUS so that they can fulfill their legal duties. We will stand by you, very many, and also members of the members of the council. I challenge the Minister to be bold and bold.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u106	V.E.G. President. Earlier tonight or earlier tonight, I wished for two of the highest. Government ministers would come to this discussion, on the one hand, the highest. Ministers of health and the highest. Secretary of education and culture. V.E.G. A health minister to answer for the surgery to the hospital in particular, which is the assessment of the representatives of the institution that at least 3 billion were lacking in order to allow the land hospital to drive, as is called. This is naturally very serious and incomprehensible that we do not have a place to speak at the highest level. Prior to the completion of this discussion, a health minister, unless the government has a perfunctory plan to address the government's wishes on this matter. What the hell? Well, Minister of Education, since he is now here at the Senate Hall, it may be minimal that he will listen to what is being said, for I have a feeling that he is not going to participate in the discussion. I would have thought it natural that he did so, and then he joins the chairman of the council's left movement ◯ green offer, which attracted the attention of the Supreme Court. Education minister has communicated with the press, that's normal, and that's good, but, of course, he should communicate with the Council as we discuss the issues of the institution under his direction. [[How can you think of that?]] [[Up front.]] On the other hand, I respect it at the highest. A minister of education to come to this discussion and listen to the viewpoints we have to offer. First, I want to make the words of mine that came out of my mouth. In the meantime, the chairman of the left movement ◯ Green Pronunciation, in effect, says that if there is no plans to lower the radio charge, there will be a massive resolution on the TV in the next few days. The sails need to be summed up. All sails need to be broken. The program needs to be reduced and cut down, and it is shown that, if it does normally, the State Radio will be able to fulfill its legal duties. This is a serious situation. I think the funds have to face it all. I don't understand the evil that prevails with the State Radio, and I called him immoral malice because he's unexplained and all that is evil. That's how it happened to me. I've said it, I've said it here tonight, and I've said many times that I've frequently been very disagreeable with the State Radio over the course of time, and I've also mentioned that it applies to all of us at some point. In fact, in the latter time, I have been very at odds with many things that have gone hand in hand. Disclosures on very careful employees. I'm not going to mention names this time, but careful, independent, critical partisans have been removed, and I have not understood any of these decisions in any way other than personal decisions. I'm telling you, there couldn't have been a problem in the past. There was a violent conflict on the State Radio, a very violent conflict, it knows why. paritaprevir For example, the Helgi of Hjörvar from his family history, and I do so myself, myself at the Kingdom News for 10 years 1978 to 1988. There were often violent conflicts, but they were not allowed to pay back their beliefs by word of mouth. They were sometimes made to pay for it in another way, but there were frequently issues within the Kingdom TV, where, at times, a great empire of the spirit was brought together, that's right, but it's a novelty that I've felt was from evil. I mention it to emphasize that despite all of this, despite the disagreement I have had with various decisions made within the walls of the United Kingdom TV in recent times, I want to watch and see the benefits of having this institution, constancy in Icelandic culture and the media environment. We shouldn't throw her away. I haven't been through much of the media report and recent council reports, but judging by what I've been looking through it has made me feel less than I expected. I don't think it's much of a redness, I have to say. In fact, I have at times felt that the topic of State Radio was based on the feeling that they are ablaze in a million societies. We're 330,000, we're not in Britain where the BBC is. The decision to make advertising money to the State Radio is based on that. Either we put off advertisements and put out the sails for the entire program, or we raise the pay. We'll see how that works. That's why we have this commercial environment and advertising. So in the 1980's, channel 2 was set up as well. It's just reality. Then it is the other, and we should be able to unite, to place perhaps some clearer rules on how this income - power tool is applied, and to avoid the benefits of programs and things that we are often critical of. That's something we have to do. We also need to take up a discussion about the future Kingdom message. It was very indiscriminate in its time to make the State Radio a part - time community, a government partner who is kind of a bastard. Participation is an odd thought in my mind, a business about things, but when the object is all alone and beneath one end of one minister, it doesn't serve the role we're going to share in. It won't. This is a way of removing the Agency from the democratic umbilical cord to be in control. There's another thing that I drew attention to, and I want to take advantage of the opportunity to talk at the top. The Minister of Education is in the conference room, and I think it matters what happens in the state radio wall in the future. Does it stand to take all the flowers and privatize them and take them into private business? That was the case in the 1990's and also in the 9th century, how far to go. There were men like my fine companion Hrafn Gunnlaugsson who wanted the Kingdom News to be like a museum, not produce material, but take it alone for exhibitions, as a library does with books. I was completely opposed to this because the State Radio has to have nuclear functions, a core that knows how to work the way the Road does or does on its own close parties, which can make a bridge across a glacier in a week like this, as it happened here, and was famous for several losses ever since. It's a long discussion worth taking on. But I appreciate it in the highest. A minister of education who has come to this discussion and has given us the opportunity to promote our views and to make it clear that he has the support of the government opposition to the demands and plans of a financial committee and someone in the government to cut down on the State Radio. [[The president calls.]] We are ready to stand on this watch with the highest power. Minister of education and encourage him in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u107	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 465 police pay, from Birks Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. A letter has also been received from the Department of Industrial and Business, where request is made to provide a written answer to the application for this request. 263, investigating a case at the Contestant Control, from Guðlaugur's pool of Þór Þórðarson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u108	To answer these questions, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers, Social and Housing Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u109	A respectable president. We've been through a lot over the past few days and weeks whether the improvement in social security should be increased in the same way as the national labour agreements for minimum wage are expected. V.E.G. The minister of finance discussed this in the radio show explosion yesterday and announced that changes are not to be expected in this regard. This is of particular interest in the fact that we have heard from individual members of the government that there are serious doubts about the way the government groups are following in this matter. But the highest. The secretary of finance went further and said, with the permission of a president: ▪ There are also people who are in the full - time ministry, wake up early in the morning, and work all day long to get in and out of their lives. There is no more between those who rely on the benefits. I find this a very peculiar comment in view of the fact that people who are in a pension or a disability pension have no choice of waking up in the morning and working for themselves. In the case of the elderly, people are confined to pensional age, and in the case of microenergy pensioners, people cannot earn a living. I'd like to ask the highest. Treasure Minister: What is the meaning of this comment? What is he doing in the conclusion of the discussion, trying to create some wolf spray between people of the lowest salary and pensioneers, trying to give the impression that there is a threat to those who work full - time, because that is what can be determined by these testimonials, if pensioners get a decent and comparable choice? [[The president calls.]] What can be said about this recommendation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u110	Mr. President. What happens now during the New Year's season is the full increase of social security in the country and, therefore, will increase by 9.7%. Added to a 3% increase from January 1 this year, it is clear that this 12 month period has increased beyond the general pay development in the country. Then there are dates in collective agreements that can lead to the immediate improvement of this stairway and which group can outrun. But in this context, it is extremely important to realize that there are people in a job market who are not much better off. But at the same time people with full - time work are still talking about improving and raising. Why should this matter? It's hard to get into the head of a group that's important. The increase in the number of scarring is e.g. become an independent, unique problem and subject in Iceland and elsewhere in the North countries as well. We can be happy that the number has diminished, but it is a real problem. What's going on in Iceland? All too many young men get stuck outside a job market after they have dropped out of school or have run out of work for some reason and gradually end up in disability because of their spiritual illness. We have failed to support these groups. We have failed to support them for their new activities or in the medical system to cope with their problems and restore them to active members of society. If people dare not accept this discussion, they are simply hypocrites. That's all there is to it. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Those who don't have the guts to take this discussion, but this is how it is. What I wanted to say is that it matters for those who get stuck in this position that they see the possibility of improving their interests by becoming active members of society again. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u111	A respectable president. V.E.G. A minister doesn't have to blame me for the dangers of young men who have fallen out of work or school. In the time of the last government, we set up an amazing variety of resources for that group. The government's first mission. A minister just eliminated all those options. He himself has arranged for his associate minister of education to close the schools for people over 25 years of age in the course of book study, and this could be done for long periods of time. It's a special solution. But it may well be at the top. Ministers of finance think that he is like Jesú Kristur, able to give sight to the blind, and to cause the sick to take his bed and walk, but I don't think he can. I think he has to face the fact that, of course, people are desperate for health and that people are older because of their age. He is misleading the discussion with these comments. I must ask in return. Has he guaranteed more of the Independence Party? Is Ásmundur Friðriksson alone concerned about changing his mind? [[The president calls.]] All the rest of the council members will walk in the whip tunnel, no matter how high. Will a minister reverse it, a duplicating pensioner of 6.6 billion in the current year, and a 5.3 billion in the next? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u112	Mr. President. It would seem that we were somewhere in the midst of the crisis, that there had been a lot of persistent inflation and a cutthroat atrophy, but fortunately it isn't. Since the start of the government, the inflation has declined, and it has been ever low, which has provided enormous financial gain for employees and a high financial gain, in fact, that there will never have been a higher and greater gain for Iceland's history than in 2016. The discussion is very different, as if we're taking up the standard of living here. The members of this group should read the members of the community opinion of those members on the welfare committee and objected that efficacy is the condition of community assistance. They should also read the Björk Vilhelmsdóttir, who died a few weeks ago about the importance of such things. The organization opposed the ability to demonstrate efficacy, that rural communities were permitted to make it a condition for social assistance to be effective in trying to get back to work. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] You guys went against it. Then you come here and talk like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u113	Mr. President. The language of two Albanian families has been discussed in the community over the past few days, naturally because it includes two families with long - suffering children who have severe health problems. Of course, the deportation of these families has given rise to a strong response in the community. I am absolutely aware that we do not expect the highest. The Minister of the Interior State, however, asks us about the system we live in, a system we live in at the Council, Ministers, and Ministers, a system that we expect to serve our purpose in a good, human society. We're not supposed to be slaves of this system, we're supposed to be backwards. I'd like to ask the highest. Whether it feels that the system that offers that these families are expelled from the land serves the goals we have agreed on by validating the United Nations Children's Covenant and legally establishing the same covenant in 2013, where all children have the right to live and to maturity, and we have to do what is best for our children. I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of whether it believes that the current system serves the objectives of the children's covenant that we are in this room will probably all agree that what we will do in our legislation and in what the Ministry and government agencies will do, whether it is the highest. A minister said that some adjustments must be made, and if she is going to promote the change in this system, we will not send such sick children out of the country. I don't think that's a reason, any more than when you come to the scene of an accident, you're going to help a child, even if he can get other children. [[The president calls.]] There's no reasoning on this. As individuals, do we not need to rethink our responsibility as a community?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u114	A respectable president. You're hoping you'll ask. I was one of those senators. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, who put in charge of the legalization of the child's contract during the last term and have a very clear understanding of its bounds. Here's a question for the system itself. I think it's important that we keep considering whether or not the rules we've created apply to the project they're going to do, and now we're going to proceed to a review of all the foreigners. Because of the particular situation that happened this weekend, you're absolutely right. A senator cannot intervene in such a matter, and it is unfortunate that the matter had not been addressed to the decision - making committee, so it is very sad. On Friday, I wrote a letter to the National Institute of Iceland and the Red Cross and requested that, in view of the revision of the law, be reviewed how things were being done when children would be treated specifically and how they would be served, because, of course, I, like a whole body of Congress, need to understand how things are going before you. I don't have any information about such factors from day to day, but it's very important that all the clockwork is clear. Therefore, I asked for a response from the Foreign Institute, especially on whether this was a rule of purpose and what the change would be needed to do so. I also wrote a letter to the Red Cross, which we have a contract with, and based on it, I made indications to the Ministry, and I also requested that the Red Cross do the same way with the comments he thought would improve in this system so that we could continue developing the rule.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u115	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. Of course, I'm glad the plan is to review this procedure. I know why. paritaprevir Dr. Konráðsdóttir Konásdóttsdóttir is also planning to take this case for granted. A top-of-the-art Board of Education and I like that. What I'm really worried about in this case is that we've been watching the box too much, and we've forgotten our primary duty, which is to get people in need and especially children in distress from the children's covenant. As a result, I'm glad to go over the matter, but I want to ask the highest question. Minister if she sees any avenues, unorthodox, to review these cases, whether she sees any ways in the present situation to be replaced.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u116	V.E.G. President. I can't talk about these things in any way today. The important thing is, of course, that we have an obligation to follow the rules that apply at any given time, at the same time, we need to be sure that they are done in the right way, and of course it matters. Then we have to look to see if the rules achieve our goals, which must be what it all is about. I think that in this respect, and I think we've seen it many times in the past, and we'll see more of it in the future because this is a case that's very intense now, we know it as it is, it's very important that the Council is part of it all. I have therefore requested that I present a verbal report on these matters to the president of the Generals. I hope that it can be at the end of the week, but I'd rather expect the council to stay until the week. The General himself thus makes his voice manifest, but of course, we are always working on the basis of a valid law by the Council, which we are required to enforce.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u117	Mr. President. I'd like to ask about the budget and the work force on the budget bill, but I've been amazed at how we do it. I might have wanted to believe that when I was just out there in society, and not at the Parliament that the work was more professional. I find it very interesting that a minister who puts in a bill then makes extensive changes in his own bill. While there are still some incomes to be added in October, you can ask if they were not to be boarded for espionage and used for some uncertainty. We have also seen an enormous number of adjustments now, and there is really nothing in many cases where people came to the conclusion and not to any other person, there are no presupposes or priorities. If we take donations that will go, for example. To work on community projects, I ask: Why is financing not provided through a national parish program to make decisions and priorities for the member countries? At the same time, we're agreeing to the public financial bill where we're going to take it, we can say, cause members of the council, and enter the Ministry when it comes to these little teams. I wonder if there's the last chance here to argue a little bit, I'm not going to tell friends and relatives, but right up to that. I think this work is very special. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to see if he agrees with me that it's not good to bring up some changes that are probably 10 billion now, that were more than 8 billion before the arrival of all kinds of unexpected teams and whether he is proud of these devices, both on the part of the greater part and in the government. The museums went into the Ministry during the last term, but now we're taking them back to the budget. [[The president calls.]] Is that okay?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u118	Mr. President. I have long served as a spokesman for the addition of the budget and the handling of the council on a financial bill. In recent years, I believe that we have successfully improved our work and have a bill for public finance to take even more progressive steps. It is very important to realize how much of the budget is calculated at this time. It is only natural that, from the time the budget is submitted, and until a new national forecast comes into the house and people are better aware of where the country is heading for a change. before a financial committee settles the matter. Then, on the other hand, the secretary of finance in itself cannot be responsible for the results of a large proportion of legal committees, although the government gives proposals to the Committee on Changes. This time, the majority of these changes were calculated sizes. National projections provided a basis for reevaluation of the income part, and the consequences included: The one we've been discussing this morning to improve the rate of social security, and it needs to be taken into account because of the development of collective contracts since the budget was taken care of. Then there are all these little things, or those small ones, in financial sizes that are here and where in the budget bill. I agree that it has often taken too much time for the council to think about how they are being arranged, but the council is free of charge. The Senate will not be able to predict how matters are handled in the Hall after the proposals come from a committee or from other members of Congress. Certainly, it is not unique that individual funds take on non - currencies in exceptional cases. There are so many examples that the day would not last to cover all of them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u119	Mr. President. I'm going to say I'm disappointed in this. We had a set of work that I thought we were more happy with, and then we're going back to old-fashioned politics. I think it's also a concern that may not be of much concern but that's at least Four factors involved in changing the proposals to establish a budget or to prevent the next year's conflicting halls. Who will decide that any four groups will receive special treatment, that is, these, and not some others? I'd have thought the first thing to do would have to be diagnostic, men to get their business in balance, they'd have to be the Ministry of Control with this kind of tail cutters or what we call it. I think it's very serious, and it's not exactly a role model. Then we are even criticizing the institutions in front of the drive, and at the same time, one of the highest court officials in the litigators'case is running the travel fund with posts, where we are always taking things into the budget. My work isn't good enough. I hear what's at the highest. Minister says, and I'm sure he agrees with me on many matters, but I demand more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u120	Mr. President. I can agree with many of the things being said here, it's important not to have random decisions, and especially when it comes to older collections, it's my vision, I've recently discussed at the council, that there will be a standard form of agreement with the institutions that can be held out in order to stay within financial warrants over the next few years, the old man will fall down with time. Finally, I'm going to use this opportunity to call attention to something else that is that we were always caught in the discussion about the budget. For example, who has 2nd? that this time compares the results with a government budget adopted at the General Assembly in midweek, June? Who's thought about the line of charge, how it's evolved from what we decided? Where's the debt heading for what we decided to do? [[The president calls.]] We need to focus our attention on this area, the long - term development, and ask ourselves: " Is the financial bill advising for the changes recommended by the Parliament for staying within the boundaries that we have decided before? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u121	President. I would like to draw attention to the fact that my perception has been that when I have been participating in the Senate Committee's work on new laws relating to the affairs of foreigners at the highest level. A minister is interested in creating a good law code and a law code on that matter. But I have to say, and I think it's important, because now it's the thing to do that the trustees are being sent to Italy on the basis of the Order of Dublin. Italy is a country with so much of the refugees who arrive there that the United Nations Refugee Fund has directed people to countries not to be sent there. Italy and Greece are countries together with Hungary, which the European Union proposed to replace the population of capitalists, i.e. the overflow refugees or the trustees. I find it very strange to send inmates to Italy. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister how, for it is not in the spirit of the work and the discussion we have had at the Council of Congress. I must admit that I was very disappointed when I realized that I was. Now it is quite known that the Albanes, who come here and, for example, the Americans are sent right back, and their affairs are not discussed in detail on an individual basis, but they are simply shoveled out of here, as they are now being carried out by 20 policemen just to take children in the middle of the night and put in rented flights. It's not in the spirit of what I thought was the highest. A minister wanted us to treat the inmates of the area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u122	A respectable president. We considered it a reason - and I told it here at a council hall - to specifically review the activities of Italy's affairs. It was prepared with a report and key experts offered to evaluate how those who came from Italy should be treated at the time of the reimbursement. In view of what has been happening in neighboring countries, and in accordance with the current procedure, the result of this report in Italy was that it is safe to send people to Italy, for each isolated case. This is the conclusion of those who know best. It's not some conclusion that comes up to my head, it's deliberately done. At the same time, the conclusion remains that they do not send people to Greece. In addition, as we have discussed here at the Assembly Hall, the Foreign Institute has not been sending people to Hungary. We feel that it must continue to be examined in a much more thorough way and given reason to do so. That's what this is all about right now. However, there is always a need for constant evaluation. This is done, as I say, in line with what is done in neighboring countries and in much agreement with them. This report is now on the Department of Internal Affairs as I know it. A senator knows. When it comes to the way things are done when people are being sent back, I think it's also a thing we somehow need to have more on tables, how they're done. Now I'm not just looking at these latest cases, but in general. I think the procedure, the procedure in moving people out of the country needs to be clear. In fact, later today I'm going to have a meeting at the Ministry just because of this, so that people will be more aware of the best way to do this so that they have the best confidence in the government and the public in the country because I think it's very important that we try to build it up better. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u123	President. There is no new news that trustrs are being oppressed. In 2008 and 2009, it was common for people to be caught in the middle of the night and sent to Greece. People who actually had not formed any contact with the Icelanders because all those people were stored in Fit, and they were the most successful people to take them to shelter night, and no one knows the outcome of these people. I just want to reiterate that we have to make sure we're being humane here. For a long time, it has been said that these matters need to be adjusted, and we are learning new and new. If it had not been a journalist who found out it should be carried under cover of night, no one would know what kind of methods were used here. I wish for a minister to take the bait, not today, not after a week, but now to make sure that this does not happen again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u124	A respectable president. This group of paintings is heavy, we all know that. We are always talking about people, individuals, and it places an important responsibility on all who operate in this system. I think everyone must realize that. And so it will be, I'm sure, in the near future, because there's a growing weight in this discussion, that we'll have to keep reevaluing this rule together. I don't think there's any doubt of that. We can only see this from what is happening in the countries around us. I think, indeed, that even if people feel that they must always do better, and I can quite agree with that, they were still trying to take steps to make this system more open so that they can understand what is being done there. In nature it is very complex and very complex, like a whale. A senator well knows. I think it's up to all of us, both the minister of the local seminaries and all of those in this business, inside and outside, to try to build confidence in what is being done, and not to assume that men are trying to go beyond what is necessary, because that's not the will. [[The president calls.]] That's not why this system exists. [[The president calls.]] I think we have to try to put our hands together to make sure that it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u125	A respectable president. It's right next to the highest. The Minister of Ministers that when we legalized the Children's Covenant, we believed that we guaranteed the rights of children like the Albanians we now address. It is also true that it is good to develop and reevaluate the code of law and to rejoice that she is going to bring in the parapolitic community that controlled the new foreigners. But that's not enough. A solution to the Albanian children's affairs, all of us disagree with being expelled from the country. As chairman of the largest anti-continental party, I'd like to say to the minister that I am confident that the Minister of the United States is open to the Council. The primes, cases, or other matters that the minister would have to run for this purpose will be welcomed here. We've often been united in speeding things up here, doing them fast and well, and I think that there's a solidarity in it on the contrary, as often as before. But I'd also like to mention in this matter of the Syrian family, which was due to deportation. I would also like to ask the minister: " Isn't it really crying out with one hand to receive 500 Syrian refugees and to dismiss them with the other hand? At the same time, we have written the point of view into the laws and rules followed by the Foreign Institute and the Commission. Do we, perhaps, need to do so? Do we have to say that while we're accepting this 500 group, we don't take special action against Syrian refugees and that they can count on what they're looking for at at the time?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u126	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for understanding the language class we're discussing here. I'd also like to say that even though we're sometimes dealing with something special, we have, at least While I've been here in a Senate hall during this term, I've always had a good conversation with the General on the cases of refugees in general. I think it's very important that there's a good connection between the Generals and the executives when it comes to such delicate cases. That's especially why I hope we have a press conference this week. Hv. A senator spoke of the Syrian family who had been sheltered in Greece. On the basis of the rules, the results of the National Institute of Iceland were in a way that it could not be considered in Iceland. That case is now with the Board of Overseers, and it is very important that they have found their way there. I think that we will find conclusions in the case, as I get along, very early next year, soon toward the end of January. Then we'll see what the decision to make is, and I don't think I have any idea what the conclusion will be, that we'll see a more targeted decision in time. But I can totally understand the thoughts of which I am thinking. A member of the council said that there was something wrong with the idea that while we receive the Syrians, the rest of the Syrians would even be disappearing from here on out. To show caution, I do not want to go beyond those words at this point. I'd like to wait for the decision-making committee to see what they'll come up with and what they'll look like.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u127	A respectable president. Some cases have developed so that the nation expects the minister and the Council to solve them. The way this is done may be done, not the main issue, but the other. I believe the issues both Syriac and Albanian citizens discussed here are of this nature. I don't think there's anything going on with the political parties here at the Council to join us on such a mission. If the highest. The minister of the state believes that it should be done at another time or in other ways, I am not here to make any disagreement about it. The key point is that the affairs of these specific individuals will be resolved so that all of us can be happy with ourselves and with us as a nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u128	A respectable president. It is absolutely essential, however difficult, not to intervene in a current trial. It can't be in my mind, and it won't be so while I'm here, the minister's job to do it. However, this does not prevent people from thinking about how to proceed with the mistakes and learn from the errors, or the baits of the law, let's put it that way and make the adjustments needed. Then I just want to say at the end that all decisions made will affect individuals, they will affect the rest. Therefore, as soon as we realize the problems facing individuals, we need to look to the whole body when making such decisions. I'm sure we'll do it when we get there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u129	V.E.G. President. I keep silent in my second speech about the 2016 budget. One of the things that were discussed before the weekend in the discussion of budgets was the extra money that fell into the middle of conversation. They complained a lot about this as grueling practice and so forth along the streets, as if their teacher's contract of 1.2 billion were forgotten. It can always happen, there can always be failures to work on money, nothing to do with it, and no trouble to correct it. Also, an agreement between unions and state was established in connection with disabled people's affairs. It was a real joy because, as everyone knows, it was a great deal of trouble for the rural population. It was said that there was a lack of 1.1 billion people in order to negotiate the event. Of course, we all know that the group of paint was eventually transferred to the local community by agreement and debates over how well it went. Farmers have not been pleased with that. That has been a heavy burden, and even many societies in the fall spoke of their wanting to return the media to the State. But last week, an agreement was reached where money was placed to deal with this problem. That's a good thing. However, there is one thing that is not positive in this contract, and NAPA, which is controlled by personal help, is taken out of parentheses. It was legally decided that this form of service should be one of the things the disabled could access, and it has shown that there is a tremendous advantage for those who enjoy it. Over 50 people enjoy this contract and service, but somehow it seems to be Eva's unclean child. It is my experience as a senator after only in recent years. Nobody wants to take care of this. The rurals will probably have nothing to do with this, and look at this as a financial burden that I recall Halldórsson said in an interview after this contract was signed -- but he's talking about human beings. There is no need for anyone to be misled to see how this has changed people's lives dramatically. We at the council have seen a tangible notice when our deputy, Freyja Haraldsdóttir's daughter, has come in here. If she didn't have this service and this help, she couldn't do it, she'd still be a burden at home. Halldór also said that in Norway it took ten years to implement this project and that this was so brief that there was no experience in it, but it is already experience with this and personal assistance has been used in the high lord's day. Parents and other caregivers have carried out their assignment. And what has been the result, e.g. for caregivers? Yes, they end very many self-saving disability, e.g. The mothers of the children who spend most of their time at work. People are not treated when they reach 18 years of age, they go into disability because many of these mothers have become cripples themselves. Their whole lives have been dominated by the services of their disabled children. As I said before, I rejoice in the agreement, but poetry is that money is not expected, it's not a small amount of additional projects. It's a projection to work on this, but, of course, it's not supposed to be doing it, it's supposed to be part of a community and state project, and this service is supposed to be there. These people have spent years fighting for this rights, and in the 1970's, all of us delegates were invited to a demonstration of the rights of disabled people in the United States. Three of us came to see that film, and it was very effective. It also showed how much it changes people's lives to have access to this service. But we are always thinking about money, it's so expensive, and it may also be why we have not agreed to the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people. We've pushed him back and forth in the council, and we haven't had the manhood in us to finish him. That's sad. Those who have studied the languages of disabled people and disability know that it was a huge blow for them to realize that this service was not to be taken into account. It's a wet barrel in the face of people who have expected to continue this service. It's called a experiment project, but it's supposed to be a induction project; it's only supposed to be a spontaneous service for those it can use. Not everybody can use it. It's not for everybody. But there are a lot of people who can do that, and as I have said, it has changed people's lives. They can go out among others, they can shower when they want, go to entertainment, engage in professional activities, and, use proben, it can be studied, exactly as it has been observed that people have completed MBA studies in Iceland's University after they have received this service that was not possible before. Then it creates a job and enables the reformer to work and pay taxes and duties to the community. They can rent themselves and lead a normal life like everyone else. I just hope that this will be revised and accepted, or if it will not be at least given the promise that it will remain and the uncertainty that has prevailed in this series of languages. I gave a talk about it last week that this class, NPA, is a perfect stand. People don't know anything, and they haven't been able to fulfill their contracts with staff. It has become so that some get used to more than hundreds of thousands because they have passed. This is not welcome. We cannot invite people to live with this. For one thing, my talk made it clear that the city of Reykjavík is all running around the year, and no one knows anything, and no one gets any answers. It is not enough to let these people, not like others, live in complete uncertainty, people who have fought for years to live normal lives. It is not only those users who benefit from this but also parents and guardians who, as I said earlier, have made every effort to let their children go into institutions. There are many stories that instead of putting children on institutions like things, people just worked hard to care for them. It has taken a tremendous amount of time and effort for these people, who, as I said earlier, have even made them wantant. I did not intend to extend this discussion on the budget, and I did not intend to give a second talk, but I felt compelled to discuss these matters. We need to do everything very carefully in this series of languages. Statistics are extremely limited in the case of the disabled. I asked at the council the other day how many disabled students apply in high school and how many graduates complete their studies there. There's no such thing. I also asked how many disabled persons have undergone sterilization operations, and there is no information about this, even though we know that many have been forced into it, even misleading, disabled people. We need to clean up our business and do it like human beings because we're talking about human beings. We're not talking about things that are getting in our way, people who need our help in order to share fully in the community are part of the community. These people take part when they get help. I hope this is going to be adjusted and user-controlled personal aid set up as part of the deal between your community and your country. If they are not to enjoy this help, what will their communities do with them? They need to have some resources for that. The people don't disappear, they're there and what to do with them? Install it to institutions, is it less expensive? No, it's proved many times that having people in institutions is no less expensive. Of course, it is suitable for someone, and some people are in a position where they may have to be in institutions, but others do not have to, and they can live normal lives with this help and can hire themselves instead of letting strangers work with them and even live with people they do not want to live with. It's a delicate group, that's perfectly clear, and that's why we need to be more careful and even more effective when we do it, except for the natural fact that we should let disabled people form this course or at least be in charge of it. This is shown in a reassessment published that the MPA project is in operation. As a member of a welfare committee agent, I've been studying these matters, and the project board is just one hand against another. People don't get any answers from the Ministry of Health. For example, rural communities are very complaining about this and others on the project board that they are not allowed access to information from the Ministry of Health. Many months have passed since a request has been submitted to the Ministry of Health and the leading task management without any reply being received. It's also quite preordainable, it's a lousy scheme because we're talking about people of flesh and blood who just want to live with us in the community. This attitude is a complete lack of respect and disregard for disabled people. It's about time we fixed this whole thing. It is also disrespectful to those who live, to people's lives, to feelings, and to human dignity. Everyone wants to live with human dignity. V.E.G. President. I hope this is going to be changed, and then I'm going to look at the deal that was made the other day and I came in for the budget, 1.5 billion more, inside being the MPA project. Then I hope that we will have the manhood in us to legalize the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people at this council. How shocking it would be to know that we do not care! The way all of us in the community treat disabled people has come to look down on prejudice. They are outcasts who have lived in discrimination and excommunication for decades. All you need to do is read in comments to see it. There are more than one. Councilmen who get bad words They also get disabled people. You can see if you are drawn to reading comments that are written on when it comes to disabled people. Again, I reiterate the request that we correct this mistake. MPA is to be part of this agreement and a legal option for disabled people to live on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u130	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his emphasis on NPA because I think that NPA is the key to so many things. Of course, there is no perfect solution or perfect instrument, which the public can create, but the MPA seems to be a key to solving many of the problems we have created for people who cannot travel around like us who do not need help. What I was interested in a report of violence against disabled women who came out of 2013, and we discussed recently, is that part of this violence and oppression experienced by disabled women is that they cannot go about free, free living their lives, free to make decisions about their lives. This, in turn, has the power to weaken their situation. However, the MPA method allows people to participate in society on the same terms as the rest of us. Therefore, I believe it can help disabled women and disabled men to live with dignity on their own terms rather than on the basis of some system that assigns them when they can do this and that. It's a humane approach. What I wanted to say to you. A senator is that what I'm afraid of is that we started on a test project in this field, but nothing seems to be approaching the place to make this a real choice for people. This was shown in the case of the minister of inquiry recently. So I ask why. A senator what he thinks we can do in here. Why don't we sit down and try to make some kind of budget for the long term of this project that we can all agree on transnational? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u131	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Yes, that's what we're supposed to do. As in any other matter, we are to sit down here and try to form a parapolitic agreement on how these things should be. But this is just one part of respecting the Convention of Human Rights, Constitution, and so forth, that these people get full access to society like the rest of us. It's about the ability to live a life of its own. This includes better health for these people. They live among people in less isolation. Many disabled people become socially isolated and just become like a burden, not having the same self - respect that everyone else does because they view themselves as a burden, a burden. I have heard stories about people who have had this service, but in the past they were so dependent on others to help because they held on, did not pee for hours, and then became ill. NPA has also increased gender equality and reduce enough violence. I agree that money is the most important thing to do. I have a feeling that the reason this has not gone beyond the facts is because it's always looking into the money. We keep looking at them, and then there's a question about setting priorities. Do we want to set priorities for the sake of the public good and for those who fail? It is clear that these people are among those who are lazy in society. We see in disability improvements and other things that these people are not doing well, so there is always a matter of priorities. I want priorities in behalf of these people and those who are less fortunate in the community. There's incredible poverty in this country too. Though nothing is seen at all, it is only a fact, and many find it difficult. It's about priorities, and we're supposed to sit down, and I'm gonna take my mind off with it. A senator on that matter, finds a solution, and let the human race cope with that solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u132	A respectable president. I have a good friend who's disabled and she's been telling me how she's living in this situation. After she began describing it to me and removing the veil of some situation you don't know yourself, I agree that the NPA is the way we have to go if we are to secure people's rights and dignity. One example is that a person tries to do something small, not only to earn money but also to strengthen himself as a human, but then he needs a household help. She never knows exactly when the domestic help will come, so just because of these issues, she will be so free. The system does not respect the time of these individuals, it is thought that they can wait for two hours, three hours, four hours, sometimes an hour, and sometimes half an hour after people have their schedules. There's a lot of stuff in there. If we went through this once a week, we'd be completely stupid. People may think it's a bit of a smart one, but it's a big deal. It is a question of how we respect these people and their time. Yes, we always look at the expense team, but if they receive this service, have they made it easier to do the same? There are large groups of individuals who can give us a lot of money if they have the opportunity to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u133	Mr. President. Yeah, you're absolutely right. Has it been calculated why we're wasting money? I don't think it was calculated what they've wasted of money because, for example, people's people have had to let go of their jobs and hence not be out in the community to work and pay taxes. It's just a dot, it's just like that, quite extraordinary numbers of people, as I came into the past in my speech, have had to sacrifice a job, a career, and a normal life to care for their children. It has also been found that their parents, who enjoy NPA, are back to the job market and are leading a normal life. We are talking not only about the quality of life and the quality of life of those who need help but also about parents, guardians, and caregivers who have worked extremely hard to make their children not have to go into institutions. [[Taken out on: right.]] Nobody wants it. As I said before, it has come to pass that some people have to. It's just the nature, the disability that is so extensive, but this service has made it possible for us to get people into a job market. Among other things, it was calculated what it would be like to make a difference if we put more money in the job interpretation, remember, for example, 20 to 30 deaf people going off the improving system and in the job if they got a job interpretation. According to what I know has been calculated, it costs 30 million dollars a year to do that, but it would return perhaps 50 to 60 in the form of taxes, pay and what people give back. This is very widespread, but it is about sharing in life, living an independent life, and with dignity, as everyone else would like to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u134	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for the talk and for making this point particularly on the subject here when we are discussing the budget. I just have to admit that I didn't realize this weekend that when it came to this deal between the state and group members that I was very happy about, it was taking NA out of parentheses and it wasn't part of this agreement. I was so disappointed to learn that it was totally taken out of parentheses. I couldn't agree more. A senator that this contract alters the lives and circumstances of the people who get this deal. So it enables them to be active members of society to the same extent by having this service and so many other things that are being added, as if people can be active in a job market. Of course, it's something that we're building up as a community, not just because people are paying taxes, but because we make up in so many places when people are active in society. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Congress because it is now legal for disabled persons to complete NPA's implementation by the end of 2016 and at the same time finance. Has a what? For example, if governments fail to see the need to make a special amount of money in this regard, would a senator not worry that this might be further? How else should we be able to carry on with our work and make this a principal form of service to those who are disabled?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u135	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Yeah, that's what I'm worried about. It was supposed to have been instituted as a legal service. Then, the current choice was the highest. Social Affairs Minister for extending the test project. Clearly, it is only because they need some money. It costs money like so many other things. A person feels this way after attending a meeting with a project director that it's like one of Eva's dirty children. Nobody wants this. It's way too expensive. It costs too much. How much would it cost to have these people in institutions? It costs nothing less and is much more unfortunate for society as a whole. It's just that way. I just agree with what. A senator says that there must be a plan for money to be made on this project. Then your priorities are back on. How do we want the money in this community? There was a dispute between rural society and the State over it. The state committed 20% to 80% of the rural population. It has now been raised according to the latest agreement to 25%, but it is not to be used by more than 55. Besides, just pick who gets and who doesn't and nobody knows nothing. One big part of this thing that I'm very unhappy about is uncertain. No one really knows. We know for ourselves what it's like to live in uncertainty. There is no improvement in the lives of people who have struggled for years for this time and who spend some light at the end of the tunnel that they are always beating them back. They don't get answers, they don't know what happens tomorrow, what happens next week. It's an eternity of tension. This has an effect, apart from the spiritual impact that it has on people to live by uncertainty. I want to, as we did in the past, begin setting priorities and making it right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u136	V.E.G. President. The test project has been extended. It is better than that the project is canceled. It is also easy to put on a project by not having enough money, and later, it is so easy to strike it off. It is, of course, an extremely serious matter if not put enough money into it, since this experiment, of course, will fail. I would also like to have a word with the senator about this matter in just another context. Now we've also been talking about growths in recoverys to microenergy pensioners. I realize that not all disabled people are desperate pensioners. Some have been active in a workforce and have not even had to pay for it. Similarly, not all microenergy pensioners define themselves as disabled people, but there are certainly groups that overlap greatly. Now it's got the highest. The secretary of finance spoke of, or I've understood him so, that benefits should be lower than minimum wage because otherwise people are simply being motivated by the minimum wage to enter the improvement system, but in the same way, we are always talking about the need to encourage disability to become active in a labour market and even to establish a workforce. That's what I'm talking about. A senator agrees with me that the discussion is in total panic, and it's as if people don't quite know what they want with this group, and how should these matters be handled? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u137	Mr. President. I agree. It's a very broad, complicated, difficult group. It all seems to be in one vulture. As I came in earlier, there's no statistics about one thing or anything in these cases. For example, there has been no study of how those who have enjoyed NPA's service feel that it works for them and whether they are unhappy or satisfied with this. Of course it overlaps. It's always this amazing gnat for many that if compensation is so and then people get in there. Who wants it? There is, of course, one person who wants to make compensation, and it seems to be suitable for someone like that, but I don't think there are many. I don't think there are many people who want to stay at home every day. People would rather get into the job market. This year, we have seen news of it being helping people to help themselves. That's a natural key. People who are lazy and desperate are to be under it too. Many of these people can work full - time and make their share in the community, and they want to do so. We're not supposed to stand in the way of that. Of course, there is always a question about whether compensation should be so high or on the other side. I just think the lowest wage in this country is way too low and I've always been. We also need to look to the standards established by the Ministry of Health. What is needed in order to live a decent life? It is a long way from now on, especially disability and pensions, which are natural to abject shame, as the situation is today. I hope the government and the government see their own and they challenge these people to the rear-reaching and remuneration, since we're talking about it, so that everyone here can think for Christmas and know that they're not the only ones who care about them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u138	Mr. President. There's a lot to do, and when you've just been looking at the discussions over the past few days and reactions and things like that, you're starting to look into the politics, globalized, and finesse of the government's leadership today. An eternity of misunderstanding seems to mark the speech of anyone who has a special conversation with the highest degree. Prime Minister or write about what they think is of interest, both in the budget and in other matters. People are foolish, childish, or something like that, or they're complaining and presiding more of the money committees talk about political behavior. Of course, it is not acceptable to engage in conflict with officials who are fighting for their institutions that they simply do. We're talking about the head of prisons, the director of the Land Hospital, and others at the highest level. The prime minister is now listed, even though people said that he was describing himself rather than anyone else. It's worth remembering when people are talking about what they're doing right now and how amazingly much money is being given that they're not in any context, it's as if people didn't realize what the situation was here in 2009 when the Landsaholic was almost bankrupt. We Icelanders did not have economic independence, at least on the thresholds, and the landspians did not have to pay or drugs, but all were involved in the right community. What we left green said was that when the time came for future action, we would pass the right cause for those who failed, including for having had to take part in righting the national sink. There seems to be division in the government. Few cases come out. It is not a common view of which states to sell or which heads are to sell, e.g. The bank of the land, although it is included in the budget. The increase in money is put into assistants, counselors, and such things, so things have been more and more clearly revealed. I'm much worried about government funds these days, since the element is not growing to the highest level. A minister insists and only acts in this publication here, policy and outlook, which is, in fact, the plow under which the Minister is partly to deny. We at the government stand have made a joint suggestion that the government groups have spoken about being irresponsible, we're just probing. This may happen at any given moment, I'm not gonna say about it, but we've provided suggestions for increasing income levels and for maintaining it. It's also important to keep it in place that it's not about that, as one good man said, to stop the box at the end of the day. It's about caring for the social activities that we have an obligation to do according to the constitution and other laws that we submit to so that all assignments are under, not just some. We have criticized the government's operating policy because it's actually cutting down, that's not true. Among other things, some are cutting down on page. 92 and 93, where the primary fees are covered without irregular joints and then the cost development that is worth looking at. It is a political policy to have my share of consumption, and it will cut about 40 billion until the year 2019, as well as the schedule under which it stands. A respectable president. I don't have much time and I still want to talk about a lot of things. I'm going to finish this by saying that there are 60 to 170 billion in the cohesion and welfare issues, then down to the current prices and land production since before collapse. I would also like to step aside slightly from 1.5 billion. I welcome the agreement that the State has made with the rural communities, but one of the causes is expected to be on the budget between 2 and 3. is that there is, of course, a significant decrease in the future income budget compared with a 0.04% increase in the response rate and, of course, the taxpaying of the state funds. I would like to use my last minutes to address issues that have been relevant and that we have discussed considerably here, the subjects of the smaller ones, in view of the interview at the highest level. Secretary of finance this weekend and words of the highest order. Minister earlier when he answered a question. He says that we, among other things, failed in our health system to support the new activities of young men who are getting stuck outside a labor market and who have fallen out of school or got lost from work and who have lost disability. That's right, the government hasn't done what it was supposed to. These men may need psychological care or some other support, but the education system has been compromised, so these men, because the minister spoke of men, do not get into studies all over the country when they are 25 years old, etc. But it also turns to women who lost their jobs after mid - ages and who do not want them to do their jobs, just as professional life has limited interest in getting disability to work part - time. It's just that way. Sadly, it is not possible to compare people with those who have the opportunity to work even if they have a low salary that sucks. I think most of us agree on this, and we need to keep on trying to change it for the better. But there is a better chance to work, and there may be opportunities to make more money, but not all of us can say more about it than others, but we are here talking about people who don't have the opportunity, and if they have an opportunity, they don't want to work with these people. I feel that it is very important to keep it up to the welfare system we live in can't really care for these needs. I was also deeply grieved by the highest words I heard. According to a minister, there would be no expectations in the budget now beyond what has already been announced in terms of the increase in pay of the sensibilities of sensibilities of the senior and disability donor. In our memory, we have made a suggestion for improvement in these topics. When we're talking about an older citizen, it's very important to realize that everything is equal. These are people who have turned their jobs back to society, and we still have a considerable amount of people who don't have a pension fund. That generation is about to end, i.e. those who haven't paid much in a pension fund, e.g. Adult women who were at home caring for child rearing, late into the job market, or even not, with no pension fund. Since a masterpiece and a study of women who are especially ill has been made, we have not achieved any equal conditions in the future. We are in this for a long time. It's very important with basics, or a basic wage I'd like to say because it's a forward, of course, it's a pay for a living that people have, that we see our own character in ensuring a satisfactory choice for these people. Of course, if we are talking about what is acceptable, we should be moving forward. How much to eat and rent? Most poor people, especially our younger ones, do not have housing. All too many people are living in rented homes at all too much damaged markets, especially in the capital area. The government has not produced any suggestions for improvement in the current situation or to complete any issues in this regard. Although this government had two and a half years to recommend suggestions that are relevant in this regard, much has not been won by much. Not too many people are addressed to the founding of society in this financial bill, nor does it seem that the government or the greater part of the legal committee will respond to discussions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u139	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and its work on the legal committee. I wanted her to know if she didn't think it was necessary for the bill to go back to the committee before 2nd. Due to the reports of the large changes and corrections that have been reported, the bill has to be completed. I'm not on the budget right now, but I did it during my first term of 20033/42007. Then it was, and it had long been a rule that the bill would come as far as it was finished. The one in which we are now, which is to be the material discussion of the matter and as a vote for an outstanding article. Does the senator not realize that there are so many changes that must be done on the bill before it can become a law that it is simply right to go back to the committee, that these changes are made in the case, and then it returns to 2rd? the next time? While we're going over this point, I'm asking her if she's aware of any examples of such a failure in a financial bill, except just after the collapse when the emergency was the most severe. I don't talk about this print error or what it was supposed to be at 1.2 billion. Does she know of such abnormalities in a bill made up for the final payment of the General Assembly?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u140	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for that answer. I would have liked to see the bill coming up to the budget committee between discussions like what? A senator points out, and we talked here only this weekend. There are no pennies here, not just 1.2 billion forgotten by their teachers'contract. It's kind of amazing that this was happening, it's not just a small amount, but it's also part of the deal with rural society. It would have made one wiser to strengthen the discussion and make it more materialistic to have some testimonials. Since we do not know the final impact this will have on the balance of financial matters, of course, it is also important. I have felt that it has become a custom rather than an exception since the beginning of this government that the budget comes halfheartedly into the council. Tremendous changes have been made, and this has actually been the case since the administration, which is a bit peculiar. As we remember, then, when the government took over and the budget bill was later submitted but despite the lengthy period, the government does not seem to be able to bring it up decent, decent shapes like that. A senator noted that it contains changes in prices or updates that take place at the end of the year when certain figures or criteria were not set out earlier. This is it, despite the fact that the results were reduced when the bill was prepared, including I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u141	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answers. To me, the answers were of the highest interest. The minister of finance granted this morning, and the senator, in part, quoted in his speech that Secretary Bjarni Benediktsson's son of finance, is obviously thinking that maybe the most important aspects of the bill are still completely unafraid of the second issue. Perhaps it is urgent that we accept that counsel and try to touch them only in our discussion today. In particular, the secretary of finance referred to the development under the bill as if it were now, as well as the way it would have been expected to become in the GDP program as the same minister of finance that the same government went on in the last summer. It was mainly upon him to understand that there were substantial variations from that programme in the bill as if it were now, and I am inside the senator's office according to what she knows about it. Similarly, the CF minister explained why older men and microadolescents should not be reinvented as everyone else in the country with a reference to the fact that too many young men would be unable to do anything and go into disability. Eight o'clock. A senator is aware of the context of this section in the highest degree. Secretary of finance? What has the number of young men going to the labour market to do about raising their pensions in the country and on the other hand, whether the disability will get their positive corrections from the same time that others will have some impact on the growth of disability or not increase in disability? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u142	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. That's exactly what it is. A minister came in here, the budget development he claims has not been adequately discussed here. I don't agree with him entirely because we've talked a lot about the government budget. At least we've talked a lot about, and not just to the left green, others have done that, his publication I referred to earlier, his policy, and his financial outlook. It shows that when it comes to claiming that there is an increase in global health expenditures, such as most of the government's activities, it is of course interesting to see that the budget is not necessarily at odds with the government budget in terms of, among other things, cost-exploitation development. For the men's reimbursement, and for the men it's also very interesting to put it into context. I don't quite understand that game. Ministers to allow themselves to assume that young men choose to lean on things, but the reason is not that young people, or adults, such as I used in my speech, such as middle - aged women who don't get a job, suffer some sort of compensation. We are also talking about a career that is not necessarily ready to take care of these people, they do not want to take over. A man who has been out of work for a long time leaves for an interview or is not interviewed, sends an application all the time, and may not even get an audience. It's about a lot more than people choosing to get stuck in reliefs. It's also about us offering up a welfare system and a educational system that accepts these people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u143	V.E.G. President. It's amazing that now that the interests of state funds and Iceland produce are so high on the budget. This is the third financial bill for the Sigmundur of Gunnlaugsson Gunollson, and it is all upset with the largest budget teams, social security and health systems. There is much dissatisfaction, and the government seems to stick to its way of doing it, not entering the debate to find out what is going on, and at least to try to find solutions for it, but to be answered by a declaration of war. Now it's trying to convince a pensioner that they're very good, and they don't need fair dessert corrections like wage people and we who hear under the advice of men instead of reviewing their arguments in their language. The same can be said of the health system. It raises the governor of the Land Hospital, the Medical Council of the Land Hospital, and some doctors, which is answered by noises and when nationalized Iceland, Kári Stefánsson, is performed with considerable force, as he may be, but with full recognizable due to anxiety from the Icelandic medical system. The magazine prime minister, not with logic, but by trying to downplay the same person and bring out the criticism. He shook it naturally and did not have a problem with it, and I have suspected that a large part of the nation will be with him in this dispute. I'd like to talk about the entire state's budget, and I'd like to get better inside with refugees and refugees, and then I'd like to go to the health system. In my first speech, I reviewed that I was surprised to learn that I was the greatest. The prime minister, who precisely Kári Stefánsson's mistake rather than his reasoning, spoke of the fact that his policy of government had presented little reasoning. He said when he spoke of the budget that it was a welfare law. In my first speech, I reviewed that the welfare spending is not being increased. That is a fine summary of a blog from Indriði H. Þorláksson, who knows the terms of the estate very well after being a governor for years and then a special assistant. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon was the minister of finance. In this letter that has the heading for two tongues, it shows well how to develop government spending. I'm going to allow me to quote his words directly from where he says, with the permission of a president: THE last government laid down government spending, including expenses for welfare, about c. Fifteen percent of VLPs from previous failures, now equivalent to $30 billion, to save a government fund from a hopeless position after the collapse of the banking system. This, along with fixation of submerged tax systems, etc. It was enough that in 2013, in the fifth year after the collapse, the government's collapses had been achieved. The current government aims to improve and cut government spending down an additional 2% of VLP, now worth about $40 billion. Not to save a government fund from an upcoming problem but to save the wealthiest and most successful members of society from paying a reasonable share in society and ensuring that those who exploit the natural resources of the country in their own interest can continue to do so without a substantial price to their owner. It's quite informative because we're now in this ideal period, really going through more cuts than we did in the years after a crash. We in the United States and the Left Green, who were on those missions, had quite a share, and we were better able to hear the protests of a forward party and an independent party of their surgery, but we were like angels on oil pants in comparison with our present government. That's exactly what they're trying to achieve because we think it's devastating, and we believe that the government should be far more profitable than the current government thinks. We want to protect our public services, and we want to protect our income balance systems, including the health system and social security. Therefore, we protest tax reductions against the highest income and reduction in hunting costs and therefore protest that the State's most important sectors are not being set aside. Now for the takeaway. In my first speech, I criticized that out of the more than two billion people who were to be used in a special effort to cope with the huge tide of refugees that is now in Europe, more than one quarter of the budgeted inmates are being used. I agree absolutely that these 537 million others are being added to the seminary this year and the next year, but the funds would have had to come in anyway, and it is a rather ludicrous taste to put them in this pack of measures. This would have to have been an independent budget of action, with a growing stream of restitutants, such as Europe, resulting in devastating wars and economic inequities. Then, as a rich nation, we will have to pay our fees for it, and that is not to be done by us. When there was a change in the law on foreigners in the summer of 2014, we in the United States, VG, and Piratar decided that certain regulations would be passed that allowed to keep a list of so - called secure states. We were afraid that it would result in a certain routine payment for refuge parishes from so - called secure states. I'm gonna take the example of the Albanese case that was expelled from Iceland by the end of the last week. I understand, I've already asked for it to be documented, no Albanians have been granted international protection here, but we were concerned that this would be a routine, rather than that the matter of each subject and as an objective one would be dealt with. Two seriously ill children were among this group, another child with a genetic disease that often leads to a failure of adult children because they do not receive adequate health care and is very difficult to deal with this condition, and a child with a serious heart defect. Now you get the information that it seems that the doctors of these children have not been considered, and you wonder: Now Albania is in the list of secure states, what data collection is taking place to evaluate the circumstances of those who come here? We know that in Albania, where people still live, I do not know its scope, the so - called vendetta that we know well from the Icelandic history, and there many people appreciate it as if they are not protected by the government when other people take the law in their hands and their lives or their very next of kin are threatened. I also asked in the inquiry that I suggested how Albana's refuge attendance in other northern countries was and how much the proportion of those applications was rejected. It is not necessarily so in the current legal sense that everyone seeking this international protection should receive it, but all should receive neutral treatment regardless of what we think has not happened in this case. The society is almost on the side, and a large group of people are working on the challenge of making this decision. Now that we have put these matters to the decision - making committees, this does not change the fact that those who have the authority and authority, the general council and the Ministers, may have the opinion that the law is not followed. There are too many factors in this case that suggest that neutrality has not been determined and that the law has not allowed all to have a righteous trial that is being handled, not a list of so - called safe ones. During my first talk, I discussed social security considerably. I'm going to focus more on my health now, but if there's a chance, who knows I'm going to come in on a second talk about the pension insurance? We are deeply concerned about the Hospitals and Funds there. I'd like to remind you that what unites Icelanders in terms of the government's budget is the willingness of taxation to be prioritised for health care and that we want health care to be primarily at the hands of the government. The hospital, this important health - care institution, is now hearing noises, and the Agency is making it impossible to remain within the framework of the budget unchanged. There is no considerable financial need, and they are not asking for luxury. They are asking for vital funds in order to keep the work going. This includes providing funds for maintenance because the housing is in such a poor condition that it cannot be used in many places. It's a top priority in all the most important projects, it's not a doll and trouble. They're just trying to stop molds and leakages. We saw pictures of the Grensás department, which, in turn, are extremely dangerous and completely unacceptable to the weak as they are, severely injured, serious health conditions, provided for such facilities. That's what we're going to make for money. Then some 400 million have to be made up of the available collective agreements so that the Landspians can live up to their collective agreements. He's going to have to, but if these funds don't come up and/or that's enough of the staff, he's gonna have to do it, but he's gonna have to increase the number. Then we put in over 600 million dollars to meet the increase in the service needs because of the change in population age, and it's going to be growing, as much as it would be, so the National Hospital needs to get funding to meet it. What was the attitude of the director of the Land Hospital and his corulers in the management of the hospital? Yes, they were groping, always asking for more money, and they were using spiritual violence. You can't believe this. This is the largest government agency and one of the most important things in Icelandic society and ensures that we have emergency services and life-saving services in Iceland, where a collection of our major experts in complex curatives and health groups of various types, which make sure we can live safely here, so we know that if anything happens to them, we will get the best possible services. But it's not just the director who's worried. Just as individual doctors are coming to the magazines to express their concerns, so the doctors and nurses give out their challenges and express their concerns. Thus, government experts do not have a special need or desire to comment on the financial issues of their institutions in the media. They are people who have trained themselves and who have worked hard to care for highly specialized jobs, viewing them as their primary obligation. Of course, when a person is overcrowded, he or she feels a moral obligation to express their concerns. I believe it is important that the budget and the government listen to their concerns, accept them, and review the data that support this process. If they want to protest the case, it is better to use arguments than accusations of spiritual violence or to make a mistake about some sort of top priority. When talking about the economy of the Land Hospital, the debate should be based on information and reasoning, not skiing. In this speech, I do not have an opportunity to go along with our fear of personal advancement in the medical profession, but it came to the point of texting it into a trust committee, and then it was changed, where personalization was not given completely. On the other hand, the show explosioned this weekend that the secretary of finance said it was for private health care, at least Three stations, tops. The minister of finance was very supportive of the Supreme Court. Secretary of health. That's not what we do in the United States. We will demand that he come here and talk with us about his plans, but we will not go against the nation's will in the shelter of the night.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u144	President. I want to thank the senator for his good speech. I know that much of what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator is dear to her, and it is very important that they be listened to him. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg Ingadóttir, for she is very well pleased when it comes to welfare matters. The welfare committee. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council on the news that came up during an interview at the highest level. Secretary of finance of the Revolution last morning, where the minister directly compared those with physical disability and spiritual disability. V.E.G. A financial minister makes it appear that you can only be cured of spiritual illness and thus have no purpose in disability. I don't know where it came from. Ministers have their own record of disease, but I know a lot about mental illness. My father had a mental disorder, my blood father, had schizophrenia, and it's not a disease you can just cure yourself for, like, spinal cord injury. I just don't like it when it comes to that kind of attitude. I wanted to ask you what. The chairman of the welfare committee how the senator feels about such a speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u145	V.E.G. President. It's easy to answer. To me, it's just atrocious when it comes to the idea that people who have gained energy and have disability are not in a job market because of some kind of laziness. Those of us who are so lucky to have full - time workers may suggest that one day we may have a lack of employment for some reason, whether by accident or by physical or mental illness. Today, the main causes of disability are mental and musculoskeletal disorders. When we look at the mental disorder, there are two factors. On the one hand, we live in a very complex society where there is a high level of harassment, so if people, because of some shock or weakness, are in a mental situation, society is very difficult to deal with. It is difficult to deal with the complex demands that are constantly presented to us. And on the other hand, if you have a mental problem in Iceland, there is no great deal of business or services. You receive emergency services in a mental - health ward, and there are certainly a lot of good specialists and good things to do. But that is incomplete, especially for children. So, as a community, we're not working against people losing final energy because of mental illness, so I hate to talk like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u146	President. I really appreciate that answer, and I have to say that I thought that when I heard it, I was mistaken. Secretary of finance is speaking in this way. But it's something else that's the highest. The secretary of finance does a great deal of good, comparing today's budget with the 2009 budget when the then government was held in the hands of the third largest bank collapse of world history. I wanted to ask you what. A senator may be called barbiturates when a minister brings them outbacks, often around when they are criticized for their priorities, e.g. ... intheselaws. I've been watching the discussion and the changes and everything, and my feeling is that. The secretary of finance just doesn't have a perspective on the budget. There have been so much change now in very short periods of time, put in evidence where huge funding are forgotten, and I am so worried about this financial bill as it is and I am not respected the dates it was supposed to come in. You have a feeling there's no proper perspective on the budget. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she believes that this is customary or is a concern for her and whether this kind of work is really going to be in the past in 2015.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u147	V.E.G. President. No, we called it just after Saturday that the discussion would be postponed and the case would go back to the budget because there are so much changes in our discussion, billions of them running, so it's totally ridiculous. But for the 2009 comparison, and now it's natural to laugh and just tell us to the highest. The minister of finance may not be ashamed. I reviewed an Indriði H. Þorláksson' blog, where it turns out that the estimated cutout in this terms is greater than the last term, and who would believe that? It's to load up to most in this community. I think a minister should rather than be with this delicate comparison to come here and describe the policy that he is advising fire to their best - owned cake, he is cutting off services from all the public in Iceland, and he is supposed to stand out with his policies, which I find detestable, and defend it with reason but not with any innuendo or embarrassing defences that he is doing better than the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir who was sitting with a state fund in his arms which was not seen to be able to get through the difficulties we had before them. But that's what this government is missing. She doesn't need her chivalrous policy, no, certainly not. But she lacks the courage to stand up for her, to tell her what she intends to do, and to explain why she wants it to be this way. Of course, they know that we all have shame in this, and they dare not pronounce it. That's why they have these pimps.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u148	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I'm just wondering about the decline in the rate of the recent activity, which is striking when you read the accompanying box policy and outlook, and that's one of the things that the government and the highest. The secretary of finance does not seem to support the bill. However, the senator brought in amazing things despite a brief talk period, and I want to continue with my comments as one of the things you think about when thinking about the hospital or the hospital which other options are available. Why do we have people everywhere in these hospitals? It is not just that they have leeks, molds, or anything. Rather, we invite people to be there because of a lack of other options. To me, it seems that there is an absolute lack of policy, especially in the affairs of the elderly. There's nothing to take over and slow for the government. That is also true of young people and their housing, so it is on both sides. If we look at young people and the refugees, you ask yourself, " Is this a policy that may be explained when at the highest point of view? ' A minister is that people should go to work whether they can work or not, and the welfare system accepts it as it is done. I want to ask you why. A senator whether it feels that it can be part of that explanation and that people get caught in relief, young men and others, and whether they have something to do with their access to education is limited or supported at least not applicable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u149	V.E.G. President. Our association should be for everyone, and exactly this rule of high school access, that you should not be over 25 years of age, is a clear message to those who either did not start high school after high school or for some reason have temporarily stopped studying. This is a clear message to these groups that they are less worthy of the members of society than those who graduate from high school before they are 25. That government took 80 billion to reduce housing debt. In fact, we are still well - informed, but it is known that much of that money went to people who are in a fine position, even people who had paid off their loans and now receive an extra character discount. Thus, the government used 80 billion instead of building a new hospital, building a nursing home, supporting local health institutions, and improving housing support. That was the priority. 80 billion, that's a lot of money. I know that me and what. A senator and our classes wanted to make further debts in the homes that were in serious trouble, homes that even now received no special release from their cases. We wanted to use most of these billions to strengthen the infrastructure of our community in health, education, and housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u150	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. I never tire of reading from the government's declaration of policy, which says that the government, by permission of the President, will seek to activate the nation's cohesion and to counteract the divisive and suspicion that has been characterized by the Icelandic politics and discussions of society for some time. Later, the workforce will become more and more at peace with the labour market partners on the development of work markets and future development. And: A community is a cooperative project. And then it goes on to say, "It has to be done to ensure the equality of all the people of the country. " You ask yourself: Is equal to keeping the lowest earner in the cold and saying that in the end, the inflation is the result of contracts being such or gay and never seems to be time when better years are or not, to take the job of increasing the lowest wage and the lowest compensation? I think, because we were talking about education and mental problems, that maybe it's part of the education system to have this flexibility, people with psychiatric problems need to have flexibility in the system at its highest level. The Minister of Education is shutting down the budget because he does not do so through a healthy discussion with professionals at the council. Then there is this attitude expressed in the answers to the highest degree. Minister. It is as if an old person should be forced into the labour market. How else should you understand? For the rest, I'd like to ask, in view of the 80 billion discussion, which is it? A senator believes that it is wise and consistent with a good money policy to make taxes in the highest possible way. The government is now doing on the budget bill and reporting on a government budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u151	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the answer. No, when there's a riot in the economy, it's not time to go down on taxes. We had to go down to the low tax elevations because we had been devastated by the income gains of the state fund. It made an independent group and a forwarding team in the leading of the collapse in the greatest good in Iceland, although it is now a false goodness. At that time taxation was dropped at the basking season. It's time to start the same game again. There is also a complaint that remuneration is causing inflation while the state's funds take no responsibility for inflation and make these tax reductions. Of course, the government should say: We are now going to contribute more money to housing, we are going to promote the health system, and we are going to reduce the public's payment of the health system. We're going to expand our education system and make sure that everyone has access to education regardless of the economy, but we're not going to drive people into a more private part of the system that is more expensive. This could have been said: We are also going to improve our child - rearing efforts to meet family families. It would have been possible to say: Now the human standards need to rhyme with our abilities. However, paymen do not expect anything on the part of the government, especially those in the lower income budget, who have no promised tax reduction, but who accept extra spells in public service, pay for it more expensive because the government is about to undermine the systems and society we share together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u152	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. A contemporaneous proposal, for the duration of a meeting, is a proposal that a meeting meeting can last longer than what the Senate puts it to say. Is there a vote for this proposal made by the president?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u153	A respectable president. I hear the President calls in for a vote. It is our position that a meeting may well be held until midnight, although the other is inappropriate for members of the United States to be talking about the financial laws of the United States at night. I just want to be righted to the secretary of finance this morning that we're still going to discuss the basics of the budget. Therefore, there is full material reason to be good at it today, as well as if any talks of the members of the United States will be moved after midnight, they will be reassigned here during daylight, as they have plenty of business to do today and enough time and the right to make such a statement. I don't see why I want to try to get a sense of the part, and to make changes in this on votes and not make a special vote on this occasion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u154	President. The president went to see members of the council today that there would be an evening meeting. We made no comment, and we are ready to be here tonight to discuss the most important things. Secretary of finance thinks it's unconvinced. To keep it going, there's a lot of these last-minute funds, it's very complicated, and it's forgotten, so I think it's very important for me to go over the budget at this time. We councilmen in my section are ready to be here with you from the greater part, hoping that you will be included in the discussion as you can see, or what?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u155	President. It is now known that the president intends to obtain a warrant for a meeting, and he actually reviewed it at a meeting of the council plans that he would like to do so. Given that there's probably more to that sort of thing, I don't think there's any need to vote on that, but I'd like to remind a president that the discussion that has taken place here after midnight hasn't returned very much at all. The meetings have been long but may not have been particularly useful after midnight. I urge the president not to continue the meeting until the night, but to refuse a vote on the President's proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u156	Madam President. As mentioned in a chat I had this morning at the highest level. The secretary of finance is going to discuss the big team. When hundreds of adjustments are made, the nature of the matter needs to be discussed. I agree with the people we've been talking about, I don't think we should talk about the budget at night, but I don't make any comments that there's a warrant for a long conference today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u157	A respectable president. Because of what? paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir asks, I'm very happy, because it's a beautiful day. Well, I'll be up to that suggestion for the highest degree. President that there will be a late meeting and that he will be held in the night if necessary. There are tremendous numbers on the rosary, and the council members have found a great need to express themselves on this matter, in fact, so rich that I understand that this case will be set up in Iceland's conference between four and six today. During this time and no conclusion can be drawn as to when a discussion can be concluded by the government's stand, the president has no alternative but to be here for his evening and night meeting. So I'm up for the ultimate motion. Whether it's a vote or an agreement, it's here in the hall. The president is in a difficult position in this case, since it is impossible to settle from the government's side when it is possible to complete this case and to maintain a vote on the government budget after 2nd. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u158	V.E.G. President. I come here to agree with other government opposers and to say, "We're ready to stay until midnight, and there's no need for votes. But because of him. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason doesn't seem to understand what this is all about, I'd like to assist the head of the Agency to figure out the project; it's a team meeting of micro-energy pensioners out here right now. It would be perfect for him to go and study their viewpoint. On them, the injustice of the move-off team and the Independence Party... who are not going to pay back the public insurance back from May 1, 2015... the corresponding corrections of Icelandic votes and remunerations... have been received and received from the Board of Peacers. Therefore, I encourage members of the board to go out and study the cause of a pensioner. If they see the light, they could pay for the Senate work. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u159	V.E.G. President. I'm very pleased with the suggestion that there's an extended conference meeting here. Let's hope he's the longest. I disagree with an elder. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's zeal for the discussion that has not been helpful. They have been very helpful and useful. However, my main concern in this chair today was to pray. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has been well-respected by the fact that I've called him here with us nights and nights when he lay naked at home. I was ignorant, but, of course, I should have known that as a longtime warrior as Sósur Skarphéðinsson would have good reason to be away from the scene at high times. I'm glad to see it. A senator in the hall, and I hope he has health to accompany us into the night, for this will benefit all of us. That's what I hope we have here a long, successful meeting. Many matters await us, and let's just deal with them, as it says. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u160	A respectable president. In 2012 there was a long discussion of the budget. Then two former senators stood in front of the platform and held the signs on which they read ◯Mishorf. It was November 30, a respectable president. Now, in mid- December and it's clear that the government's gonna put Iceland's record into a press conference, a record that's going to last for a long time, probably forever. Then let us make it possible for the government to make an assessment, and let it be thorough that it survives time, so that this opposition will be remembered mainly for the fact that at the same time the government presented a budget that included the greatest reversal that has been seen in late economic times and the greatest increase in health and health issues was the sole contribution of the government's opposition to set Iceland's record in filament. Let's just give the government stand the stage, I don't think we need to hold a government meeting during this filancy so that you can get the stage, government opposition, to hit Iceland's record, which will probably never be struck. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u161	A respectable president. Somebody talked about top-tops. I'll think of a flyer, so I'll be as funny as the last speaker. I'd like to say that now the situation of the international information is that at the Council of Congress, we met at the General on Saturday. Hv. The major tribunal officers were going to call us to the meeting in the afternoon and then bring us back with some information about the situation, about the political situation that has come up, but I hear it in both the Special Assembly of the Agency and the Prime Minister that they are waiting to call us to this meeting because they think it is so important to finish here some of the world record, but it is not the first time from this investigation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u162	President. I think there's a really weird stuff here. I have to say it right now. Me and the council presidents of my part are not going to stand in the way of a night meeting, and people will come with nothing but shame and rudeness from the greater part. What the hell's that supposed to mean? What for? I don't get it this way. We're trying to negotiate with you, members of the greater body, and then you're just making a date with some rudeness. [[Get out of the way.]] Is this supposed to make it easier for us to get together before the end of the council? [[Up front.]] I'm quite ready - just get on the speaker chair below, okay? paritaprevir Þórhallsson's son, if you need to express yourself. I wasn't pointing my words at what I said. paritaprevir Höbund, son of Þórhallsson, goes to the council of the greater sections and the highest. Prime Minister. I don't think it's necessary to bring wet gloves into the discussion. Hv. The procurator of the Independence Party is innocent, and I am directing this mainly to the forward party. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u163	Madam President. I'm kind of slow to stir by the beautiful expressions of love I got here from my mouth as quickly as possible. The senator of the forward party. It is evil to love someone who does not know how to refuse. I just want to state that I love him as much as he loves me. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] This is the first time that a member of the Parliament has declared it, at least for the time being. from this chair, that he finds the night boring unless I travel there somewhere. I want it to be perfectly clear that if it can make him more bear life, I am prepared to stay here day and night as the council commands and will not turn him aside. Other than that, I declare that I will support the Council President's proposal afterwards because I believe that with her we are in the process of staying until now. 12 but not a minute longer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u164	V.E.G. President. Because of words at the top. I have to say that I really don't care about that. I think the long discussion of budgets now takes into account that a financial committee, in particular, more of the legal committee, has, in fact, compromised this budget. She has the discussion ten days after her work schedule, and there are also many suggestions that should have been made, such as a raise in pay to a teacher of 1.5 billion. Also, the government continues to make contracts that will be accepted. The article then stated that more part of the Penitentiary Committee on Penitentiary binding is not all said, since the Penitentiary debt has not been evaluated, etc. It discusses that it would be the most infringement in terms of his time. [[The president calls.]] There is no discussion nor can it be said that the prime minister will not fulfill raises to the elderly and desperate May 1, when everyone else is to receive 5.9%. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not expected in the bill either. [[The point is, what kind of confusion is this in you?]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u165	A respectable president. Hv. The head of Parliament of the Left Green was asking for some sort of meeting where the government members were supposed to report what we were going to offer them to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u166	He was announced yesterday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u167	I can immediately answer that question, a respectable president: We are not going to offer anything. Nothing. The government situation can talk here until she's had enough, until she's had enough of a thorough Iceland record. Of course, the budget will weigh the above indications and what needs to be considered in the 3rd districts. ... abundant. There may be some changes, but the government or its representatives are not going to stand up to the representatives of a government stand to offer them something for a lawsuit. It's also interesting to see that everyone here is on one side of a government stand, both the old conferences, the two socialist parties, but also the new groups that were supposed to be completely different and pretend to reject things like filibusters. They don't slack off during the filing and the new U.S. record. [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u168	Madam President. That's interesting. Prime Minister should come here as a representative of the government in Iceland who has taken the longest vacation threatening that the government will not meet during this discussion. What a joy it would be if she would do as little as possible! What a joy it is to witness at the height! The prime minister is counting the days and hours discussing government budgets because at the same time, I think a very large proportion of the people are counting down the days until the government of Sigmundur, the Davíð of David, the son of Gunnlaugsson, leaves power. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] This is one of the worst governments in history and one of the cheapest prime ministers ever to defend this place. [[Is that what you're saying?]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u169	A respectable president. The discussion with the 2nd. This time it has become a long budget because of the many difficult issues of opinion and the ill - prepared issues on the part of the government. Some 300 changes in the majority of the areas that take many major factors can be seen here. We also see that the EEA does not intend to grant the governor's requests for adequate management funds and not meet the normal requirements of pensioners for dress-feeding according to the general pay paid. On the contrary, this debate has shown a strong will expressed here by the highest authority. Secretary of finance today to dwindle a pensioner. We are then at the same time, for the discussion goes on for a long time, seeing that the arrangement in the administrative part is breaking down. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has already declared that he is ashamed of the vote he paid for his fundraiser. [[The president calls.]] It is very important that the discussion is able to continue to pull out the conflict and conflict in the administrative sector and try to push this more to better work. [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u170	A respectable president. I think it's just a ridiculous and ludicrous atmosphere if you can't get into the pit in big business and give a speech without being accused of being a talk. I have given one talk on the budget and took a little time to prepare it. She was to describe how I view these matters. In the short future, we have drawn close to the discussion so that we view our duty as a matter of duty to take care of the issues that concern our interests and the lawsuits we face on committees and say how we feel the budget should be. We have. Can we not do this in a way that is different from being accused of delaying or being in the middle of a filing situation? I'm totally denying that we're involved in that kind of thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u171	A respectable president. Of course, it is possible to understand that the prime minister is losing his mind, but he must pray to the highest level. Prime Minister, for his office's sake, not to give up in the public talk. It does not fit in any direction when his secretary of finance has declared it two hours ago or so from this same chair that it will fully discuss the expansion of the budget bill and how it will conduct the long - term programme of government funds established by the government itself. I think that gives us every reason to stay here for a while. There's no reason for special fingering into it, as here are senators on the rosary that are going in their first talk on this important bill, the budget. There is no reason for a prime minister to lose such a sense of urgency over those members of the council who allow themselves to discuss the subject. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u172	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a vote for a night meeting. I'd like to say that there is no room to be found on the Party of Independence in the pursuit of the budget and the changes in budgets available here for 2nd. Nor is there any need for us to find ourselves in the administrative work, if necessary. paritaprevir That's what Páll Árnason thinks. It has been the right of each senator not to agree with his party, and sometimes it has been. paritaprevir The Árni Árnason rejoiced over this. Thus, it should not be surprising that not all members of the Parliament share the same opinion within the same party. There is no room to be found at the Independence Party council on this discussion or in support of the budgetary bill and the changes it may have made. That is why we could continue here until the evening and the next few days.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u173	A respectable president. Because of what? Hjörvar I have to say, it's clear that there's a huge number of speakers in the 2nd. on budgets for 2016 The government situation finds a great need to talk about this and, as noted, to put Iceland's record in the budget. In such a situation, when the government itself cannot tell when it is ready to complete 2nd. about a budget bill for 2016, can't be given a timeliness about whether a discussion ends tonight, tomorrow, the day or Saturday, because men may not be just thinking of an Iceland record, they're going to beat the record of Europe as well. In such a situation, it is extremely difficult to keep a night meeting and a night meeting. All of this is responsible for the government's opposition. Of course, it is historic that she is not ready to publish when the 2nd is. Game's over. [[The president calls.]] That's why we have to have a vote here for a night and night meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u174	Madam President. First of all, last night at a meeting, I understand, the executives were going to make a meeting, i.e. Congress officials were going to announce their meeting with the members of the council members of the government of the United States. That's what's at the top. Prior to that, the prime minister said that he did not quite agree. Then one asks: " Have the council officers no authority here to complete their affairs? [[Up front.]] On the one hand, although it would be the world record set by the government, just in order to have one of the many credits that the management men have, these people are standing out here in the wilderness and older citizens who have required it, anyway. A senator and a member of the Parliament who wishes us to speak on their behalf. What we will discuss in this Assembly Hall is of importance. The giant-great-great-grandest file of what happened. A senator refers to four members of the council, two of which are in the first speech and two in the second speech. Madam President. [[The president calls.]] I remind you that no one has asked for a vote for length of meetings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u175	A respectable president. I still have no grasp of any speech here so that there is a vote on the subject. The discussion began with the lack of a vote for length of meetings, that members of the council were prepared to stay until evening and night. I reiterate what actually appeared during the last talk, that it's not a long holiday list.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u176	A respectable president. Just to settle any doubt, I called here to earlier that I asked for a vote for the duration of a meeting so that it can definitely stand until the morning. I'm sorry to admit that my experience with this opposition is that her words cannot be trusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u177	V.E.G. President. After this short administration, the highest. - The Minister of Foreign Affairs for the discussion... - In terms of the Minister's opinion, it was a very good introduction. [[It was a very good entry.]] [[Up front.]] But when I think of my last term, it comes to my mind an excellent language, which is like, "This chicken nobody has an ass shit." Hv. Group chairman asks: "When will the discussion of money and money be completed? [[Up front.]] It will be when the government is in charge of its attack against the elderly and the desperate. In the past of this government, disability benefits, impaired biofuels, have increased by 10 of you. K. by tax, from 162 you. K. to 172 you. K. We're talking about a retrospective rise to be seen with them as does everybody else, meaning 17 of you. K. an increase to taxes, probably about 12 y's. K. by tax. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] That's all it's about. And it is this attack by this government that claims to have found a wide edge on the budget and is now making use of it to attack them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. As long as this is not changed, we will surely continue to discuss both financial and financial provisions. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u178	...the chicken that reduced it during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u179	A respectable president. I kind of think it's a hell of a record. Prime Minister and others before. The members of the board are interested in measuring out and talking about record. The person standing here was not at the council during the winter of 2012. We're here discussing the budget of the Icelandic government by 2016 and this year is 2015, so I think we should keep our attention to the discussion that is going on here and not always waste our energy measuring it out with one or another. In the short future, we have held a number of meaningful and excellent speeches on the 2016 budget. We believe it is our duty to enter this most important matter of winter and to the highest degree. The prime minister comes up here calling it a filibuster.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u180	A respectable president. This in itself has not been requested for a vote, although I here address the vote, except from the highest degree. Secretary of state. I think it would be advisable for the President of the Generals to discuss the Senate ahead, so we did not discuss this here from a pontt after the vote on how the Congress will be held accurately. I encourage a seated president to take the initiative to discuss the matter here under the president of the General Assembly. Of course, it's not anything we should be discussing here necessarily in a pita but just trying to find some way to look ahead and see how we're going to finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u181	A respectable president. Still speak the highest. A person's record of something they call a filibuster. I would like to state that I have not spoken in this discussion at this point because I was not allowed to come to the Assembly Hall last week. You see, they found on Saturday some footnote that if members of the council called in the guards, they should be away for a week, not for five days, as we most thought the rule was. It was as one nice senator put it: It's so good when you start using footnotes to help with the cooperation. And that is exactly what is happening right now. I would have talked here on Saturday if I had been let into the hall, but it wasn't because people had already found it out that I might have spoken for 40 minutes. Then you'll only get to listen to me for 40 minutes instead and maybe back to 20. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u182	A respectable president. I've had two talks on this matter, in my opinion a great deal of material, and there's more to discuss. I'm sorry. I couldn't sleep. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson was not there when I gave my second talk, but in much of his fine talk, I urged everyone not to listen to it when it was delivered. I'd like to inform the highest. Prime Ministers on how things are sometimes done at the end of the council, especially when such matters as the Icelandic government's budget are very large and large, especially when many adjustments are made, especially when adjustments are made. This does not involve criticism of the arrangement, I'm just pointing out that long discussions are normal about some matters, especially when there are four political groups, many of which have a different perspective on what things are supposed to be. What happens then is that when the majority begin to complain and reach out for a limit in their speaking period, they are asking the lesser part to restrict their freedom of speech. That's why treaties are made. [[The president calls.]] It's not a prize for filing, as it is called, it's just part of the fact that if the other part wants to shorten the discussion, he has to offer something back if they are not to make full use of his freedom of speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u183	Teamwork and cooperation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u184	Madam President. Last Friday, I spoke in this discussion and gave a talk, not using the entire class I was offering. I think I spoke for less than 30 minutes but could give a talk for 40 minutes. It's the only talk I've ever given in this discussion, and I don't see myself having to add much to it in myself. I think it's only natural that all members of Congress have at least something to say about the government's financial laws. It is not acceptable to sit in this room at the highest level of the administration. As the prime minister of the army rises up here, he holds it up to his face and to the people's face that there is something abnormal on the road. It's totally unacceptable, it's not a problem, it's unadvisable, it's not even democratic to say it. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] I want to pray to the highest. Secretary of State to calm down while I explain my case here. [[Up front.]] I'm waiting for the highest. Minister of State to slow down and allow others here to express their opinion because this is just a trace of rudeness. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u185	A respectable president. Nevertheless, I still think it's vital that people start talking. I think there's a reason for everyone to realize that, and I always think it's surprising that the end of the council is that the classes must sit down and talk to each other. I'm not going to spend any more words on how ridiculous it is that you have something to defend that you gave one speech on the budget that took 40 minutes. What's happening in front of us is that it's creating other traditions at 2nd. of budgets. In the past, it took less than 24 hours for some reason. Then it happens that this tradition, it's starting to exist right here in front of our noses, i.e. That members of Congress feel that it is their duty to plaguate in a discussion of money laws and government officials have been doing the same. It's just the situation. There's only one thing that must be done at the end of the council because the time is limited, and it is one thing that the senators have, that freedom of speech, must be explained to members of Congress who wish to speak at the end that they should not speak, and that they will only be agreed on, because people are being brought to justice. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm not gonna give any more speeches on the budget myself. I've already said what I was going to say. But there are plenty of others who want to say something more. [[The president calls.]] They need to be explained to them why they should not do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u186	A respectable president. There's a bit of a strange discussion here, it can be compared to the lawsuit the government has used in the President's conference board. There's obviously a smile on a lot of nervousness. The results came from this morning's poll, and I know that the soul of the left man is not well - aware of bad polls, but it's only that since the fall of the talk about moving to a controlled position in the development community. It's amazing that all the government posts like this, including members of the new clans who came in here and were elected to change the practice at the Council, let them go. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is pulling itself into this business, and in view of bringing it through before the year's convention, the budget has become a matter of speech, Iceland's record. [[The president calls.]] It's already been because there was a vote in the numbers since last Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u187	A respectable president. I don't think all this conversation is a good thing. I kind of think that there's a lot of talk about language below all the caves. It's the first budget talk I'm involved in, but I thought it would be what it's been like, so fixed, but the controversy that takes place here, the tremor that seems to be between the parties, most likely reminds me of a child of divorce. It's just that way. I think it's okay for people to just start talking, it's not like they're hard. And, yes, we may disagree about TSSI for ideological reasons, but it also needs to be discussed. It is also all right to discuss these blessed laws, it is not as if there are a hundred risks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u188	Madam President. Here it was, once before, the proverbial queen of the last term. paritaprevir Hauksdóttir, the daughter of Hauk, expressed great zeal for what she calls a filancy in this council hall. Outside the house, tens of them now stand, reminding them of their silent presence in the province of Congress their responsibility in caring for the budgets, among other things. And although it is now that we discussed the budget at least until midnight. But it is absurd to think that we are here in a lawsuit when we discuss the provision of government funds at 600,700 billion dollars, a government law handed down at the first hour by 20 billion rests, now 15 billion. We have a few things to do, but this government is not ready to provide microorganisms and elderly normal rights from the same time we accept our own corrections, 6 billion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u189	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by saying, "What?" paritaprevir Proppér, who said earlier he wasn't here during his last term. I couldn't really care more about an Iceland record or a European record or another, how long people talk in this pool. There you go. I also agree with what. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, it's time to discuss the end of the council, it's a perfectly normal time to do so, it's been done this time year after year. At the same time, I agree with my colleagues. The members of the Þörstein Þorsteinn and Össur Skarphéðinsson's Sæmundsson may want us to show more love in this pit right here. So I'm directed to the president that he is now taking the conference board and telling him whether this vote will be held here so that we can continue to discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u190	V.E.G. President. I've been part of a media conference very often, and I'm proud of it. That's what I've done when I've thought that a length of discussion could lead to a barrier to damage in Icelandic or Icelandic society. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson said that a later tradition had developed. I think there's a reason for that, because money has become more than a question of dollars and money. We're dealing with system changes. When it is decided to allow 1.2 billion to correct agreements with private clinics, we refuse to let the Land Hospital and the State Health Organization get money to correct our expensive contracts, we see that we are dealing with changes in our system. [[The president calls.]] One party is to be starving and the other's welcome. We're not just dealing with dollars and pennies, we're dealing with an organization in the Icelandic welfare system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u191	President. First, I want to say no, I'm here to have some kind of language code. This is my first discussion of this budget bill, and I think it's very important that you and I bring up some of the key points that have been stressed, but I also think it's very important that we're reasonable. What I experience as the only unfair thing to do when we discuss this financial bill is when the present more important things decide in some incredibly pathetic way to compare 2015's budget with the 2009 budget. I'd like to say, if it's passed by any Icelander or senator because they're many new now, that by 2009 the present government was then in its arms with extraordinary difficulties. They had to contend with a financial breakdown that came about by the present government groups. It's just that way. If you read the General's research report, you can clearly see who was responsible for the collapse of the financial crisis and it's incredibly painful to carry the cuts I know it was difficult when the government was in the arms of the third largest financial failure in the history of the world and had to cut down, compared with how close this government is to the poorer and older citizens. Then, first of all, I'm talking about seniors who are not entitled to traditional pension payments or who are cut to a nail because they are forced to get paid from a insurance agency. I wasn't a part of the last government, but I find so incredibly disgusting, lame, silly, and pathetic presentation not to be able to face the reality and course of which you yourself are with, like the present government that does nothing at all for those who have been promised to be able to live with some kind of dignity. It leads me to another matter that is the arrangement we have on a insurance agency that has a system that makes it impossible for anyone to understand, not even people who have worked there for a long time. Although well - intentioned people, whether as governments or governments, have worked hard to correct the ideals of disability and older citizens, there are some impairments on a side that no one envisions, and people may be left with an even worse choice despite attempts to do better. It leads me to the conclusion that that that system is simply out of place, destroyed, and too complicated. We really need to lie down over it, as it has been done over and over again, but with the goal of recreating the present system from the same material instead of looking freshly at how we can permanently adapt these things. I've known a lot of disability, and like everyone here at my age, I've had a grandparents who've had pensions. Some senators who have said that never the pensioners and sensibilities were as well off from our common funds should try to survive the pay that people receive from a insurance agency. That's no joke. Every day I receive letters, such as just a lot of senators, people who are in trials, who don't have their medication, and they don't have food for the month. This month, when we share food and gifts with one another, is very difficult for people. That is why I have to ask myself, " Why are we definitions of people? ' What kind of ideologies is that? What kind of ideism is it that if a person who is 25% or 100% invalid gets a little more employment or he gets a part - time job, he or she gets cut off by the person at some incredibly low level? It's not characteristic of Iceland. The reason for the resurrection of Fascists, a sort of zombi, throughout Europe that are gaining greater and greater roots, people who nurture fear, people who gain support for the fear of the common people for their survival, is that we do not have enough of the most vulnerable groups in our society. The people who have the right to do so according to the community, which we all agree that we want to live on down through the mesh. How is it that we live in a society where the first person who becomes ill, for example, with cancer that needs to be spent a whole month filling out some paperwork and unsure whether the patient will receive money for next month's meals? I know it's not the community most Icelanders want to live in. If we want to prevent extremes in our society, the disgusting zombie celebrations that are performing all over Europe, including Here, we need to make sure that those who really need our support to keep out of our common funds, people who have even paid well in their health, we must make sure that they are allowed to live with dignity and respect in our society instead of continuing to form these rows with a mother service committee and others to get food share in December. President. I was one of the single mothers who had to line up with the Mother's Twelfth Committee in the past. It was humiliating, it was a difficult, heavy step, and it's not something I wish anyone. I don't want us living in this kind of community where it will be north to our community, with Iceland, one of the richest people in the world, can't make sure our people get a proper health service, that they really have to live with a constant fear of their survival. All those who have been afraid of their survival know what it's like. You count every cent, you hope you don't have to go to the dentist, you hope you don't blow up your car or something that calls for more money. The situation was bad before the collapse, it was even worse in the collapse, and unfortunately, it is the kindest thing that is spoken of in the present government of so many people. Because you saw it in the collapse, it's extremely bad for how long, and you cut deep into the starving health system. During so - called good times, health - care systems were systematically starving, and much fat was cut when the collapse had to be cut. The health system, the hospitals, the health care, and the service to people in the country are disintegrating. Let me tell you something, dear. Senators, this is not an accident. That's very specific. Now it is to begin privatizing what has been starving and taking away oxygen for so long. You're about to start using private health care. There is a desperate need for doctors who want to become family doctors, and there are too many here who have the reality of not having their own family doctor. None of the big problems I'm here talking about getting needed oxygen so that this will not continue to cram inside. Last funds, for example, agreed to reflect on the right to unemployment benefits to the rural communities. Many of these are in deep trouble, so education begins to be influenced, e.g. The basic school system. We have to keep in mind, it's so important that the budget here is not some system that doesn't have to do with each other. The decisions made here will affect all the people of the country each day for a year and even longer, especially if they do not receive the necessary service at the times so as not to get permanent arks from or even die. This system, the financial system, the financial system, the school system, the health system, the local government system, is all one body, one ecosystem. This ecosystem affects one another. When we ponder large spending teams into rural communities, the quality of life of those living in that rural community is affected. When we make these decisions without thinking of Iceland as a single ecosystem, there are always some who fall through the ever-growing grid, and that's very bad. That's why people have lost so much faith in our work here. If I'd been watching the conversation in town earlier, I would've just thought, "What kind of nuthouse is this? Are these the people we trust to look after the interests of the nation as a whole? Sadly, this talk will be held at the highest. The secretary of finance and simply tell us the others, who represent a number of Icelanders at the International Assembly of Iceland, that there is no reason to listen to the suggestions that the lesser part brings to correct this financial bill. I'm not a member of the General Assembly now, but I've been here longer than a lot of people, and then I'm talking about in Parliaments, and I know that the tradition of the budgeting process here is not strange simply because there's always been a circle of budgets, how we're doing the budget at the General and when the budget is coming in from the Ministry of finance. There's an enormous amount of transparency around the budget itself. It's very difficult to settle into these matters. Even though we have all the paperwork, there is not even an overview of the different departments and joints or a comparison with a staff of previous years. For civilians who approved the budget, it is impossible to monitor the decisions we make here. Hence, it is so important that members of all categories express themselves in detail about this and the financial support that they feel most important to them. There is a very up - to - date discussion that you can witness that in the Hall of Congress, in particular the experts who have been assigned to a financial committee go over and to swerve their views. I find this discussion to be so unbelievably disrespectful as if it were just a matter of speech. I feel totally disrespectful, and I feel that we're in a place here at the council that there's no way we can find ways to increase the road and respect of this workplace, and I don't know if they will succeed in this ideal period. I don't think it's very likely. I think it's very boring, and I just want to ask the public how this place works in the community and how the discussion is thrown out into society. Sadly, the prime minister simply said: There will be no agreement. I just want to say the highest. The prime minister that we do not care at all. Prime Minister is in charge of the government and has handed over the budget to the General Assembly. He simply does not have a ruling authority to determine whether or not to sit at the table of negotiations. V.E.G. The prime minister simply doesn't have anything to say about it. The prime minister may bear in mind that it is the council that employs, not his. Then I'd like to give a song to something we're piranha, and more people have put much emphasis on taking into account the budget. A letter was sent by the Board of Directors and Overseers to the Board of Directors and Control, which states that it agrees that the priorities established by the Generals' agent showed in the leak business and that the government directors were involved in a normal procedure. The Commission wants additional funds of 15 million, especially for taking the initiative and research. I think it's very important. Fortunately, on the board of administration and monitoring committees, all members of the committee, regardless of what group they came from, agreed on the importance of independence and the ability of the emissary to do their job when it comes to the initiative. This is very important. There is also something else that we think is very important. Fortunately, some money is being turned into law enforcement, but for some reason, we are still severely hungry, and instead, as many feel, that it is urgent to consider correction rather than decommissioning and punishment, we are in a position where people cannot be received even in prisons. They're overcrowded. Everybody knows this. In the near end of the waiting period, people have been in prison for a year or longer before they have been allowed to serve and have turned their lives upside down. What is expressed in the law is not in the spirit of correction. I would've liked to be positive about these budgets, but the budget was too late. For example, if a person is returning a book or something and returns it too late, he does not carry it that year and send it over to the next year, to the next Christmas Mass. We don't have that choice at the Council. We have to do so well and accept the raw, unscrupulous, fiscal bill that is so much changed between 1 and 2. By Minister himself, it is impossible to understand all the changes. They're so far from being so bad that a huge spending team when it comes to the missing raise from a teacher. This is not the government I dream of, I must say right now. I feel that this government is a disgrace and one of the basic reasons why the Council is in the hands of a trust that is somewhat unfair because I would say that very much of our troubles here is because the executives have been committed far too much power, as can be seen in many of the cases that have come here. It includes, for example, a developing cohesion agency and all the confusion around it, but we have hidden all too much power to do what they want, and often you feel that the Ministers themselves are not completely aware of what they are doing here. It's as if the talks are written for them in the plots, and they just don't think it's ridiculous. I think it's completely unacceptable. We receive orders here from some people we don't even know what they look like and were never elected to set the policies approved here, often without much discussion, meditation, or superiority simply because they don't work time. How happy we are, though, that we have been in December and have had the opportunity, even though the budget bill will arrive so late to cover it in detail! Well, that's good because it's such a bad job. But I promise you, there are going to be a lot of clums in these budgets that can use probe to affect the lives of a lot of people. I don't think it's acceptable. A lack of respect for the letter of law is in here. Everyone in this room has an oath to follow the letter of the law, but at the same time, he is so badly written that no one can understand it. It is unacceptable, and I hope that when the next budget is available, they will be able to see and understand it by anyone interested in it. It's not like this today and probably not since seventeen hundred and sauerkraut. Those who have observed my work at the General Assembly are aware that I feel very important in strengthening and strengthening the Council. I think it's very important that we senators travel in ways that it's not just some majority, as this may have been all along, I don't know exactly how it started, but I imagine that more part was in charge. I've been a spokesman for our conventions, and I think it's totally possible. It is a coolness that we need to initiate, and we need more support, and we may be able to cut off the fat layer in the plot so that the Council could be a stronger organization that has more to say on the law. In nature, law doesn't matter so much, or it's my feeling, if we don't get the opportunity to shape policy and law at the Council. Maybe, I don't know. However, it is clear that we have arrived at the point where we really need to reconsider and consider how we can change things here. Although many geniuses in all kinds of business ventures find it clever to run the administrations and most important institutions of the country in a way that no one ever knows how to arrange a day of work or when cases should come in or are taken care of, it is not a government I find fascinating. It's so out - of - date or lame that I feel like I'm in the position of being stuck in this reflexes straitjacket. I just hate it if I can be so honest, Mr President. There's one thing I've been disappointed with, and I'm surprised to find myself in this financial bill, that my insurance bill has not been dropped. I think there would have been a very good message that this company was being thinking about a small, medium-sized company, that it was being given the necessary oxygen to keep hiring people or to run their places. It's not, and I'm surprised. I would have liked to see more cohesion for every senator to make sure it was fixed. I'd like to call attention to committees highlighting from 1st, 2 and 3 smaller parts of the budget board. There are quite a number of interesting things I am convinced that their representatives have considered to have done much more in this regard. Sadly, I missed much of the budget talk because I was a member of the General Assembly in a foreign country. There's one last thing I want to go over, and that's that money is not expected in the national law on a new constitution. I expect a statement in the coming days from the Board of Directorates that it is simply not possible to maintain a national law on the change of constitution, as was planned in connection with the election. There's a considerable number of budget teams, about 300 million missing into this budget bill and very harsh to the top. The prime minister could not simply make this a part of what we needed to make a request. It's sad that we can't finish the mortgages everyone's waiting for from the highest level. Minister of Social Affairs. It comes in some pieces, dies its Lord in the government, or falls on some committee, and you can't finish it because there are always some other bills missing. This isn't acceptable either, Mr. President. We've got people in emergency situations over the conditions of a housing market. This is an emergency and after all this time, and all these big promises have not happened there. I find it very boring, and I ask those in the position of respect for the kind of people they chose to handle these matters that have been waiting so long in this country. I know a lot about renting. It's not fun. It was not fun before a crash, and it was even worse after a crash. The major milestones achieved by a gentleman named Jón frá Pálmholt for the tenet rights of the tenants seem to have gone backwards because there has been no progress. It is still very difficult to get rent in the long run, and it is difficult to obtain adequate housing. It does not matter whether you are an invalid, a student, a young person, or a person who has lived in poverty. It can always come to this point in everyone's life that people are in a position not to be able to store money in housing. That's why I feel like I'm always in Groundhog Day. It's just how I feel. It is most uncomfortable and certainly most comfortable for those waiting and waiting, such as the people outside the house today, people who have been waiting and waiting for the promises to be right for them or the line of law for life and nothing will happen. As has been observed repeatedly, there are ways to finance a reimbursement in microsurgents and older citizens who receive their wages from insurance agencies. If a transliterian wish was to take only those who have it best, e.g. by continuing the energy tax or the fishing fees where companies are making money on our common resources, this would not be a problem. We could resolve this and ensure that in the next terms of fear, suspicion, repugnance, and general revulsion are not designed to create soils, suggesting that certain kinds of people are worse than others or that they are afraid of. This has been the subject of the discussion about, for example, the reasons why we are not just caring for our own sick and poor. It is this, and has long been, that part of our international commitments is to welcome those who apply for refuge or shelter. We are part of international agreements in that area, and if we are simply willing to resign from the international community, we can do so, but personally I find that a very dull thought. We could never do that anyway. I just want to finish my words by saying that I think it's very important that when they call out for our help, the next group is not going to be next to an outcast and live in unsurpassed situation, as has really happened with the health system. I felt so proud and satisfied with many things in our medical system in the past. I have lived abroad, and our system is not the best, but it was truly one of the finest. Now, for example, I have been in the habit of hurting myself rather badly and determined not to go to the hospital to be out of the way because I know the list of waitings is long. I know some people are much weaker than me, and they need to get back. This is not the kind of health system that we would like to live in, since people hold back from being helped by doctors or hospitals in case of trouble. Similarly, we do not want to live in such a community that people are afraid of going to a family doctor, but the situation is that a very large proportion of people in the country have no permanent family doctor. The medical history is inexplicable, and as a result, dangerous diseases are not quickly diagnosed. Although these are the most burning issues in my life, there are natural numbers in this financial bill that I would have wanted to cover in detail, but I realize that many members from my section have already covered that and that there may be no need to repeat the talks of others. Once again, I would like to encourage those interested in this important category, this is the largest political event every year, the budget, to learn as I told the former committees of 1, 2 and 3 of my legal committees. It's not much of a reading. Then I also encouraged people to study the suggestions we offered in our smaller section together. I think it is very important to find a sense of cooperation to endeavor to achieve some changes. Sounds like the highest. The prime minister does not consider any basis for listening to all the Icelanders who chose to trust us in their memory. I think it's sad, but we senators and the council members will not let this Supreme Court go. The conduct of the council affects the prime minister. This makes one think that it would really be good if ministers were not members of Congress at the same time. It's just that it's not good or healthy for Congress. I'm going to end my speech on the budget bill by reminding you. Chairmans, hva. The more important it is to listen to, acknowledge, and sense the fear, the pain on people who are vulnerable to worry about their survival. That's something you guys are doing. Councilmen of the greater part and presidents of the budget board can and should be fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u192	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to begin by saying that I agree with her, out here are people who trust in us, their chosen representatives, to protect their interests as well. Sorry, of course, when it's the highest. The minister of finance has declared that nothing will be turned to financial or financial matters. A prime minister agrees by saying that nothing will be discussed with government opposition. This, among other things, must cover the suggestions we have made. Old citizens often talk about disability and the need to look at other things. However, no housing has been observed and the rent market is broken, at least in the big capital area, especially for low-payers. Nothing has happened there that can support it. There does not seem to be much harmony within the government in this regard. It has been heard that the Independence Party considers it too expensive and does not agree with it, and the Ministry of finance does not give them a good grade, as we know it, the ideas that have developed. Also, there are many other things older citizens and disability have called for, decommissioning worth taxes on drugs, already tolling tolls, and other things. Doesn't take it. A senator's position that it would be wise to cancel a value tax on drugs? I'd like to ask you, too. A senator on income tax changes. Does it think that the changes in income taxation that have been put into place and appear to be in the financial budget ahead are a failure to increase the quality of autism outside the present violation of the contract? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u193	President. I appreciate the questions. I hadn't even thought of it as worth a tax on drugs. It's just kind of weird. Of course, I believe he'll be decommissioned. It's all somehow so mass taxed in Iceland, there's a very strange arrangement with a lot of things. In some special way, buying things that you need is more expensive. There were considerable changes in this huge, complex system of drugs, and in some respects I think it was worse for many. I have seen that many people simply cannot afford to solve life - giving drugs. I find it very boring to see that the reality independence is so great with the silver spoons that they fail to realize that by coming to a low level to meet people and thinking that what is now being done for the poorest people in the country is some sort of superfluous thing, they show an overwhelming deal of realitylessness. Then I have to admit to it. A senator that I would like to ask her to repeat her second question so that I can answer her later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u194	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer is just to proceed. It was noted in the review of the Corporate Community for the budget on products, but not only drugs, but also aid tools, that while customs are dropped by various products, whether they were TVs or something else, e.g. clothing, that you may have been able to store your TVs and something like that and drop or put in a lower level of medicines and equipment. True, everyone needs to dress but like a dog. A senator said that taking medication is not a choice. The second question involved the change in the tax system that has been proposed. I am deeply concerned that it will not benefit those with the lowest income, i.e. It would not add to their provisions, and it would have remembered if, for example, the tax step had been brought. The reduction was in step 2, but if it had been added to step 1, it would have been relevant about 500 k. the number of months or 3 you are. K. every month, i.e. ... thenmorethan 35yous. K. every year or more than 5 of you. K. For those with little things, that is all. I also wanted to talk to the senator about our Hospital and Hospital, including ours. In Akureyri. There are people who don't live there, but they're because, in my opinion, they don't have a complete vision of aging. Each year, though, there is a lack of perspective, and there are times when there is no effort to make a point. Based on a statement by the Supreme Court. Ministers for those standing out here wishing to get their terms corrected, so I'm going on with it, have a feeling that an old man and poorer or patients are just put into jobs that the labour market is so unappreciative of being employed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u195	President. I appreciate the questions, and I'm gonna start worrying about what. A senator on the IRS system. This is so important when we are talking about the lack of vision, forethought, and long - term goals that are being made progressively. The Finnish Parliament has something to say about the future committee, and I think we just need to have a date-date job at the General, where we review large groups of cases like a vision of aging, a vision of how we're going to carry out all the promises we made in Paris for the last few weeks, a vision of how we're going to ensure some sort of real sustainability in Iceland, how we want to run our education system, or how we want to have our health system. There has been no proper discussion of this except in some committees outside the council, although there are sometimes members of the council. We should have mentioned where we will discuss and attend the future at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. There we can take a thorough look at visitors who could give us a view of how it would be best to manage aging and so many other matters. I know that's not gonna happen right now. I've been trying to bring all kinds of innovations since I've been here, and it doesn't happen, so maybe it's a hopeless place for innovation, I don't know, but it's at least an idea I'm going to make.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u196	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a nice speech. She quoted at the highest. Prime Minister, that he had said that there would be no agreement with government opposition. I missed it myself, but I ask. A senator would know if I understood it correctly. I was surprised to hear this because we are talking about issues that are very supportive in society, especially with increased contributions to the Land Hospital and the ideal elderly and the desperate. Hv. A senator reviewed that in the smaller parts, we demand an uplift from May 1. We aim for this at 10.9%, the older citizen's Union is 14.5%, but we have had sub-negotiates from the VR and Flea Community, and we also require that they receive 5.9% from May 1st, 2016. Neither one of us has failed at the highest. Governments. Earlier today, the highest line answered. Economic and financial secretary's question from what? paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason, president of the United States, were somewhat so important that it was so important to keep the pensions lay because many young men were getting out of school, couldn't move on, so that it would be very important to keep everyone, so I understood him, under the minimum to develop some impulse to go to the job market. I want to ask you why. A senator how he feels about this statement by the chairman of the Independence Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u197	President. I kind of don't know what to say when people act this way, as the head of the Independence Party did. This shows an amazing lack of understanding of people's circumstances. We cannot run an welfare system to the point that we are going to lower the lowest because there may be some in situations that need to be addressed. They need to be treated if young men are peeling out of school, and they obviously need something to find ways to go to the job market. These are very common boys who should be in some sort of functional study, often a computer - related study, or some social situation that needs adjustment. It is lame to use it as an excuse to keep everyone so low that they can't live with dignity, can't live a month without being anxious and afraid for their survival and theirs. Such language comes only from people who have never had to live with poverty, people who have never had to let go of eating or not buying the necessary drugs because they do not have money for them or do not have to go to the dentist and the kids get to the dentist. It's just people who have never had to live with such a lack of speech, and they make me feel sick.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u198	Madam President. There are more than young men in disability for some reason. It also includes thousands of people and older citizens, so it is very strange for humans to look for an excuse that is held in a crisis in the community to keep this large group under the minimum limit. The spirit of the Law on Social Security is not to keep them, especially as the poorest group in society, the older ones who cannot work because of their disability, but is the spirit of the law that knows to protect these people and to make sure that they will not be the poorest members of the community. I want to ask you why. A senator whether she agrees with me in that it's not to look at the cold law, it's to see the spirit of the law. This has been done before, in the 2011 collective agreements. In case of a moment. A senator has an anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anti - anticommit, it would be good for him to react to a chapter in the Committee's list of things relating to burdensome legislation. It lists surveillance agencies, including the emissary of the Generals as an agent. In his talk, a senator spoke about. This is referred to in the section's section as a burdensome law code of surveillance that affects the way the institutions serve. However, there is no mention of consumers or publics in this regard. The U.S. Marshal's agent is placed under it. Wait a minute. A senator to deal with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u199	President. I appreciate the questions. I'd also like to use this opportunity to thank the representatives of my section for a financial committee for a detailed and good job at the Committee that has benefited us in our smaller section very well as a better perspective on the budget. The Senator asks about burdensome legislation, the whole surveillance system, and the processes that we were trying to establish after a crash in order to prevent the systematic inadequacy that appears in many parts of the community. I reviewed before the discovery that we had with the authors of a report by the General Commission before it was published and how deeply the people felt about the bad news it brought to the nation. In view of the struggle to put the focus on the wrong groups, of whom to be careful not to cheat, we must not forget the whole discussion of reformed fraud and make laws so that people should feel almost like criminals if they need to get help from their society. I don't think it's a good development, and I can't support it in any way. V.E.G. The prime minister appeared today and said that there was nothing to negotiate with the smaller portion. He said it right up here in a pit, and he was very proud of it because he was the director of the Generals. I just want less of the highest. The minister's point is that he is not at the end of that question did not ask any man to the highest degree. Prime Minister in question class today. People have almost forgotten that the person in charge of the government will be here from time to time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u200	A respectable president. I just want to review some of the elements of the bill in my second speech here. I'd like to spend a few hours responding to a request. This morning's secretary of finance was discussing the economic foundation, the big film he advertised, and saying that nothing had been discussed in this discussion. First, I would like to review just the fundamental reasons that are relevant to us in the government of this discussion. I think I can speak for all of us. It is to respond to the natural wishes of the governor of the Land Hospital for improvements and to respond also to ensuring adequate support for the political solidarity that has developed in its management and to the great demand that pensioners enjoy the same repetitive subsidies as employees. At the beginning of my speech, I would like to review that matter only in a very special and complex sense. A minister of finance would agree, and if it is not a lack of understanding, his deliberate efforts to mislead the discussion of dresser reforms for pension patients, who were involved with him in the radio show blasting last morning. That's when you set the top. Ministers, as the international community knows, our demands in relation to the low-paying labour market status and, in this way, wanted to create some sort of wolf spray or tension between pensioners and low-payers. What could be understood by the highest words. A minister was that it would be in some way bad for low-payers if pensioners received the same type of compensation as that. The setting up of contrasts between those who are busy waking up and working for themselves and those who have an unpleasant sound. We hear a contingency with this debate now at the British Resident Party government, who has acted with great determination and rage against pensioners, and who set up the impression that anyone in need of public pensions is devoid of the community and the community in general to the detriment of the community. I feel so sad about it. Secretary of finance is to be joined by that group. When I asked the highest. To this morning's secretary of finance on the background of these words and the ideas underlying them, he began to talk about things far different from the ideal pensioners in general. He then traced what we know, that a group of young people, especially boys, do not find themselves at school or at work and are at high risk of social isolation and become out - of - control in society. As the last government, we need not be taught anything about this group. That's what we did by using the unemployment insurance fund to finance a wide range of education and training options for the group when we started the campaign of young people on the move. There were 23 options at offers that people could choose from, a variety of study and training options, many of which were in the public high school but many also outside. At the beginning of the work period, the contribution of the present government was to complete all these tasks. So she has not done anything to reduce the exact social isolation of the population at its height. The secretary of finance now uses a villain's dress not to raise the pension of all others. Besides, it takes the highest. Minister to examine some of the statistics. The group he's talking about, young boys without roads, how much is he of the total pensioner population? For reviews and information for the House of Congress, though at the highest level. Ministers do not take so little to be here, then in 2014, 31,342 nursing staff were in 2014. The microenergy pensioners were all 16300. Some of these enjoy physical disability, some with spiritual disability. They're all ages. I feel like before the highest. A minister decides to appoint a group less than 48 points. a man, based on the figures of 2014, overlaps in the community because of some alleged risk that some distinct part of the group is young men who have been drawn into disability, as he put it this morning, or attached in a net, as he also put it, first owe us an explanation of the proportion of the 48 thousand that group is. I'm not sure he's more crowded than 2 grand. It would be very strange, if a theory were the highest. Ministers were going up, punishing the overwhelming majority of the group because it did not seem appropriate to improve the terms of any few from among them. The government could contribute, not only to the resources we made during the last term for training and study for this group of weightless young boys, but also to provide changes in a flexible labour market, especially if the words of the highest degree. It is true that a financial minister will have to pay for the loss of disability as a result of spiritual illness. Then there is a way to help people out. It's like the highest. Ministers and his members of the British Intensification Party overlook the fact that disability due to mental illness is just as valid a disability as any other disability. People who are sick who cannot work for a living are sick and cannot earn a living. True, there can be several catalysts in the system, as it is built today, that make people more difficult from disability and provide the way to disability, but it can't be said to be in general, like the highest power. The minister of finance stated that today, people of spiritual credulity were a little lower than those who are desperate because of physical disability. Once again, I must ask the highest. Minister: What is the ratio? Has he examined the proportion of the 16 Yous. micropunchers? As a result, how many are physically poor, and as a result, they are in the very second category in the eyes of the highest. Ministers but others who seem to be some underclass in his eyes? I think everyone who goes through the argument is seeing the highest language. In all respects, the minister of finance is unacceptable. It's unbecoming. Minister, he is the most unbecoming independent party. A minister leads, and he is directly qualified to promote prejudice toward those who are desperate for spiritual reasons. I wanted to remind you in this regard that if the government's will is to reduce the incidence of disability, then it's a project we need community solidarity on. V.E.G. A financial minister made this statement to the United States particularly this morning and said that it was difficult to get into the head of a group, as he put it so pleasantly, that various external circumstances could contribute to the increased incidence of disability. It is quite wrong and improper for him to say so. We have a clear understanding of that. He then made it a special subject and mixed it all up this morning as he normally does. He also linked this with the financial support of a rural society, which is a different kind of money. Some are right for all the basic necessities, but in other rural communities, the amount of social assistance is closer to the level of unemployment and everything. There are differing opinions within the Syndicate on how far such assistance or activity is wise to take. I think it's in general, so we think we need to be careful. Some may strongly object, but some feel that they can be justified and can offer valid reasons. In many parts of rural governments, we have established moderate systems to meet the challenge of getting caught in a poverty trap. The reason we need to be cautious about such matters is because we have an example of the superiority of our brothers and sisters. A British conservative minister has removed thousands of things from the United Kingdom by offering people jobs that they have no basis for doing what minimal assessment could have shown them to be unable to do. That's nasty. If conditions are too much for humans to measure, they can live in the best interests of such a situation. That's why we in the United States have wanted to be careful with that subject. Since we have come to use conditions, such as those found in Reykjavík, especially in Hafnarfjörður, we have made rich qualifications for professionalism in their case. I have now spent excessive periods of time in my speech on this matter, but I was completely overwhelmed by a scandal over words of the highest degree. Secretary of finance on the radio yesterday and this morning that it was inevitable to do so. This simply shows a nasty speech that does not belong in Icelandic society. V.E.G. Clearly, a minister has overindulged in his recent reading of the nonsense and repulsion that has grown up in Britain. V.E.G. Minister requested this morning that we discuss the economic sizes of this case. That is what I would like to do and bear in mind, the little brochure that comes with the financial bill, especially pp. 92 and onwards regarding funding for the major issues, management, tools, maintenance and investments, and how early expenses without irregular joints are expected to develop in the coming years. It reveals that all the noises of the highest legal committee and the highest level. The secretary of finance for increased contributions to pensioners, all the numbers, the total magazine by 100 billion in some undefined period, is inexplicably when real figures are analysed. In the article on page 19. 92 can be found a picture of primary expenditures with no irregular joints as a share of gross domestic product in 2002 ◯2019. It suggests that after a collapse, the proportion of the higher totals of the state's budget, i.e. pay without irregular joints and interest costs, below 25% in 2013 following the maintenance procedures of that government. At that time, it was good to mark a balance on state expenses. According to these programmes and this down-down-down image, the proportion of primary spending will be estimated to be 24% in 2016 and 23% of gross domestic product will be reduced to 2019. This means that this primary expenditure reduces from 2013 in 2013 to 2016 by 20 billion, and so on by another 20 billion to 2019 C.E. These are the figures that are available on the basis of the government itself. When you look at another picture on the same opening, see it on page 6. 93, for example, a picture of business development, recruitment, maintenance, and investments without irregular joints, without unemployment improvements in a black line that does not cover much, but tools are considered to be social security expenses, and this is the largest point of the team. What does that reveal? From 2013 on, continued contractions of costs are expected to decrease by 0.6% of gross domestic product over time. In other words, the plan of the government is to gather in the move in the years to come. V.E.G. The minister of finance and the head of the legal committee can come here and address themselves and say: Never a bigger centenarian number - as if a dollar was important - never more money to the welfare department, never more money to the Land Hospital, never more. - You know this song! In the area of course, at the highest. A minister in particular requested this morning to discuss, according to the plan to reduce the share of the amount of consumption that is likely to be spent, if taken together that will be primarily drawn up in welfare matters, by some 60◯70 billion from what was meant to be a risk of collapse on the basis of current prices and land production, since this is, of course, the only standard to be looked at. Of course, I'm happy if I do. The secretary of finance would like to discuss these key and facts and stop hiding behind the numbers and numbers that he rocks back and forth in time. This is the big ideological message on the top of the board of directors. It is normal to take them seriously.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u201	Mr. President. I have to agree with what. A senator thanking him for his speech. I discussed this in my speech this morning because the greater part is always groping over the progress of the government and is being seen to contribute more. It makes no difference what size we make. It's all right here, like what's wrong. Of course, when talking about the price of today's production and the production of the land, a senator traced it, and it's a little awkward. That may be their course, in contrast to our left people's policy, who want to maintain the combination on a certain level. In my opinion, this is a concern, and I hear what it is. A senator agrees with me about this, because most of it is the natural welfare spending under there. I think it must be so when senators howl of this that they have a little bit to think about that it's not only about, as one good man said, to cut off the box at the end of the day, but it's about all the factors we're tied up with as a community, as state partners to care for this community. I'd like to step back to the first part of my talk. A senator, wondering with him that when you review the reviews that come with the bill and we're dealing with a government that doesn't want to raise senior citizens and desperate people, they were asked to. ablation of valuable tax and medical products and tools. Now tolls are being dropped and paid off, and so on. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator did not think that it would have been more wise to go down there, since little else has happened in the affairs of these groups?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u202	A respectable president. Yeah, I think there's something to look at. In fact, the government has been incredibly focused on punishing underpayers with all the tax changes she has previously taken during this most elected period, and none of her tax changes have come out differently than a negative overall view for underpayers. You see, it's possible to do what you have to do. A senator points out, to use the tax system for income balance, and to meet the special costs of those whose feet are covered. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has said so many times when I have criticized him for the fact that there are no tax changes that benefit those under 250 of yours. K.: Well, they pay no taxes to the State. Of course, it pays a value tax of various resources, and you can find ways to do that by grouping. In this way, there are differences in the level of respect and respect for taxation, in order to meet special costs that are weighed down on those who are in the hall. As you look at the overall tax change, income tax changes have been attacked several times, and there has been a very extensive change in the income of large companies. The electricity tax is now being dropped on the industry, the fishing costs have been lowered, and the tourism services have been protected from collecting dollars from tourists. But all these changes, particularly the changes to the indirect taxes and the share of the food tax in that change, have been affected by means of provisions below 250 percent. K. and they haven't had any changes in income taxation. The level of damage in the child - welfare system has not been elevated, so people even begin to suffer at 200 you. K. If all of this is summed up, the government has provided tax reforms that are useful to those in the middle. I'm not saying that average carers are all over their share, but it is noteworthy that underpayers, including of course pensioners, are left behind so perfectly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u203	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. In this light, I want to reflect on the benefits of people who have been standing out here, including older civilians and older citizens. because they may be referred to the pension fund and that they should first take their income there and then at a insurance institution. Although there is an increase of approximately 2% per year, i.e. The share of the pension fund, we still have a whole generation living abroad, working housewives who have been there through the years, etc., which we have to meet, people who have not had the opportunity to put into a pension fund. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the council, whether he believes that the measures given in the case of the most ill, whether they are mentally ill or otherwise, have been discussed here with a number of other measures, such as education issues, etc., whether the state of education in the country is after the highest degree. A minister promoted a change in the system through funding, not part of the fact that we do not get sick young people back into the system or anything but to work. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator agreed that the workforce is not very interested in people with such problems, taking them part - time? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u204	A respectable president. Yes, it is. A senator to the workforce has no special means for people with impaired skills or particularly for this young group we are so informed about. I also find it unscrupulous by the secretary of the country to come here and make this group a subject, to make it known that because they exist, they justify keeping all other, pensioners, elderly, and micro-energy pensioners, in poverty trapes without any other measure, or any effort to reduce the number. Where's the money in it? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The schools are closing for people over 25 years of age. There are no new resources made on the side of the employment agency or on the side of the social service with the State's grant. It's unsatisfactory of the highest. Secretary of finance to make these people's misfortunes in political games here armed with one small act of improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u205	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A member of the United States and its chairman, Páll the Year's Árnason, for a very good speech, as well as for his contribution to the discussion this morning when he directed the inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of finance, chairman of the Independence Party, Bjarni son of Benediktsson. They discussed the declarations of the latter on the radio over the weekend for the development of disability in the country. It just got divorced in a case of the highest order. The minister of finance was making it virtually a game to be moved to disability, although he also pointed out that an increase in disability is partly reduced or might be explained by young men being driven out of a work market and broken down spiritually, diseases should be involved, so that these two things could come into existence. I'd like to direct it to what it is. A member of the council whether he believes that the work market is becoming more cruel and inhumane than it used to be. I have no doubt that in the 1990's there was a big change compared with earlier times. But is this happening again and becoming hard, or does it somehow become clearer to some extent by a more rigid and more difficult social environment? We know that because of high costs, low - income people find it difficult to attend medical services now. Where do these explanations explain why? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u206	A respectable president. The answers in the workforce as well as in the school system as they know, and therefore a wide variety of resources are needed to cope with the problem. As a social minister, I faced the threat that this mass would increase rapidly and much. That's why we've taken multiple measures. The first task was that I extended the period of rehabilitation from 18 months to 36 months so that longer time would be allowed to work with individuals who were on the road to disability so that they would not be determined in disability immediately. Then we created a vast number of new resources, 23 new resources under the name Young People for action, all of whom were funded from a unemployment insurance fund, and we took from finance to 800 million. K. on that task is the largest cut - down period in Western history. Although we were not blessed with all that money, we were willing to defend it in that way. We opened high school and do not cut down on them as we are now doing. We opened Iceland College, too. It is no coincidence that in 2013 a record graduate from the University of Iceland was published, with 35% more than in 2008. Why would that be? This is because governments decided to open schools, make opportunities, create new opportunities for people. Of course, a workforce is needed, and it needs cooperation with the workforce. The labour market is like a rough one. A senator is extremely inflexible, and this is a little strange, since, of course, the work market has costs of working recovery and disability as well as to do so. But this should be an incentive for companies, and they should be able to make up for a wide range of solutions. There are really no jobs available for people who want to do things by day, but none of us are 100%. I'm not, and I don't know what. Senator, he's probably in a higher percentage than I am, but I'm far from being 100%, let alone close to being 100% every day. We are different in nature, and all of us should be able to do what we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u207	V.E.G. President. No, I'm not 100% human, and I guess that's none of us when you take a close look. Now I know what to do. A senator has recently attended a meeting of co-editors in Europe, including some of them. No doubt these matters were discussed. He referred the note in his talk and gave an answer to a reaction in Britain, the government in the United Kingdom, that is, they seem to be getting stronger on this issue. Does he teach any changes in political landscapes regarding this attitude and the ultrasound that we heard at the secretary of finance here at the council and on the radio this weekend?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u208	A respectable president. It's an interesting thing to do with what's going on. Senator. I found this at the German party council of officers I attended last week that put much emphasis on increasing the ability and ability of people to contribute according to their varied abilities. It is noteworthy to see how the right wing in Europe and especially the United Kingdom is involved in these issues. The most unpleasant thing I've ever seen in a lot of my classes was the other day when they suggested that unemployment insurance become a special property, so if you hadn't paid on unemployment insurance, you'd get no unemployment money. Our firm stand has been that unemployment is a social operation, a result of changing work markets and changes in job development, and it is the duty of all of us to educate people to new jobs. But what's the Marine Party's message? Well, it's just your problem. It's being a disease area of unemployment, making it an individual problem, and I'm waiting. A senator to prove to me that it is not long before this also takes place in the Declaration of Independence, which appears to be in a ideological followed-up with the Habitat as never before.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u209	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk on a number of topics. True, I was a little surprised at how much she loved the British Attain Party and the night. A senator concluded that between what the British Real Party does in the respective litigation categories and the Independence Party, it is a mark. I don't know exactly why. A senator concluded this. So can I discuss what the British Labour Party has done and put the same symbol between them and the Syndicate? There's something to take. It is an enormously devastating category of leaders, and it will be nice to know if a comparison with the United States is normal. Hv. A senator referred to the improvements, and I think it is more appropriate to look closer when it comes to those factors. We're gonna do what we're gonna do. The legislators have received publicity from a insurance agency on what is done in other parts of the North countries, and this is where there is more to be seen. Also, his party sister, Björg Vilhelmsdóttir, did well over this during an interview that brought attention to a good reason, but the question is: Can I, so that he gives me a completely new friend in a political speech, conclude that I can apply all the points made by the British Labour Party in the United States? That may be the first question. Then there's a question number two. So we're going to do this professionally, so we know why. A senator who has made a great contribution, although there is, of course, much work that we can't do here, how does he support the improvement and the minimum wage? Does he feel that there is a higher, lower, similar improvement? Just a prince's question. And then, finally, because I've had a little debate with what I was talking about. Councilmen of the United States on private health care. What's the stand? A senator? Is he against private health care business?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u210	A respectable president. Hv. I'm sure a senator will not take any guidance from me about who he can teach me as my ideological leader here or there. [[Up front.]] That's why I'm not going to hide it from him but to point out to him that if he sees my ideological copy of any other category, he can quite make it a subject like me here. I pretend to teach it when the national financial secretary starts a campaign against all the country's pensioners, 48 yous. one, of 32 of you. senile transplant patients, because they are overwhelmed by a small number of young people who may be going into disability. That's a nasty saying. The concept that people have a choice to be on disability is being developed as a result of society's delinquency. There I teach a ideological position with the British Maintenance Party, and that's what I was doing here. Björk Vilhelmsdóttir has mentioned that conditions are possible in community assistance, which is quite different from social security benefits, and is worthy to discuss it as well, remember it, and not confuse the two. In terms of money improvement, I don't know if I can answer more in this answer, and the benefits of social security are to ensure adequate survival because people don't have a choice to be in on the benefits and disability pensioners especially may have to spend the rest of their lives. As a result, there should not be a gap between them and minimum wage.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u211	A respectable president. The union held a special celebration, a celebration at the Red Lion, when the British Engineer Party won the vote when Tony Blair and Gordon Brown were elected so that I can easily conclude that all the things that the bad politicians and especially that tragic statesman Gordon Brown have done in favor of each other have been done. A senator and the Conspiracy. I used to think that there were many topics in a talk. A senator, but I think it's the highest. The minister of finance is in a campaign when he has used himself for the increase in money insurance money in the way he has done at best, being very unfair, and the numbers speak for themselves. Humans can play the way they want to, but this is a 27 billion - a 22 billion - year increase. A cumulative increase especially in government decision. I didn't think that was clear enough for me. A senator with regard to improvement and minimum wage, says that the gap may not be too much, if it can be done a little better, as well as if it were a problem. A senator can say whether he is against his own health - care business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u212	A respectable president. First about the political lights. In case of a moment. A senator feels that I am recording something from someone else, whether it is the current leader of the British Labour Party or the previous, he can, of course, make it a publicity if he chooses. V.E.G. The secretary of finance, by moving the discussion of a comparable improvement for sensibilities and general disability pensioners in the field of discussion about some particular group in which he makes it necessary to have a choice of disability, is to bring this discussion down to the mud, and he is, of course, in a military campaign against pensioners when he refuses to admit that they as well as underpayers. [[Up front.]] In terms of the alleged goodwill highest. Minister and some tens of billions, you need a what? A senator just read the economic literature as the highest. A minister wanted to be discussed in this discussion. It shows that the plan is to draw up the cost of transfers, such as pension insurance as the proportion of GDP. That's the goal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u213	V.E.G. President. I was not aware that the Ministers of the government called on the meeting that was here, outside the International Assembly Hall today. While the Qualifications were there to emphasize their demands, the message was introduced to this group and to some others whose livelihood is dependent on financial contributions from a government fund through social security. I'm not gonna offer you anything, I said the highest. Prime Minister here. True, he was speaking, not directly to those groups, but to the opposition of the government, but to the battle at the council today. On this point, this long discussion of the budget is primarily held, what should be offered to those outside and others who are in a similar situation. The minister said, and it was very clear: I'm not gonna offer you anything. We were, however, the middle man, the government side, who was expected to deliver this message. Of course, this explains part of the long discussion that has already taken place on the budget. People are very serious, both in the front of the board and in the general community that there will be changes in the budget. We still have to accept the budget. There, the government united the proposal that 6.6 billion would be put, I suppose, has been, in order to increase disability and recovery to the elderly, in general, in a labour market. This seems to be a righteous requirement, and I have to repeat what I said in my first speech that this is not only a matter of justice but also a matter of reason because it increases the equality of society, makes little groups more useful, the money will flow into the economy and it will happen two things at once; the pleasure will flourish and grow in society, and everyone will benefit by applying a course from this hall that people consider to be righteous and justified. This explains primarily the long discussion of the budget. There are things you can stop at, which have been said for the last few hours on the subject and on the other hand. From the Speak of the Chairman of the United States, why. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's Árnason on disability improvements and the development of disability I opposed him and moved him to clarify his ideas there, and I fully agree with all that he said. He turned to a discussion in Europe that was moving to a similar convention on the right side, and we heard an example at the highest level. Secretary of finance on a radio show at the weekend and again this morning, and I had some disturbing speculations on my mind. Although it would be only for discussing this aspect of the budget, the lot of disability, and those with the lowest income in society, it would be worth standing here and discussing the matter in order to get in touch with the government and get them to reconsider their decisions. It's never too late to do that. I'm not one of those who believes that a filibuster is always evil. This has often benefited. I remember when we were able to do this room, I was in a position of government, to prevent the local government from privatizing the water and taking a law code around the water for radical reexamination with the right of private possession. It was natural to say then, as it always is always said in all debates that it is controversial that it was not changing anything, that men were interpreting or presenting laws that had been in force since the beginning of the century, 1919 I think it was, in line with the judgment of the century, and it may be right to emphasize the exclusive rights to increase in this period, and to use the opportunity to intensify that screw. Another matter that we had discussed for a long time was a matter that has been under consideration today, the Kingdom News. And I think that then the provincial government and the forwarding party made two or three attempts to change the State Radio, first a very brutal private development, pure and smart and self-settling, and then they reduced their thinking and put some democratic connections into this institution that we all finance together, and it's perfectly normal to be done. All those changes were beneficial. I don't think anyone shares it, nobody, that it was for good, i.e. changes to the bill as originally planned. On the other hand, the changes were to make the Kingdom News a public partner not wise in my judgment. In fact, I don't think it was a good part of society and should be reimbursed. Participation is the nature of a matter based on a society's enterprise, not one share as it is in the official partner society, and the benefits that may be with the partner do not come into the public society where one thing has come to the decision of one member, the minister of the local legal body. In fact, all of this has come into the Ministry of Economic Affairs now, but not as in the case of State Radio as a cultural institution previously under the Ministry of Education. We've talked a lot about health care, and it seems to be a different kind of person. I took up a case here the day after the newspaper published a great headline that it was to be recorded in the city of Reykjavík, by the health care department in Reykjavík, to accompany the patient's funding and to testify that the medical director of the capital health care has told him or shortly after his appointment at the end of his last year that he saw a market system operating under the wing of the Contestant Foundation. This all came to mind when I saw the News magazine, where Páll Paul Gunnar Paul Pálsson, director of the Contestant Board, expressed himself on the exciting competitive spirit that was being introduced into the medical system. In one way, however, I was wrong. I said the highest. Secretary of finance would have appointed Oddur Steinarsson director of the medical profession. That's wrong. It's the health care director who orders him so it was wrong, and I apologized for it, and I corrected it here. It was also wrong that I said he was the manager, I think I said it here that he was the head of health care of the capital area, but as I have said right now, he's the medical director. I think it's the title, anyway, that's the theme of his job. So it doesn't change the meaning of what I was saying is the same thing that I turned away from the fact that they had there a visiblely fit walk, the highest. The health - care minister and this fine man, the director of the medical field, were speaking in the same way, taking the health care unit to a similar direction in which the patient comes with money. Now, we can be sure that we speak for the new funding where the patients are and where the need is most, and in that sense we might reason that this is exactly what we are seeking. But it's a completely different arm than making it a systemal control device. That's a different thing. If the government and the government were consistent with themselves and had the financial support of the patients and responded to the needs of the patients where they were most and where they were available, they would be expanding their contribution to the land hospital to a far greater extent than they would be. We are told by the directors of the National Hospital that as a result of the proliferation and aging in Icelandic society, the need for services is increasing at the Land Hospital every year of 1.7%. This means that just to answer that need, the land hospital would need to expand by 930,940 million. K. It hasn't been done. Another thing I'd like to draw attention to is taking into account the cost of collective agreements when funded as we do now under the budget for health insurance contracts with private physicians. But when the Landsspioners, or heads of the Land Hospital, ask for a corresponding raise due to the cost of collective agreements in the privacy of the Land Hospital, it is not available, at least to the extent necessary. I'm thinking, it was the head of the Professor of the Land Hospital, I think I'm gonna be right about it, a man who's become so touchy about right now taking whatever I'd like to do right by himself, but he said in this article and during the interview with the State Hospital that the hospital would need to be at least 3 billion more than what is expected in the budget to be expected to be able to handle the normal hospital operation, it would be the minimum necessary to arrive in history. I know and know it well for the hospital, the operation there - and I'm sure we do it many, both through people working there, patients, etc., I think we all have some ties in there, the whole community has it - that the hospital doesn't get the money that we need to live up to the duties we want to rest on his shoulders. I think it's obvious. I know that in certain areas of the hospital, there are far fewer experts than there should be; in one department, there was one doctor who would have had to be four and the same in other places. There I refer to medical personnel, I know them, and I'm sure it's also in a series of nurses, although I don't know them as well, but in other classes and groups, this is the reality. I went back to the State Radio earlier. I have proved to be very worried about the State Radio, and not just because there is no way to meet the financial needs of the Kingdom Radio. Rather, I am curious about what may be happening inside the door. Are there any system changes there planned? There are ways in which health care can be done beyond those prayers. You can arrange for the launching of the Kingdom News as well as elsewhere. This is something we're going to discuss, not necessarily at this budget talk now, but we must ask what is happening in the coming year. I hope we have the wisdom to make changes that are good for the state radio. Of course, there are many other institutions and activities that I would like to take care of, while others have. Others have looked intently at the school system. I've been talking about law enforcement before. I think it's very important that there's good law enforcement here, and I'm particularly concerned if people get on the path to weapons of the weak police. There's no way to make her strong, there's a very treacherous way. But I welcome what happened at the highest. Minister of state, when the matter was discussed at the council. paritaprevir A few days ago, Páll's Árnason of Athenian, at which point he went. Ólöf Nordal's Minister of State stressed that there was no change in the intention of weaponsing the police to a greater extent than ever, and that's what I like. I liked hearing that, and I think it's very important that we can be united in the other way to strengthen and strengthen the police and then keep weapons away from the general police officer. V.E.G. President. With a little time left, I'd like to move on to one of the points related to my work at the council and to the council's administration and monitoring committee. It's turning to the U.S. Marshal's office. We on the committee have stressed and are speaking entirely parapoliticly, having the office as the strongest and the strongest, and we agree not to improve the role of the project which is to be prophylaxis, what is called initiative observations, observations made by an agent to see if a pot is broken or if it can be moved to a better source. We believe that there is a great preemptive value in the administrations in general. The secretary of the Generals has shown that he knows how to use his power, and we stress that there will be a change in the budget to meet his request to promote this aspect specifically, the prevention factor, the initiative research, and the need for an additional supply to the office of 15 million. K. I would like to finish this talk by pointing it to the question. The legislature board and the council refer to the vice president of the Committee, who sits here in the hall, hombre. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Thor Þór Þórðarson's son, to take this indication or request of the Allied Commission for a friendly opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u214	A respectable president. You can ask why. In his good speech, e.g. As far as Land Hospital is concerned. But I'd like to focus on two of the things he mentioned, one on the other, the contributions to the State Radio, and the other on the initiatives of the emissary of the General Assembly. You see, I don't really like the two faces. The government is not comfortable with the state's independent reporting. I don't think anyone's missing it. The scandalous speech of the minister and the chairman of the budget committee to the State Radio over and over again has called attention. We also know that the greater part has had to see behind one minister because of a failed profession, and this mistake was suggested by the initiative of the Council of II's emissary. During that study, both prime minister and secretary of the country had words that criticized an agent for his conduct in the leak case, for his priorities, and for the methods he used to study the release of information from it. Therefore, I would like to ask: Can we conclude from these two examples that the government is simply on some sort of semi-final means to weaken the diversity and the maintenance that it is supposed to be in a democracies society?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u215	V.E.G. President. Just a few words on each part, that's right. A senator recalls that certain words were brought down on the part of a government minister, the minister of the day. A senator refers to, in the presence of the U.S. commissioner, when a review was made of the initiative of an Allied agent. We looked at it with many serious eyes, and we put up a stand for the office. But I don't want to equal these issues. I believe that the reason for not seeing the wishes of the Generalist is general experiments to save. There has been some difficulty in the fact that the office over the years wants to drive it into another kind of practice, to use more tactics, and to do so successfully. But when it comes to this, I'd like to assume that a parapolitic body of government and surveillance committees, representatives of all classes, are entitled to promote this institution. The whole other arm is when it's the State Radio. It's really quite remarkable, and I can't imagine why the ill will that prevails in the government camp toward that institution is, as it turns out. I think it's totally incomprehensible and I think it's a clean campaign against this institution that we have to try to push.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u216	A respectable president. I hope so. A senator was right about the difference between the two, but he noticed that despite the distaste of the State Radio on the part of the directors of the Government and the chairman of the budget committee, all classes of the Government Radio Management Board have been formed to support the State Radio. But it seems like this, and we're seeing here that the front of the budget board members seems to be having more influence than the Ministers in this regard, controlling more than they do, and even putting its emphasis on the affairs of the State Ministry of Education above that of the country. In fact, it is taken into the hands of aesthetic building government and various other such factors. So you must ask yourself: " Where is my head and where is the tail of this bigger animal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u217	V.E.G. President. When discussing Our Kingdom News in these days and trying to figure out what is going on in the Council, it is like peering into Chinese politics in the past, trying to figure out where the threads are and who they really are. [[And who's in...]] I haven't always been happy with the state radio, and none of us have always been at peace with all the media in the country. It's all about the media because there are many people there, there are many factors, there are reporters, etc., cultures that we had different viewpoints, etc. In the latter century many employees have been misinformed, good workers have been suspended without our receiving any explanation we feel we have a right to, I believe we have the right to be the owners of this institution. But I'm incomprehensible to what it is, that the government has united against the highest power. Minister of education in the outworking of his suggestions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u218	A respectable president. I'm a little surprised to hear some verbal exchanges. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son and what. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's annual Árnason, speaking of the tightness of the agency of the Generals. It just doesn't make sense when you look at the numbers. They're also talking about some campaign against the VR. It was only in the budget that the company's debt was approved at 1.5 billion. They also received the extra advance, despite their failure to meet the criteria there, about 180 million. Mr. K., and in the time of this government, the donations have been growing as everyone knows, so I don't quite figure it out, but let's let it go between parts. Hv. A senator says that he is completely against the patient's financial support. There are now some organizations with such agreements, e.g. Nursing Center in Kopavogi, a health care center with the patient's financial resources. So it's natural to assume that, and I'm asking if I'm wrong. A senator when I say he must be opposed to the system in the Salatown. Also, the presidents of the Land Hospital have been calling, all of them, to prepare funding at the hospital. Sadly, that arrangement is not yet being accomplished, but we should hope that we can see it now, that is, the Biblical example, then follow the capitalization of action and, of course, follow patients too. Then I'll ask why. A senator of the two, whether I understand him properly, disagrees with the hospital directors in terms of the prepared funding and thus the patient's financial support as well as his disproportionateness with the conditions in the Salatown.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u219	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I don't like that arrangement being introduced into the whole health system, I don't like it. However, I realized in my speech that of course demand and the need for financial help to the medical institutions would need to be taken into account. Thus, in that sense we would be talking about the patient's financial support, in that sense, that should be taken into account their viewpoints. However, we are faced with the issue of whether we should introduce this as an incentive to the system in general. Hv. A senator did not realize that, as he expressed it, the position on the emissary of the Generals. That's very clear. We're talking about it going to take 15 million. K. as well as from what is suggested... [[Up front.]] He says he doesn't realize something he's asking me about, and I'm trying to answer it. He doesn't realize who's involved. I say we think it takes 15 million. K. In addition, for the agent to take the initiative. However, I said of the Agency as such that it had been squeezed, including had a more selective approach and a different kind of practice. I was saying that in many ways it had worked, I'm separating. But I'm telling you, we need these 15 million. K. In addition. About the State Radio, I'd like to ask you why. A senator: Is he saying that he disagrees or agrees with the highest degree? The minister of education what emphasizes his fear, if he might want to start answering that end?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u220	A respectable president. It does not seem that these institutions are being pressured into things, such as the emissary of the Generals, who performs a very good job. I think most people if not everyone agrees on that, maybe not all, but a lot, and including me. Of course, it is important that what, for example, is perfectly clear. I think everybody's in there, and I think both institutions are doing it, and I don't know what they're doing, and I don't think they're both gonna write it down from both sides. But I like that this is happening, so it's clear to me. A senator disagrees with the arrangement in the Salatown area and disagrees with the head of the Land Hospital for the process of financing, that's just the way it is. I don't make any remarks about it, though. A senator disagrees with me. For the State Radio, I agree with the government budget and that's no secret.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u221	V.E.G. President. Sometimes I wonder if I will. A senator does not listen to what I am saying. In my case, it was not that the office of the Generals had been too tight. I was saying that funding was given in the mind of promoting other types and possibly less expensive practices. That change would have occurred. Now people wanted to reconsider the situation, and now they wanted us to expand our ministry with emphasis on initiative. That's what I was saying. For the Land Hospital, the Salastown, and the Land Hospital in particular, I don't agree with the Land Hospital, I pray. A senator listening to what I was saying about the need to be taken into account, including the patients and the financial situation, and the hospital needs to be done. I spent some time explaining it, but I didn't want to make this a part of the whole system. [[The president calls.]] He doesn't understand. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u222	This is very easily understood.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u223	[[The president calls.]] I thought it was very easily understood, I know the highest. The President understands this well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u224	Mr. President. This has been an unusual discussion for a long time, and not an unforeseeable one. I never remember the fact that a budget bill was presented in a more dramatic way than we've seen here. In the last days, it has been observed that despite the fact that a budget has been given a very small amount of time, large joints have been forgotten, even running to more than a thousand million years. which, of course, gives us reason to discuss the matter much better than has ever been. Here, too, much discussion about the cruel treatment of the highest degree is required in terms of the budgetary budget. A government has to do with the elderly and the poor. People at the council, at least Of course, the government's administration and individual senators are amazed, surprised, wounded, angry that the elderly and desperate are the only group in the community that cannot repay in a way, all others get it. That's what I wondered about because of what. One experienced Christian may feel that it is possible that the elderly and the desperate may have been forgotten and that this is just a coincidence or may seem a reason. A senator there is the highest. A government to show its true face toward the elderly and the poor? I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament: Does he believe, after the government of the Land Hospital has just as clearly made clear its case as the need for 3 billion more to the Land Hospital to be properly controlled, to consider that the government's government has been discussing the budget until the government has left something available in that case? Are we not speaking in terms of justice and reasonableness? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u225	V.E.G. President. Yes, we are speaking in terms of justice regarding the elderly and the desperate, but this has been the case with a great twist. We heard the vice form of a financial committee answering me in an answer just moments ago. I was offering reasons for the lack of 3 billion in the Land Hospital business, 3 billion for him to care for new patients who came to life each year because of the proliferation and aging of society. I was trying to reason on this. What was the conclusion of the vice president of the General Fundament Committee? That I disagreed with the governor of the Land Hospital for financing. Yet, I had spent much time trying to explain the reasons why I wanted to meet their wishes and demands, and I believe that I am there much harder on a boat than the vice president of the budget board. Whether or not they have forgotten. They were not forgotten because the forgotten school system was fixed. The poor and the elderly, there are no indications that they should not improve or correct the alleged error because there was no error. I'm sorry, this is resolve.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u226	Mr. President. V.E.G. The minister here laments and complains that the government's situation is not objective. What is the situation of the government? She's fighting for the rights of the elderly and the desperate. She is trying to drive the government out of the way and to make sure that the elderly and the desperate are not around, the only group that cannot be reformed in the same way as others. And what do you say? Councilmen of the forward party? What does it say? paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, who sits in the hall and has to sit under these fortunes and look up at her own highest. The prime minister shakes his head as if he cares completely about the elderly and the desperate. For this reason the government's post stands on the front line to make this tall sir know that the elderly and the desperate have their strong words at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. And I'm asking why. A senator again asked the same question as I asked the first time about raising funds to the Land Hospital: Does he believe that it is possible for the government to spend a night and go home to Christmas unless there is more to the Land Hospital?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u227	V.E.G. President. I want to agree with what. Senator. I think it's fundamental that there will be a change in the budget as a matter of course. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson speaks for. We are not going to run the Hospital in the way we now see it with resignations and contractions in our ministry. That's the reality that's ahead of us if that is not going to be corrected. I must also say that I find it unappreciative if the Allied council approves money and funds that do not match the people outside the door fighting for their rights and fighting for justice. Of course, we are to be on hand with these people, for that is how we stand with ourselves and in our modern society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u228	President. There's a lot to discuss in this case, since the budget bill is the largest bill a year pronounced at the General Assembly. In the past winter, we have put it this way that we were talking about the biggest things that were meant to produce the stability potential when men fought on the stable tax and put on more of their chief enemies they had called vultures, a respectable president. [[Take it up: Hypocrite.]] They called them vultures. They fought to pay them 39% taxes. Instead, there are demands on the country to agree to these fixed donations, one of which is absolutely lacking in a few details of the budget here. True, these contributions are not to be used in everyday matters but to pay off debts; yet, you would have assumed that there would be something more about them in this bill. It's not. There are a number of prime radios that present these days on the financial scale. We've been discussing public finances. We spoke in our government budget. The minister of finance complains that the budget is not discussed and compared with the current financial programme. I didn't quite realize if he wanted to praise the government budget being carried out on the bill. Certainly, after the adjustments here, it seems to me that the result of a government fund is not as good as laid up, the rest will not be as great as laid up in our budget. This is despite a growing income. I'd like to say in general and general about this national budget that I think I'll be pleased with it every time the budget does not match that plan, because it clearly reflects the economic policy of the government, which is to cut down on the joint tasks, cut down on the welfare system, the education system, the health and what it all is all about to fall under the welfare system. The plan of a national budget is to put together the share in the country. It should be down to 23% in 2017 or 2018. This is very serious to me. When we discussed this case, I was amazed that we were standing here one of the most part, members of the government resistance, and talking about this financial program, and little was heard in those who support the government, especially by members of the forward party who are willing to cooperate, even at times, to have a sense of equalness in their hearts. On the other hand, they would sit quietly and still sit quietly and support a government that is bent on reducing the welfare issues, the foundations, the things that I and my party members feel normal, or all of us are on the same team. It's the great government budget at the highest level. The secretary of finance misses that we compare our budget, which aims at the fact that the consumption of blood will be no more than 40 billion lower than in 2019 today. A national budget is like the basis for this bill of earning money, which becomes more experienced in the comormins, which we call "normal people don't understand, " which is the basis on which the financial bill is based, including the income raise. This bill suggests that in two years, there will be a resolution of the step - by - step tax system in this country and from three paces to two steps. What does that mean? That means paying taxes to those with the highest intermediate income. They tend to reduce most of the people who earn a lot of money. They even lower the tax burden on those who make the highest income in the country and remind of the others in the lowest income categories. That's what they say. The secretary of finance may not have a sense of obligation because they do not pay taxes because of the public fees they pay in an outback. And now to raise the answer. It is likely, then, that there will be still more people to see. The Minister who pays no taxes because it pays the answer. Like the people who don't have enough and barely end up together, I'm going to say, if the public fees they pay, they're going to run into the countryside or go straight to the state box. But since I'm talking about it, it comes into what has actually been mentioned about this bill, which is that in many respects is incomplete. Therefore, after the discussion is stopped, we have called the committee and the bill is complete. This weekend, the necessary change in income exchange was met with a agreement between the states and rural groups, 1.5 billion to be added to the rural groups. It's necessary. I'm sure I'm glad that this agreement has been reached, and I'm sure it's not possible for the locals to handle this sort of thing. But that doesn't change the fact that it makes this budget bill that we're supposed to be dealing with and accepting incompletely. Therefore, what has been discussed in this discussion is that we will stop the discussion and we will return to the Committee and that the bill will be complete. In addition to this, this 1.2 billion or more is because it forgot to take into account the teacher's agreements. It is virtually incomprehensible that those in charge of a council hall should not see what it would do for all jobs if the committee came together and the bill went to the realization that it was more accomplished than it really is. All of this is a bit affordable, especially in view of the fact that the chairman of the legal committee went a lot earlier in the winter and thought that the council would get all too early together, there would be no need for the council to get together as early as it would be because there had been nothing to do. Chairman of the budget board. This is certainly true, so the council can't get together until the fall. Congress is scheduled for another Tuesday in September. The second Tuesday of September was September 8th. Surely, the chairman of the legal committee has had all the time and length than ever before to submit to 2nd. A full bill, not a half-assed bill, as it turns out. Although it's like this and we're talking about it, there was a lot of complaint at the beginning of this meeting today that this was a lawsuit. V.E.G. Prime Minister said: "You can talk as you please, we don't offer you anything. What were they saying? Invite us in our position of government? What are we first and last to demand in our discussion? We are first and last to demand what we also talked about in the budget, and it is that the elderly and the poor sit at the same table as the rest of us in this country when it comes to a raise. That's what we demand. We say to the government: The raising of the elderly and the disability of the elderly from May 1 through the same percentage that others received on May 1. That's what we're asking for. Then we ask that, after that, the budget bill will be fixed to the remuneration that has been negotiated for people in the labour market next year. Then the prime minister says, "We don't offer you anything. " It's like whisk. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son expressed it earlier, meaning that the prime minister is saying to the elderly and desperate: We do not add anything. This will not be any of the things the government is talking about, there won't be anything left in it, there will be no retrospective payments from May 1, that will be 9.7% on January 1, 2016, in place of a ten point of some 1st of 2015. Then we are expected to convey the message to the elderly and the desperate person that they don't offer them anything, because this is the main requirement we have in the air, a respectable president. This called the prime minister to the Assembly Hall today, the modesty that he shows at times or perhaps the other while the elderly and desperate men were standing outside and reminding them that they had been left behind, that this government is going to leave those people behind. Then there's talk about filibusters and stuff like that. These men don't seem to care about people. Hv. The minister of finance said this on a radio show yesterday and repeated it this morning: There will be no more for the elderly and the desperate. So it might be said that we should just say, "Well, they say this, these fine young men. " Because there is one grief in all of this that here is the government of young people I find worse than the old men 20 or 30 years ago. They are worse than they are, and look beyond themselves, and they don't understand that being a minister is not to rule over others, to be a minister is to serve the people of the land, and to think of the people of the country, but not about themselves and their glory and their ass, if I may say so, a respectable president. Sadly, these young people do not understand them. It doesn't make any sense, thinking it's all about being on cool cars and riding around and making it rain in your nose. Unfortunately, it is so in my opinion, a respectable president. All of these, however, are fine people. But do not put their power to good use. That's for sure. Then there are a few things other than the elderly and the desperate, that I want to come in and how money is given to them. First, I want to talk about the health system. They talked about the medical system here before and what. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson's son was talking about what he said. paritaprevir Guðlaug save Þór Thor Þórðarson. What I would like to say about the funding of the health system is this: It is absolutely necessary that the same system be used by independent medical personnel and clinics in the country. We're in and we're going to have an official health system. Not only does independent doctors, whether they are specialists in heart disease or in family medicine, or clinics that are thus financed by what is called the pursuit of funds, while the public health institutions are in some entirely different system. The service agreements with independent operating physicians cannot be concluded that if the number of patients is raised, they will be paid to the top, but if the number of patients is growing in the public institutions, they will not be paid to the top. The governor says that he needs 1 more to take care of just the age of the nation. Obviously, it is not enough to ignore it and say that it must be taken from something else. Of course, the land hospital must be paid accordingly, just as internally functioning doctors are paid if the application is to increase, so to speak. It has to be the same system. That's all that's going to work. For many years, it has been delayed to start a new land hospital that would have had to happen a long time ago. Why was that? It may not be easy to recall, but one reason is that they could not agree on where the land hospital should be. Yet, there are three committees that have considered this. All of them came to the same conclusion that the land hospital would best be placed down on Ring Road. Nevertheless, even the prime minister himself is talking about the wrong location, and it needs to be reinvented, and this and that need to be done. It knows everyone who knows about these things, and something's been thinking about them that if they're about to start looking at a new location, that means another 15 years of waiting. All of this has now occurred, however, many years ago; it has been calculated that it is so expensive to have the hospital in two places, mostly two, I think the hospital is actually in 17 or 19 places here in town, and then all 15 of them. Some years ago, four, five years ago, it was said that if the entire operation would be in the same place, it would save the hospital 2.2 billion a year. Then I remember one of the wise men who said in the Senate Hall: "Like expenses for health care, if that happens, will not continue to rise. Of course it would. What was talking about was that if you're in the same place and with everyone in one place, instead of two, it's saving. Then, in normal calculations, according to the interest of the hospital spending 50 billion a year, this is a significant savings, relative to the status of quot. Besides, I'm afraid it's been drawn this long, because how much is the hospital gonna cost? It may cost 80 billion, and it's 50 billion. If we're buying a house and we have 10 million, or we put it down to 5 million, I know it's not easy to buy a house if you buy 5 million a year, but if you have 5 million and the house costs 8, it's not a huge insurmountable investment. It is strange, then, that we have been able to make it appear for many years that building a new hospital that would not only be less expensive but also safer. That's one of the most disturbing things about right now, or not trouble, since of course the hospital staff sees that patients are safe, but it's going to take a lot more effort in this situation than if we had perfect hospitals. Happily, they are now looking for improvement. Soon a new hospital will be started. I believe most of us celebrate. But only at the end of this. I think I'm right about the fact that in maintenance of the Land Hospital, there's an estimated 470 million or something like that, not much more than that. It has been pointed out in recent days that if State Realty takes care of all the houses owned by the Landstors, as many government companies do, rent from the Realty of the State, and then they see state Realty over all maintenance and make sure everything's okay, then I'd have to pay rent. But there's no connection. The address is, as you know, unsanitary. Government officials keep talking about how much money has been paid to the Land Hospital for the past few years. Sadly, much had to be done in the collapse of the Land Hospital. I think the Landspians did a great job there during the first few years. But it was gone too far. It takes time to earn up. We need to make sure that it is done. It's a national hospital, which people like to call and I like to hear about the hospital, or I love the word Lands Hospital so much that I don't feel like it when people talk about the national hospital, but it's a cool word and a good use of it. Then I'm going to talk to you about the state radio. I don't think it's surprising that people who are following political discussions and who write about it and dogs sometimes follow people about funny things - I don't understand what's going on in the government with the Government Radio. Is it really so that the Minister of Education gets the bill that the radio rate will remain the same next year, 17 of you? and something. ... ona nose tax, not through with the government? Stands at the top. With his platoon brother, don't you think the secretary of finance is trying to get this bill through? I think it's incredible. In the early autumn, many of the candidates spoke in such a way that we had no need to fear that the government radio would be hard enough, that would be necessary. I remember hearing what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason says that there is no danger that it would be difficult to accept the State Radio. But we're looking at something else. That disappoints me. I don't know if I'm supposed to say it surprises me, but I thought that men were more loyal to their governments than to having the Minister of Education put up a bill of this kind, which, of course, is important to him to come through the government, and they're going to stop it. I think it's really weird. Then there are some things that may not be as large as those in whom I have discussed so far; elderly and desperate; Land hospital; Kingdom broadcast. For example, let's take this so - called museum group that we were running around in the last term, and we could arrange for politicians not to have their fingers handed over to them and there, but they would go into the Ministry and be assigned from there to those who are known, who know the work we have at each time, but that would not be politicians with their fingers in it and glee, I'd like to let me tell friends and colleagues, though it should not be said, lovers of their voters and voters in particular. This has now been partially moved back. The budget board is back in charge here and there. This is so that it appears to be most distributed in the northwestern district. Perhaps this is because some members of the Parliament who have much power in the budget are from just the northwestern district. Now I'm not going to say that there's no need for that money. I'm not going to sit on a judge's throne about it, but that's not the way it should be decided. It is quite a setback, and it is really funny that this is happening at the same time as in the same days that the budget committee seems to have been making some appointments before noon and after noon, they discussed a bill on public financial matters. Don't people realize before noon what they're doing after lunch? Perhaps it would be better to have public financial support before noon, so it had an idea about the afternoon on how to handle public finances and how they are assigned. Then there are the funny things that many have mentioned, as are the 75 million that are brought to the Generals to compete for a building in the World Congress. Then a dignified financial committee says that its plans are to be followed by a man of Samúelsson's son who is more than 100 years old. This proposal never made it to the council. It was presented in the government on April 1. There were many who claimed by day that it had fun April clubs, but the government wasn't quite a thumpforladet. It turns out it's not. Then it's recorded in the budget bill. As noted many times in talks, they have no power, and they are not to be ignored; they are to be overlooked by this strange sentence. I'd like the rest to come to the U.S. Marshal who drew my attention during the last term, but then I sat on the Board of Directors and Controls, and actually made it until our last spring. This caught my attention during the last term, when much was gathered everywhere and cut down that Aldulis's agent was always on his side. It was not default for institutions to be cut down and to live by what they were assigned. But U.S. Marshal Alllis always did so. Now comes the budget board and wants to cut down 13 million from that ideal institution. I understand that's because an agent has entered a more favorable facility. Yet, the influence of an agent and the ability to be good may not be reflected more than during the past year when an agent took a look at the intervention of the Minister of Ministers of the Police Director and Others in the initiative check. That's exactly what they've said, and that's why a board of directors and board of directors puts it to raise this office by 15 million, so that the office can better take part in the initiative. I think it's strange how the budget is doing with its proposals for the most important office. I've finished my case, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u229	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. She started her case with the tax political that the government represents. When we've been discussing one of the big things that were taking place in the discussion, in the older citizens, and in their conveniences, it has been observed that the tax changes made are not in their interest. The answer to a financial minister has been that the lowest paid no taxes to the State. It's kind of odd when you're only saying that if the lowest level had been dropped by 1.4%, but not by 0.8%, it would have returned on a yearly basis around 35 thousand to microorganism instead of just over 5 you. K. Of course, moving the lowest for lesser ones is a choice. The secretary of finance is not correct, except for those of you who are completely less than 200 grand, except for the thresholds we know in child reforms, etc. I'd like to ask the senator about this, and especially about the tax reductions above his head. Does she now think it is wise to do so, and does she feel that it can cause social expansion? With regard to older citizens and desperates, the Commission's review of the Quantum Commission to the budget bill shows that they want to reduce their worth tax on aid and medication, preferably decomposition, but if not, they will be reduced to the lower level. [[The president calls.]] Does not the senator think that it would have been better than, for example, a delinquency of customs on TVs and other items that have been decided to do and have been done? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u230	President. In general about the tax reductions and how they are introduced, it is clear that this government is not in its terms on tax issues, whether it is to cancel customs or to remove certain classes from a higher level of value taxation, to think of those with the lowest salary rather than in anything else. She even stepped into the collective agreements last spring, and I might like to say it, so she smuggled in her administrative policy to reduce the taxes most to the highest intermediate population. The number of people at the highest intermediate level decreases most in taxes. This is where she comes in and gets the company of the labour market and they say, "This is part of the bargain agreements. I've only felt that there's nothing to criticize because it's part of the collective agreements. I would have thought this should be completely different. I would have thought that they should have cut down the insurance and that their jobs should pay themselves for the pay they represent, not smuggle a policy of this sort into collective agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u231	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. You see, that's the thing. As with so many other sources, the funds here are being smuggled through various system changes, which are, of course, very unfortunate. But with regard to these tax issues, aims, and looks, in the little publication that follows the budget, on page 18. 93 and 94 with fine pictures, it says that tens of billions of dollars are being cut down, and this is ahead. It's really an important political bitch, but it's maybe the right politics, the ide that's best revealed, to reduce the consumption of the combination. Of course, well - beings are the biggest and most successful. This is how these two pictures appear on page 20. 93 and 94 that it is cutting down the combined consumption of some 60 in the billions of dollars from what it was for collapse to the current price level and national production. That's no small thing, a respectable president. We're going down 1.5%. People have often been considering what the last government did, and the current one and people allow themselves to compare the situation here in 2009 with what is now 2015, all of which is, in many respects, everything else. In fact, about 2% of GDP is being cut down while we cut down 1.5% in all the conditions we had. I think the discussion is a little out at sea. I want to go somewhere else, i.e. for those who have problems, mental problems, or other factors. The hospitals are overcrowded here and in the north, by people who really don't belong there. I feel like there's a problem with aging. I feel that there is no way for aging. I now received a thorough answer to my inquiry on the subject, which is far less expensive at the moment than to be with people in the most expensive space, apart from that, so many people just don't go to doctors because they don't have to. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u232	President. It makes no sense that the government says, "We're cutting this down, and you're cutting down more." There's nothing to compare the terms of government back then and now. Now we're in a swing. I would have wanted to use her to add what we had to cut. That's exactly what the national budget told us in spring. She said, "This is government policy. It is the policy of government to reduce taxes to those who have it best and to reduce contributions to the combination. It's just a board of directors. We have nothing to be surprised about. We may be surprised that people chose this over them. It surprises me a little bit. However, the policy of the government is to cut down the welfare issues, to reduce taxes to the forework, to take from the wealth tax, to put the most penalty on those who cut it, nothing to the rest, and nothing to the elderly, and nothing to the desperate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u233	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a nice speech. It included various factors, including the position of the Land Hospital, our national hospital. I liked what she said in her case, that she wanted the same system for independent doctors as in the public health system. What has been happening is that the public health system has been becoming very ill, aware and secret. This now manifests itself in financial terms when it is assumed that private health care can be taken into the capital area and is being promoted. An understatement panel 1 shows that in comparison between OECD countries and Iceland with financial maintenance, housing and equipment purchases and other developments, we are at the lowest, the same place as Greece and Mexico. On average, the OECD countries contribute 0.5% of the gross domestic product to this team, while Iceland and I are only 0.1% of GDP and are not in the best place, based on our being in the same place as countries like Greece and Mexico. I'd like to hear from what. A member of the Parliament on the increase of private affairs clear and secret, sort of behind the scenes, without discussing them at the General Assembly, and where is the future for our National Hospital, if you continue to look.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u234	A respectable president. Now it's clear to me that this is a mixed business, private business and public business. However, we naturally have an official system in that way so that all of this is more and less paid from government funds. In that respect, the system is official. True, much has increased in recent years as to what patients must pay themselves. I think it's a special research project to take a closer look at what it's like. What I hate about today's discussion is that we don't really know what people are thinking. I think it needs to surface. I think a health minister needs to make the council, and we realize what he's thinking and what he's thinking. Is it not said that three clinics are to be prepared? Is there new stations? I don't know. Is it any of the stations that are now operating? I don't know either. But I must wonder about it because there is no new funding to come into the clinic. Yet this is one of the necessary things to do, i.e. to improve health care so that people can go there first, and health care will be the gate for all other health care services in the country. That's extremely important. But we do not know how a minister will do that. [[The president calls.]] Sadly, the law allows him to decide more or less for himself and does not have to ask a body of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u235	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I thought why. A senator put it quite well when speaking of a government of young people who had no understanding of such matters as older citizens and poorer ones and so many other things and who would not be successful in exercising their power. It has, in my opinion, been expressed in the words of the highest. The minister of finance when he spoke in the sense that microchip was growing too much, as if it were just a machine and everything was headed for disaster, and that so far these groups could have survived what was available. This is what I've noticed in their presentation. V.E.G. The prime minister declares that there is nothing to negotiate, acting as if it were something special for us in the smaller part rather than the second - to - second groups that are so desperately needed because they have fallen behind and are not enjoying the same discretion with the economics and other social groups. I'd like to stay on this matter for a minute. This is one of the things that we in our administration will fight for, to improve the interest of older citizens and disability, until the last minute. It is our job to protect these people from understanding by their current rulers in these litigators. They are somehow so realistic about the people who need to live on that low wage. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u236	A respectable president. The discussion here this morning and to some extent on some radio show last night about disability - I think it was said that working people would have no more to play than microchip, and it would be naturally gaseous. An eagle will need the same to survive and to survive working people. That's it. As the discussion continued, young men would not work, get stuck at home, I don't know if it was said that they were always in video games or what they were, and became desperate. I think that was the argument. A respectable president. If this was true and it was so, let's attack the lesion and figure out what we can do for these young men and young boys who stick at home. We tried. During the last term, they were tried with a variety of tasks, activities in that area, and names. Let us, then, take to heart the root of the problem that is very serious if it is true. But my Lord, to begin to assume that humans simply become poor because they don't want to work. [[The president calls.]] It's so rude, I'm not going to say anything more about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u237	V.E.G. President. After most of the anger reading. Prime Minister today that there is a debate over the budget of his government I'd like to say that when I gave my first talk to the budget bill, as I've always done, I spent a considerable time at the beginning of my speech in reviewing a number of economic factors that are extremely positive at this time. The outside circumstances are very positive, and much is being done with us Icelanders, who, fortunately, make it possible for humans to see better financial laws. Now I do not remember the exact date of that discussion, but I included an example of a 60% reduction in global prices on oil and said how deeply the population was affected by the need for us to import much, the outputs, the airplanes, the jets, etc. Since this speech was being held, I have to say that it changes significantly about the economy that it is not a 60% reduction in global prices today but probably close to 75% after the last days, or since the OPEC countries, you have found about ten days ago and that you have a better chance of limiting production. In addition, the Irish start to come into the market when their business has ended, and then we can see what happens. As I said at the outset, we listened to an angry reading. Prime Minister today. Here I am giving my second speech, and at the beginning of my speech, there is no one in the hall except the president of the General Assembly who has to sit, and the vice president of the United States, in the front and the front. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir joins the hall. I would have wished, more dignified President, the chairman of the budget board and vice president, why. The members of Vigdís Hauksdóttir and Guðlaugur, Þórðarson, were in the hall and listened to my speech. I intended this time to divide her into two parts, one to discuss health matters, and one especially the Land Hospital and the other to continue the affairs of the elderly and the desperate, i.e. The social security system. As I said, I would have liked them to be in the hall because I'm going to go through a team pushing what is being said in the Committee program of the greater part about a 30% rise in the hospital, as they are dressed. They are actually decorating with stolen or even counterfeit feathers. There's not a 30.1% change from the 2013 budget bill to the bill we're discussing here, it's simply wrong. I'm gonna go over it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u238	The president would like to state that the vice president of a financial committee, Guðlaugur - Þór Þórðarson, has been notified of a wish. Senator. A vice president of the Committee is in a house and should be able to hear a matter at a time. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u239	Maybe I should just wait?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u240	The President wants to, without wanting to go here in general discussion, report what. A senator has been notified, and the president expects him to be here soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u241	I appreciate that. The chairman of the budget board is probably not coming, as I guess we're gonna figure out who's on the watch tonight. Before I take the matter of the Land Hospital, I have to say that I find that more of the budget is being treated on the budget bill by contrast. It has been observed that significant parts of a large sum of money have been forgotten, and since then there have been little real discussions about three new institutions that have become more important. In Strasbourg, which last government shut down and felt enough to have one in France instead of two, the reimbursement is being opened, and so is being set up by a travel agency or some sloth. In other words, there is an increase in government spending in this regard. A respectable president. I'm going to go back to the hospital. As stated in the Summit of the greater section, this table refers to an increase of 30.1% in the country's Hospital, and it is called a dramatic increase in the number of cases in the history of the current government, according to this table. In my opinion, it's wrong. Hospital contributions as a proportion of total government expenditures have declined from 9.4% in 2013 to 6.8% in 2014, or about 28%, when the provision of S-drugs for Iceland's Health Insurance has been considered in 2009. The 2015 budget is 7%, 3.5 billion, or 3.5 billion. less than 2008 on solid prices. The 2015 budget is 11%, 5.2 billion. K. less than 2008, when fixed prices are corrected for key projects brought to the National Hospital of 2008 and 2015. The 2016 financial bill we are discussing does not indicate any change in this position. Since 2008, for example, the population of the capital area has increased by 6.7%, of which the population of 70 years and older has increased by 13.2% and 80 years and older by 19.4%, respectively. The population in general has increased by 4.3%. There is a time when the health - care cost is very rapid, and the frequency of long - standing diseases has increased and the need for service has increased. On average, demand for the service of the Land Hospital grows by 1.7% a year. According to OECD, the contribution to health was 2013 as a proportion of GDP 8.7% in Iceland. At the same time, it was 11% in Sweden and less than 9% in Norway. According to OECD, the GDP in Sweden was about 6% higher than in Iceland, but the difference in contribution to health was 26%. The OECD countries spend an average of 0.5% of gross domestic product for investment in their health systems. This ratio was in Iceland less than 0.1% in 2013. It is lower than in Greece, where difficulties have been greater than in Mexico, which was at the lowest in this comparison of OECD, where Iceland was above in secondmost place. That same year, Danir almost 0.7%, Sweden almost 0.6%, and Norway spent almost 0.5% of their investments in health care, 2013. Budgets 2014, 2015 and budget bill for 2016 do not indicate much change. Given the current budget bill, less than 3 billion dollars are missing. to run a Land Hospital ▪ College Hospital during 2016 and to maintain similar services and equipment. This is defined as a total of 1,400 billion. K. lacks maintenance and new construction, 1,040 million. K. to meet a general demand increase of 400 million. K. to continue building tools and 400 million. K. to attend the expense of a new labour contract by doctors for working hours, but remunerations under the financial bill are not expected of this amount. In fact, much of the legal committee's mention is that there is some debate between the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of finance. Then there is no consideration of the cost of reducing a list already suggested by the Landskeeper, which is discussed in these changes, some 840 million. The k., which I am very happy about, is enough to say that there was a need. In June 3,616 subjects waited for cataract surgery, 739 for knee replacement surgery, 454 for hip and 202 primary surgery, including coronary heart and/or coronary angiography. In other words, 840 million people are to be put in this, according to the adjustment of the majority, which, of course, should be a cause for rejoicing. Remember, though, that the list of waitings is so long because of what has been going on over the past few years because of the hospital's lack of funds. It's not true here, and I've been taking over the 30.1% that the majority of the legal committees are kissing off. It's simply wrong. I've been over it and shown that it, for example. in the cost-separated financial bill, including paybacks of less than 4.2 billion, this number is immediately reduced from 11.6 billion to 7.4 billion and will still be treated with additional expenses for the financial agreements written by the Ministry of finance in agreements with healthcare professionals. This is now the situation, a respectable president, regarding the Land Hospital. I find this to be quite remarkable when the government sector at Parliament boasts of this. You should read the thistles that the president of the Land Hospital publishes every Friday. He published one after visiting the World Fundament Committee to discuss matters there and to follow his own steps. That was then. The head of the budget board, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, allowed himself to say, after being told by the head of the hospital and the delegation who came from the hospital to explain the situation and to speak to a financial committee, that this group had used - I never knew if it was one or more part of the hospital or a financial committee of all - spiritual violence in arguing their claims, including. with the figures I've made for talk about. It is of great interest for the High Council to consider the welcome of members of the committees. I'll take this as an example because the General has a great need for the members to give reviews about the bills of the bills and visitors to follow up on matters, such as the president and the hospital team, when this was the reception. The hospital director has clearly provided the number I covered here, and he is missing into his next year's budget bill. A respectable president. I also said that I was going to turn older people's affairs into talk again, i.e. The social security system. Then let me first say that in the time of this government, in May 2013, the non-surgent currency payments from taxes have increased by 10 of you. Q, or 162 yrs. K. of 172 you. K. In this, the administrative body is flying again and talking about high percentages. Once again, people who listen to the discussion are being deceived into accepting these false reports, and I'm saying this, and the nonsense the senators have presented. Same time as that 10 you did. K. There have been extreme increases in costs, such as housing, health costs, and most important, because micromasks also have to eat, even though they are not often limited to food, the value tax on food was increased to a few. That's a fact. There's no need for percentage bills of the executives to come here and read styles sent by the Ministry of Social Affairs from the highest level. Minister of Harðardóttir Hardydó to all council members who read the same fistula by an increase of 17.1%. A high percentage of low numbers is an increase of nothing at all, and the fact is that microenergy pensions have only increased by 10 percent. K. by tax. The conflicting fact is that the administrative part is taking on the way in which it is in which it is taking place and is causing the greatest debate at the General Assembly not to agree that the elderly and the desperate will be restored, just as everyone else in society does. I allow myself to tell everyone else because I have not found a single profession that has been added this year and has not been paid backward. They are to attack those who are to be remembered. The government has found large banks in the elderly and the poor, such as low rains. Before the last election, it was observed in the response of the candidates that the most urgent work in the care of the elderly and the desperate must be raised in their pensions because of impaired dress and nailing, but nothing has paved them up. I feel certain that now there is someone in charge who answers me and talks about what was done in 2013. A respected president, 2013, found the most successful, especially the elderly, by taking some connection with pay, where 70 years of age and older were allowed to work without a decrease in pension and also something about capital gains. I'm going to take a closer look at what's been talking about. This 9.4% who so increased to 9.7%, which is really of no relevance in this case, is an increase of more than 11 yous. K. by tax. It's 16◯17 of you. K. increase, but 11 thousand by taxes. Hence, it is wrong to talk about it as it is done that this treasure of 6.2 billion or the number mentioned. You see, government funds get tax from this. I guess the net is about 4.2 billion bucks. There are all things in fairness that the elderly and the desperate are restored to an elevated condition like everyone else. The increase to 3% of the government groups and the Generals boast that the beginning of this year is 4 Yous. K. by tax. That's it. If I had more time, I would discuss it in this talk than I might do in my second or third speech. In this context, I find it very remarkable to have a letter in front of me as head of the Independence Party, Bjarni Benediktsson, sent it to all the older citizens of this country on April 22, 2013, where it stood for the votes of Valgart and what he was going to do. If you go over it then what was said wasn't all done. The stone was taken out of a newspaper article that the chairman of the Independence Party also wrote five minutes before elections, promising older ones and microchip to eliminate all that the wicked left rule was to have done and raised everything just so that older ones could enjoy their advanced years with dignity. What a contradiction, considering what we see in this budget bill or the financial bill for this year. I've said that the government is not going to meet the elderly and desperate in this regard. I urge all members of the board to read a letter published in the female paper not long ago, which is an open letter for the son of Bjarni Benediktsson. It's written by Elva Dögg Gunnarsdóttir and published on June 7, 2015. It discusses the matter of this woman, who actually opens her entire account and allows us to look into it. I ask: Is this not enough for the directors to reconsider their position? What does it say? The vice president of the budget committee, Guðr Þór Þórðarson, the only government in this room outside the highest court. President on this? Has a what? A senator and vice president of the legal committee read this open letter? [[Up front.]] Has he studied his president's article just before elections 2013 or the letter sent to all who were promised the Golden and Green Forest if they chose the Independence Party? And then everything's screwed right now. Wait a minute. A senator is to meet up with me in return and discuss 17.1%. I wish I could. A senator would come and read the style that was sent from the Department of Social Affairs to the General Assembly a few days ago when some sort of riot occurred there. Now come and read it all about the percentages. But ask questions about 10 of you. K. the increase from May 2013 after taxation, a provisional income, or 4 you have. K. at the beginning of this year or to discuss contributions to the Hospital for this 30% rise in which people are dressing with stolen feathers, a respected president, as they are doing. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u242	A respectable president. Hv. A senator often mentioned the Hospital and the medical system of his talk, and there is good reason to do so. The adjustment of parts' memory provides suggestions for further funding the Land Hospital. Similarly, management personnel, and especially the highest, speak of them. Ministers would very much like them to be sponsoring the system more than the other. In view of the discussion, I wondered that no one seems to be opposed to strengthening the health system, but people have a different view of what that means. I wondered if it's mostly about the amount, or how the money should be used, how it's earmarked, if it should go in e.g. The hospital or anything else in the system. To be honest, I don't know exactly why there is a disagreement about whether the health system is being strengthened or not. There's something that you would have thought was a matter of fact, but as often as it's complicated and it's big, it's not as obvious as you'd think in the first hour. That's why I'd like to ask him why. A senator, since he is a special amateur to finance our health system so that he is concerned with what he thinks is needed to do well with the health system. I also specifically ask about the hospital, although health care is in my mind, more than the Landspit. The proposals for the memory of the part contain the amount of billions. How can you tell? A senator envisions that the health system would be funded well enough to meet the demands and expectations of the Icelandic nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u243	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Hrafn Gunnarsson's Helgi asks me into the medical system and the Hospital, financing of it, and a different view of it. If I understand him properly, everyone wants to have a good hospital and health care. We all do. To date, it has been financed by the income of a government fund with taxes and so forth, and we have been happy with it for most of the time. This will be 50 billion next year. I was discussing that based on the medical records we receive from the hospital, including The managers who editors on all Fridays are missing at least 3 billion into the system today. Therefore, at the beginning of my speech, I considered it well and explained what it would be like if it were taken into consideration for other people. Then we will see that things have not been handled, as the government groups are now kissing off. It is simply wrong to consider all factors. For example, the increase I went to my talk means about 1.7% a year, and it does not mean that we have to close our eyes to finance the health system and, in particular, the national hospital, the land hospital we're going to build with great dignity and have good for all the people of the country, we're not going to build a Land hospital and a high-tech hospital all over the country, that's supposed to be here, and we need to add it and do it better than we do. We who were involved in the last terms to cut down on all fronts because of a great exchange of state funds said we were always going to return this thing as soon as we were. That's what we do now, and that's why we all put our thoughts in the memory of things into adjustments. It really is true that this is true. I can't tell you why the rest of the thing doesn't go on that walk. I don't think it really matters whether the government fund will make 11 billion left behind in the coming years or 8 or 9, unless we know that the next year, we're going to make a trust fund, and it was probably on purpose that they weren't put in there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u244	A respectable president. Now I have to admit that I don't remember exactly what the total amount was for us in the smaller part, but it didn't run far from this number, at least 2 billion, good if it didn't strike to 3 billion. I wondered because in the suggestion of my share, there are also concordances to meet the increased expenditures made, but some members of the council have expressed doubts about the success of these revenues, especially in the process of collecting more taxes by extorting tax fraud. Then I wondered, since there are 3 billion in my opinion that there are not very high numbers in the budget and in the context of the importance of the seminary, and the priorities expected by the nation, that if the income trails of my section were not going to go completely anyway. Even so, a senator believes that this $3 billion will still be ours. increase.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u245	V.E.G. President. Yes, absolutely. I explained earlier at the end of my speech with a great bell ring that in the next year's budget, more part had reported directly on future interest from the banking institutions and especially on the National Bank, since it is missing some several billion, perhaps even 101.712 billion. There's nothing new. In fact, the citizens of the Land Bank have called for more interest in money because the Lands Bank is having trouble making its own money and showing a proper interest in it. That's why it's over, the more part says it. This year, if we take it too, because the debate is also about this year and the budget is 22 billion on the budget. I predict, a respectable president, and it'll be fun to discuss in terms of a government bill, that there will be 2,335 billion left this year. So there is a table to put more into the medical system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u246	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. He handled two cases that burn by men during the discussion, and he did well, both for the benefit of the elderly and for the disability and for the status of the Land Hospital. This has been shown in the case of the highest government, the highest. Secretary of the budget and the highest. Prime Minister, that there is nothing to be done about the demands that older ones and poor people be restored, as do other members of the community, back to May 1 of this year. We agreed on that in the budget, and the suggestion was made. It is spoken as if these groups can be well accepted because they too are groups of members of the collective agreements where the pay is low. We know that. There's nothing to shout to. I hope the labor movement continues to fight for better terms. It reached a point in the last bargain contracts for the lowest paid. These groups, the elderly and the desperate, do not have the option of going to a strike to improve their terms and do not choose to be desperate. You don't have a choice to get old, you get old if you keep your health healthy. Most grow old, and then somehow it ends. I found it very interesting when it happened. From May 2013 onward, a senator showed the interest rates of these people because they are very little after taxes. K. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator says that it is possible to reach the ears of a minister in the highest court. Government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u247	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I wish I could say yes to the hearing of the senators and the Ministers, but I fear it will not be possible, especially after today in the highest degree. In fact, the speaker threatened us for discussing this matter. Hv. A senator makes aged and desperate a subject of talk. As I said at the beginning of my speech, because I think it is better for me to discuss a dollar in this relationship than a percentage, then the increase at the beginning of this year, by the government groups, was 4 of you. K. by tax. The increases in the current government from summer 2013 to today are 10 of you. K. by tax. That's all. The microenergy pennie has risen from 162 thousand to 172 thousand in the time of that government, i.e. about 10 of you. K. As I said, let's listen to it if it follows what percentages the percentages were in the social security letter to the members of the council at the time. I want to talk about crowns. This is where I have a pill from the past summer when there was a bargain and a bargain. There you will find a pay table for VR to rise immediately in 2015. Those with 230 thousand raise to 255 thousand, or about 25 yous. K. That's where the increase is going. Then we can check out 750. K. The hired man who goes up about 24 grand. It goes up by 107 thousand in the season, by the time it's 230. K. The payman goes up by 70 grand. It is these standards that we need to keep in mind when talking about the interest of older ones and the reasonable requirement for them to be restored in this year as did the rest of society. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u248	Mr. President. I'd like to direct a question to the question. A senator about something else. It is stated in the budget bill that three clinics in the capital area are permitted and that no special contribution is expected next year, but those wishing to drive such stations have to reach patients and show that they have patients. Thus, patients will be moved to and from the clinics that are active and funds for their business will be added in the same way. What's the matter? A senator on the underlying trend that it is being directed into private business rather than to strengthen the health centers that are active and that are highly financed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u249	V.E.G. President. I think we can do both. I think there's more to get to clinics that are supposed to be the first stop. There is no time in short answer to review the reference system or anything else, the 70 million, but I have tried to listen for updates on new clinics. A respectable president. Today and throughout the world, there is a private business in health care. He's real. We don't have to go to the medical centre of Snow or the Power House or anywhere, where experts have private business. The bill is then sent to the state. With regard to private health care business, such as that, I'm not against him at all. I have to say exactly as it is, I'm pretty excited that he's been examined, but I'm totally against the privatization. That is why I, a respected president, say that the public health care must be financed naturally to use the resources and equipment and other means to care for the patients who arrive there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's the cheapest and fastest way to go. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u250	A respectable president. Now I've worked hard. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller for some time and he's got a lot of faces. [[Up front.]] He's got a lot of faces, and now he's showing the plutonium face. I'm not going to do it for just a little while. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller was talking about what he said, for why. A senator knows exactly that it has been prerequisite for the benefit of these classes in the history of that government. Hv. A senator was in the last government that had to be saved, but he also knows that there were no priorities for health care. I'm here with the answer to my inquiry about the development of employees. During the last term, many of us pointed out that although health care was a long distance away, it was needed to save. The savings would be almost exclusively there. When it came to a decrease in the number of government workers, a greater proportion of those who lost their work at health care and especially at the Land Hospital were employed. Perhaps someone might say, " Was this not everywhere? ' No, a respected president, since foreign service was increasing. There was an increase in financial and economic growth under the institutions. It's all right to come here and say that it can be done better and that you have some things to think about, because it needs to be done, of course, that humans have not achieved any perfection in this. But when you start with class, like a dog. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller does, just out of a government that acted in the way the figures show she did, I'll do, a respectable president, exactly nothing about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u251	V.E.G. President. It's the same thing with me, I don't really do anything with this answer. Senator. He has nothing to do with what I did as a talker at the beginning of my speech when I asked for the presence of him. The vice president of the budget board, that he was here in my speech, and that he might react to it, but he is gone. A senator of the four difficult years, five of whom had to resign and put their sails together in health - care and elsewhere, was always spoken of the need to return. Hv. A senator made it likely that in some response he received, the number of Kingdom workers would have been largely in medical care and if I heard the right of the Land Hospital. Yeah, I think I heard those numbers, and I think I'm gonna be right, maybe there are 5,500 employees at the Land Hospital? Could it have decreased by 200 or 250 or 300? I don't remember that number. But what I find truly remarkable now is the fact that the government's economic group, as a dog, is the case. A senator in charge has passed over the government system to find out about 2016's budget to create a new agency, a government master, that is opening up a new embassies in France, which was shut down in the last government, and there is a new tool created in the tourism service instead of a travel agency and all that is available there. In other words, I don't want to use the word, as young independents do, but only state business and government. He is clearly growing in this regard. And when I talk about priorities, I made especially a topic of conversation at the outset of my speech as far as Land Hospital and Health Services are concerned. I also talked about the issues of the elderly and the desperate and made it more likely that in the time of that government, the condition of which it was commonhv. þm. Gullard Thor Guðlaugur has been short since the summer of 2013, rising microenergy pensions by 10 o'clock. K. by tax. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u252	A respectable president. More than half of the state employees who lost their jobs during the last term were from the health sector. As I mentioned, however, the number of surveillance agencies and foreign services grew. You're absolutely right, though. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller that it's totally ridiculous to be opening this office in Strasbourg, completely ridiculous.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u253	Then why are you suggesting this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u254	In case of a moment. A senator wants to scold me for something, he'll just scold me for it, and I'll take it and agree with it. Senator. For the Master, it is the unity of certain institutions, it is not a new institution, it is a name change, and there is an institution that is present and that is not an increase in jobs or volumes. [[Up front.]] - No, no, it's not taking any more money. It's mainly a change of name and a good name. On the other hand, he knows why. A senator claims that the pension is 27 billion higher this year, compared with the year when that government began. It cannot be minimized, a respectable president. I haven't heard anyone do it, except why. ... anti-enemies. Twenty-seven billion is a lot. [[The president calls.]] The contributions to health have been raised by 23 billion. [[The president calls.]] All together, it's 50 billion. [[The president calls.]] You can do better than that, but don't belittle this, respectable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u255	V.E.G. President. I'm glad, though, that it came to a good start. A senator objects to his suggestion to open a new embassy in France. He's against it. Here it is. It's very important. But he still supports it, yet he makes a change. It's very important. As for the other institutions, I'm not going to discuss them in this minute. Eventually, however, the problem arose. A senator in the counting gym, which I made up of the first talk material, claims that an increase in the Land Hospital is 30% from 2013. That's wrong, and I went for a team through the way it's stated wrong. The exact same thing happened now, that the benefits of social security had increased by 27 billion during this terms of interest. A respectable president. There's a considerable number of Icelanders who take the pension of older citizens and disability and other things, but these figures, this drama that happened by the wind. A senator is used to mislead the discussion because humans are really oblivious to this series of issues. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Stop taking proben.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u256	Mr. President. It's interesting to talk about. I've been over a few things on the budget bill and I'm going to continue with that. The nature of the matter, according to the tax Catholic, is my opinion. I'm worried about the people who bought the debt supply of candidates. I'm worried about where it really is now, because such insurmountable tax reductions brought up and said that if it's a dresser, it's something the Navy doesn't support and has warned. Of course, instead of continuing to continue to reduce taxes, a community's infrastructure should be strengthened more and more so than it is done. This isn't politics that produces results. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] It's been tested, it doesn't have to be done again. [[Take it up:]] I believe that part of the explanation that our young people are going because they are not making ends meet. - Guys, get out there, you respectable young men, and talk it over there if you can't keep quiet in the councilroom. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]] - Young people don't have a chance to invest in this place because there's not been any permanent primary particles in housing, even though the season is late. It doesn't seem to work on renting. As we know, rent markets are not good. There hasn't been any resources there either. Young people need to know more about what causes them to move away. It would also be interesting to examine the formulation of those who move to the country, i.e. Education, employment, and so forth. I was about to enter the infrastructure. We made common suggestions where there is much in themselves. There areinvents, parish plans, road plans, and things that we've done. Just looking close to me, I'm worried about certain aspects of my own economic situation in view of the fact that no policy of transportation has ever been established and what has been presented here has not been approved. The budgets that are changing the majority of the items are rather random than having any priorities in the Road program. Some of them were not on a schedule at all. Rather, they seemed to have been about who has access to each person or in what individual's economic situation is at home or something like that. It doesn't seem like that when you look at these suggestions, unfortunately. For example, in my district, highway 1 isn't fully dejected and malbed. I'm talking about the Berufjörður End, the road to the highest. In the fall of the United States, the Minister of the Interior Minister said that a billion people would be put in, i.e. that if they were to start this project, they would be very important; nothing would be in the way of extending the asphalt, and the project would end in 2017. We're talking traffic security. There's a school bus and more and there's been an accident. In a mild word, this is a very bad chapter. It's Route 1. The same is true of Langanes, as is true of other locations and, of course, in many parts of the country where most of the legal committees have not been given the sound of a number of instruments, normal, these are major projects. They are to go through transportation and transportation programmes. Money should not be given as this is done, in my opinion. I want this to go through the legal process and to follow the priorities set by the Road Council. I'm worried that this is how it's done. A boarding room has requested funds to ensure safety of sailors. It's not put in there. There are many of these things that can be said to be out of order. There's also one thing I'm interested in, and I'm turning to the infrastructure, that's the rest of it. It was reimbursed when difficult provisions were taken, but it is especially difficult, as in a Struggling carpet where the local community is faced with reforms on their reporting system in the Smokeyard area and around the area. Let us see if there is nowhere to sea, so this is not a simple matter. It's very expensive for such a small society, and it really isn't. The report has been prepared and made for basic design and cost assessment. Protection of Lake Mey and Salmon years is absolutely necessary for the three - step cleansing work to be performed there in order to meet the regulations of the regulations. The communities that are faced with this kind of thing need help. They're too small to do this on their own. It's one of our tourists we're supposed to do well. I can take a few examples from my district. As I specifically mentioned regarding their roads, so, of course, much more is involved. The bottom line is that there are no plans. Investment, I'm worried about her. She's okay now, but then she falls down. If you look at the government budget, you will have no regard for anything other than some big business. There is really nothing recommended about other commercial investments, e.g. new or otherwise, software industry, technology, or the wand as we know it and call it, the knowledge industry. It's not expected in this financial bill. Of course, we're concerned about looking at a decomposing industry. I'm not talking about in the light of what was being agreed on in the climate at the Paris Conference. This does not belong in modern society, i.e. only to look at such structure. I'll take a few things and a few things to do. In the suggestion of my share, there is also talk of growth improvements and child support, etc. As I started with them, there are some 80 billion debts involved, but growth improvements are turning down, and it is dangerous to evenly agree that this is because the balance of debt has only improved. Real estate has gone up, too. It adds to the position of property, but it does not correct people's financial status. It's important to keep that in mind. The loans are no easier to pay, but the benefits are down. This, of course, just means that the home is paying more money on the loan than it used to be. So we need to ask ourselves: " What was the objective of these growth reforms? An increase in property prices should not lead to a decrease in growth rate in my opinion. I think it's wrong for the government groups and their spokesmen to promote this in a way that they alone change everything for people. Then we need to raise the criteria, it's not okay for them to be cut so early, because our youngest people who are trying to get a roof over their heads and work a lot to be effective at these times when it is clear that few can take unconvinced loans. Sadly, our environment still exists that people pay too much of their pay for housing interest. Then, of course, the insurance policy that has not been taken away or suggested in spite of big promises. I'm not necessarily satisfied because it's going to be taken away, I haven't realized if it's the real and right way, but certainly we need something to do and something to turn into our money policy, especially with regard to the interest of people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u257	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a discussion of growth improvements and child support. I think those who suggest this reduction don't see the end of what it means and what course we've entered. As soon as a person begins to decide not to raise the criteria, these child - rearing improvements and growth improvements are slowly removed as support for the children. At the same time, there is evidence that they came in with a penance correction, but it is worth pointing out that those who were corrected in this second round - prior traffic was carried on during the last term - did not necessarily have the greatest debt. The young people had got a lot of correction during the last term that they were all drawn away now, that group remained behind in the second round, the young people with the greatest debt. It's the people we've decided to receive support through the growth reform and child - saving system, and it's not out of the open air, but because we know that this is the largest weight paid by their loans at the same time that they have children who will have high school. I've taken the example that it costs 60 yards. K. during a month, twins are being taken to a nursery school in Kopavogi. At the top of that, we know that the cost comes from running a large home for a young family. Although the income may be reasonably high on the tax returns, much of it is available to many before the family can buy what it takes to get in and out of it. Thank you. A senator for this. I don't think that making the decision to ignore them is to minimize all the power of this vital support to this group of people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u258	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator resists. You see, that is what we did when the debt came up. When I was in the campaign, we declared that we wanted to discuss what groups were in place, i.e. after the last terms in a new season. We wanted to take a closer look, but we did not want to take care of everything and all so that those who really need correction would be like that. A senator says, primarily these young children. Two and a half years later, despite 80 billion demolitions, we face the fact that a large number of these young people, young people with children, are not doing well enough. It is not acceptable, but it is impossible to omit in this rather than in everything else. I'm sorry when the executives say that interest benefits also decline because the debt has gone so well, that it has saved it. It's entirely forgotten to take an increase in real estate assessment. Of course, this does not apply everywhere, so that it is said. We must not forget that it is also expensive to have children in the scattered areas; it costs nothing less, but there are a lot less incomes in many places and opportunities to work fewer, so I am very much after being taken into the rich money back instead of sharing them with those groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u259	A respectable president. You see, that's all that's really changed is that there's been an enormous rise in real estate values, which means that these same people have become in a considerably better position on paper, but they haven't changed. The labor of a heavy children's home is always as high as the cost of shopping for such a family always goes up. In particular, I would like to request candidates for this government team to examine seriously what it can do to weaken the growth reform system by not allowing the criteria to follow the changes that take place on real estate evaluations and other things. This is going to meet a large group in a very bad way, and it's going to happen in the next few years. This has long been the dream of independence. They've never tolerated the growth reform system. Yet, we have been able to rely on the progressives of keeping that watch. [[The president calls.]] I hope they are standing in their feet now and not being forced into the path of weakening it so that it does not provide the support it has to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u260	Mr. President. I agree with that. That is to say that these young people are in fact paying a higher percentage of their pay for their own business, whether it's the cost of housing or the form of a higher tax of food, let's not forget it. The sugar tax was removed, and the food tax was raised. I sometimes ask myself, when you look at this scene, especially to the candidates who, don't forget it, warned against the budget bill, and said that certain counter measures need to be taken. [[Up front.]] I ask myself, " Are the candidates convinced that the counter measures have paid off? ' I'm not sure they've all paid off. I think that the suggestions we have here for children's families, in this respect as well as for raising the birthworm to 500 of you. K., would you like to meet the fact that young men will stay at home and take a birthworm, that is, to strengthen young children's families? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u261	V.E.G. President. I think it's the first time in my history since 1999 that I haven't made transportation a topic to talk about the budget. I appreciate it. A senator for taking them up and giving me an opportunity to discuss the matter with her here in answer. In short, the government has given up on a general transport program. She made our last move on a transport plan for nothing. As an example, and as evidence of this, there are in the northern regions we both know, 200 million estimates next year for transport. Of these, there are 50 million in preparation for activities outside of standard practice, research and so forth; 100 million in security operations in Akureyri and 50 million in glacier and Shiverpool; that will be a huge deal for the 50 million. The total number is 200 million next year. If we cross to the east, there's a little more. It has a 668 million estimates next year. I think there's about 300 million on the Hornfjords so far under the southern zone. This is a confirmation of what I'm saying, that the transport program is about little or nothing. With 235 million more now, we're adding a little bit. The majority say, by permission of the President: With unchanged funds, decades begin to improve roads and provide adequate transportation. There's talk of dirt road to country and stuff like that. I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament in what she did in the district of the northeast week - we went there about a few members, others needed - but there are the urgent projects there. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on account of her being on a budgetary committee: What exactly is being put in there apart from a transport program? [[The president calls.]] We know that when an environmental and transport committee was planning to expand the last time, it just stopped from the minister, this is not going to be done and a travel plan came up. [[The president calls.]] But what is being done now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u262	Mr. President. That's right, the low money that goes in there is a worry. I don't know the most about transportation plans. A senator, but I do know that this is a project that isn't in there. For example, I don't remember it being a priority - and I'm not going to question the need to do this, just to be said. This is, for example, a bridge across the U.S.R., adjustments to roads across the Pacific River and Helluvad, and fixes on the Tinstole Road - I'm not sure that this was the first step in focus, not according to what I remember. This is also true of the docks, of what is set up in the Redemption Fund. It is also being taken out, and a financial committee is making a suggestion that the road is doing something. I don't mean to say that the road model was not contacted, I'm not gonna let people do it, but at least it's not by Vega's wish list. First, this did not happen, as we know, through the traditional process. That's what's most serious about this. As I said before, we have the highways without bound wearout, they're almost non-stop because of a bad situation. They're driving with schoolchildren on this road, which is completely unacceptable. Of course you should. Between Backfjords and Thorfarves, there is also a very difficult road. There's talk of making a suggestion to try a less expensive project - even though I'm worried about people planning less expensive projects, it may well be possible to do it where traffic is low, I don't say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u263	V.E.G. President. In my second answer, I'd like to ask you what. A senator into what we in the smaller parts have put our focus on, on health matters and especially on Land Hospital and, of course, much in the country, the elderly and the desperate. We've had a lot of discussion about this, and we're the biggest conflict in both the funds and the next year's budget on these two lawsuits. That is why I too have noticed why. A senator has discussed it as we have all done, this is our heart business and much of our business, and I hope that more of the legal committee will not listen to the Supreme Court. Instead, the prime minister begins to clean up and change the situation. I want to ask you why. Finally, a senator: Does she not agree that we should simply not stop this discussion about the next year's budget and the money we have left at 3rd? Until we see improvements and refinements with increased money in health matters and in particular national hospitals and Land Hospitals, and in the elderly and in poverty? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u264	Mr. President. I think I'll accept a challenge. A senator of Aissar, Össur of Skarphéðinsson, who has talked a lot about the fact that there was no adult senator except to see the sunrise here, though it may be a little late this time of year. But I'm very excited about this, and I'm really worried about it. I have quoted only the words of a prime minister in which he says, by permission of a president: There are a large number of people who have suffered from abnormal impairment, e.g. Old citizens and poor people, they need to get their money done. Iceland has enough resources, production capacity, and knowledge to make everyone well-being. For that, all it takes is a sense of reason to rule the country. I'm afraid I think the highest. The prime minister is not making sense to the government, it was here at lunch today when we were voting for a meeting period. It is very important that the Landspians receive this money, even if it is only their pay force. It is naturally unacceptable to plan for the hospital that the state made a deal with, collective agreements, not to add. [[The president calls.]] What kind of a song of nonsense is this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u265	A respectable president. Hv. A senator, like the one standing here and many others, is concerned about social security, pension, disability, and so forth. The smaller section is conducted by a joint change proposal, and we agree that now is the time to use feedback, just as we senators themselves have been allowed to enjoy, following the decision of a dresser's body on our terms. But one of the things I've always had a lot to do with all my social security discussions and often the ignominiously low money as pensioners and micro-energy reformers is how complicated it is to find out what is right in the person's eyes. I mean, it's one of the biggest problems that actually put us away from improving the system by raising funding, although I'm certainly in favor of it as well and of course, these suggestions and the rest of the section. This is one of the things I think it's important for us to tackle and work on that relief workers and pensioners, who I don't want to be the same, have any chance to find out if they get the right payment, they have the opportunity to find out what options are in the situation, because it doesn't seem clear. The same individuals often complain that government insurance agencies do not show them enough understanding, guidance, or anything. Whether or not there is a question of attitude, it remains after people do not know their rights. They often don't understand why they get as little pay as they can really be. In this regard, I mention that I have repeatedly tried to get to the bottom of some particular aspects of the social security system, and it's always very complicated, even targeted factors, let alone the whole system. Is this not something we also need to look at when we are going to improve the benefit of users of the social security system?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u266	Mr. President. Yes, I agree with that, and I have the hope that the so - called St Peter Berlandal Committee will begin to produce some suggestions that we can discuss, which would be in the process of simplifying the system. I think everybody agrees that it's too complicated. Of course, if almost no one understands it but perhaps one or two, that is very painful. It is shocking that people, pension workers, should enter that year with their tax report that they are being asked for reimbursement because they are miscalculated or otherwise or because they receive some supplementation, or they are causing a retrospective decline because they don't give up the legitimate pension money in the beginning or something like that. All of this is supposed to be more electronic now. But it seems to happen year after year. The system is clearly too complicated, and we need to fix it. It's not okay for you not to understand. I thought it was the highest. Today the minister of finance suggests that people have disability benefits because they do not feel inclined to work, that is, to say. But it's not as if it's easy to get into disability pensions. It's a whole process. People are often up to two years of hard work, going through extreme trials until they are decided on their affairs. Some get a rehabilitation pension, something like that, while they're waiting, but others also get involved in the lack of income for some time. So there are a lot of things we need to fix. I hope this bill does some of what it does. But the attitude must also change toward these people. Not to be judged by an entire group of people for a few sheep, as is the case with the same as with all of us, for it is not. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u267	A respectable president. I sure hope like hell. A member of a committee is beginning to submit results in advance that the suggestions are well understood that pushing too much after them will not result in a loss of quality. As for this system, I understand that the interaction between the state and the local community of this group can cause a lot of conflict. There's something I believe to be on guard. I also have to agree with what. A senator and I were already the greatest. A financial minister here spoke of disability as being really unemploymental, as if it were something you needed only for a certain time and then went back to work, which, of course, is not often the case. Arrows are very often permanent, and indeed, they are often long - term. It is not normal for us to automatically decide that people who are either born disabled or disabled during life should remain poor for the rest of their lives. Also, I understand that it is simply not as right as the highest. A minister said there were people who worked all day, but they still get less money than disability. Could that be so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u268	Mr. President. I agree with what. A senator also felt that in support of government officials, they have reasoned in their locality that the improvement is now sufficiently high and that all procolols are being adhered to. But this does not mean mixing the community service into it because these are their own laws, and they vary according to rural society in how these cases are handled. Unfortunately, the workforce is not particularly friendly to those who have the ability to work, not always clean. We have to do a lot more by offering them jobs, some part-time job at some point, because I believe that most of those people want to be with people and have a job life, if they can, instead of, like, what they do. A senator said, to be judged in poverty because it is in disability. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u269	A respectable president. As far as I'm concerned, the head of the Independence Party has had an amazingly peculiar discussion over the past 24 hours. During a conversation with the chairman of the United States, aged Páll Árnason, during a question period, according to the highest degree. Secretary of finance directly that we fellow members need to get it into our heads that motivation is important. In what context does he say this? He says that when he gets involved, depending on whether he thinks it's normal for people who have to rely on government pensions to get the same amount as those who have to survive the minimum. The financial minister's reaction to these questions is that it's as if we partners are slow and don't understand the need to be some kind of catalyst in the system. Then I ask, "Aggress for who? " For those who have done their day - to - day work and are now being paid by society in their later years? How's the best move? Secretary of finance to let these people have and encourage what? For those who are chronically ill or who live in disability and cannot provide the help of others but who accept their bread from the public, what motivation can the minister of finance magic? What motivates them to do what? How do you encourage a person who may have chronic illnesses, such as MS? What motivates them to enter the system so that these people can -- what, start working? A respectable president. There I felt that the secretary of finance was showing us that he has no idea what this group is all about and what circumstances these people live in. In this chair he spoke this morning like that all those who receive a disability pension today are young men who have stuck outside the labour market and are therefore in the disability pension. I can say that if it's the highest. The secretary of finance would see that the group is very small in the large group of microorganists in Iceland. We're not here in the country with more disability than we walk and happen elsewhere. It's a cognition to run a community, it's people who live under all kinds of circumstances, and then it's our job to provide them with life, to make sure that they can be bearable. I think this attitude is quite scary, so I don't say any more, and I hope the Minister goes to see how these groups are composites and whatever people he says we co-founders need to get into our heads that he needs some incentive to get himself out of this pension. The people we're fighting for and have come to the end to speak a language in this chamber are the people who've been working their lives in the workplace and are now in their old age, not on a lot of pension, and who are living on the salary of a common fund. Is that not fair to us? Of course it's fair, they're people who have already turned their backs on society and good. Then there are the other group, people who cannot work in a general labour market because of uncontrolled causes, chronic illnesses, or disability. For them, people want the highest. Secretary of the budget has an incentive for the system. This shows so much how different it is to equal people as the government groups have on the welfare system. We view it as our duty to provide for those who cannot earn because of chronic illnesses or disability so that they can live with dignity in the community. Is it too much to expect them to keep at least the minimum wage in the country? We don't think that's the least we can do. What kind of money are we talking about? What are these groups really talking about? We're talking about poorer or older citizens who live together with no income from pension funds or employment income having 170 of yours. K. It's net in a month. Those who live alone receive 192 of you. K. per month. There's not a man in the world who can picture this. We all know who's in here. Behind these numbers there are not very few people who have accidentally entered this position. These are large groups of Icelanders, thousands of people. Those who get some pension money never make it to the high income that it goes far to 300 thousand. Large groups may get 22,2240 grand net to survive a month. They are people who have given up their life's work in this country and who will be able to keep it good in their later years. That's what we're supposed to do, and that's why we're standing here. It may well be that when it comes to our decision - making people, they are afraid to listen to us, that we are boring, and that we are before them, but we think it's a big deal. It's been flung in us that we shouldn't say much because we would have affected these groups so much when we were here with our welfare issues, but we always protect and raise the lowest groups. The damages given to proben were temporary at the time of the worst age then occurred on the 300-star groups. K. Out of a pension fund or more. No one under that goal was affected. Then there were those with employment income. A respectable president. The basic pension, however, rose and when it comes to saying that there are no precedents for retrospective payment, i.e. That rising in the middle of the year is simply wrong. In 2011, the country's pay grew, and then a government made it possible for a pensioner to give an increase in mid - 2011. In 2011, the lowest pensions increased by less than 20 measures. K. People cannot hide themselves from such false claims. I'd like to ask the member of this body that belongs to the board if we put aside any discussion about percentages or who did most or least, record or no record, etc., and just ask ourselves the conscience question: Are we really here to think that 192 you are? K. Is it enough for any human to pay for shelters, food, and living here on land with dignity? If we answer the question no, which we truly do, would it not be expected that, instead of standing in this basket here, with one another's fist to sit down and try to make some plan to raise these groups so that they can actually live with dignity? We can, we have offered it to this government, and we have not been heard. We got the splashes from the head of the forward party here today. How did he respond to our wishes? He answered by saying that there was nothing for the opposition to government, as if our struggle had something to do with us. It's not about us, it's about the people I was talking about here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u270	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Her speech to Katrín Júlíusdóttir, who, of course, was about what we can call the biggest case of this financial debate, i.e. The ideal pensioner. I have to say, I feel that there have been a lot of ideas here in the discussion on the position to form that it is not normal that these groups are the same as the lowest wage because they are not motivated. Hv. A senator specifically reasoned on this. I just want to swaddle it. Today, they do not choose their lot; they do not choose disability; they certainly choose not to grow old. Even if you want to grow old, you don't choose that destiny. An answer to a question from the question has been presented. A deputy member of the United States, Indriðadóttir Indiadóttir, claims that 70% of the senior citizens are under 300 of you. K. ... ingraduated. I'd like to pray. A senator tearing it over a little bit more how she wants to answer it with the motivation, i.e. whether there is any reason to enhance the efficacy of these groups. A problem is with the methodology that I think, and I'd like to ask why. A senator sees if she agrees with me. For example, we have seen this in British governments today that they have put much emphasis on promoting reforms from fraud, which are considered by the local government to remind me of about 0.7% of pay paid, about a hundred times less fraud than, for example, tax fraud. The whales, however, have influenced us to see a good deal of premature deaths in Britain, where people work so hard to get some kind of activity or work or something that they simply prefer to commit suicide. I remember a story that appeared in a previous year about a man who just had a heart attack after being sentenced to a full - blown job. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Who do the senator feel the danger of such an impulse?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u271	A respectable president. This morning's discussion, already the highest. The minister of finance began to talk about the motivations of disability and old age, he decided to mention and tell us in the Union that we should have listened to our former city representative, the Björk Vilhelmsdóttir. Björk Vilhelmsdóttir never spoke of the need for some special motive for those in the community service, which is sometimes the same group but often not. I don't think those people who have energy are just kidding. I don't quite understand this debate about motivation. If we look at a group of microchips, I'm reminded that the numbers are they may be 16 Yous. a man, something like that, and only a fraction of it is young people. Connecting this to and giving the impression that these are more and less young men who have fallen out of the job market and other factors just don't give the right impression of the situation. When it comes to motivation, I just don't understand it, and I want to ask the secretary of finance how he will encourage someone who is long - suffering, such as MS or some other disease or serious disability, to get into the work market. How will he do so? What are some factors that we can have in the system that will not have a negative impact on the individual? We all know how this workforce works. A lot of day's work is expected, and not everyone can, physically, like a whale. A senator points out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u272	Madam President. I think that in the discussion, different groups are being confused, like what? A senator rightly comes to, i.e. those who have temporary difficulties and need help, support to get back on track, and those who are sentenced to disability or old age, as I have come to know and are in conditions that are harder to get out of. Of course, the right motivation can help with those who have disability, but it really matters how they think. That is why I also feel that it is odd to see how high school has become a part of the same budget that we are discussing, which has a lot to do. There, for example, I would have liked to take a closer look at their role in welcoming older ones, as they have been, in strengthening them more than anything else to give their students the needed support, psychological support. You see, I think when we're talking about motivation, we in many cultures lack support for people who are in need. For example, psychological causes are the main cause of the withdrawal from high school if it is determined that OECD has been working with the Ministry of Education. We should be working to get students into high school to support them in their education. I think such a procedure on its own could be a very positive impulse for people to continue studying or going to a workforce. The idea of returning support to sick people in some way, making it more difficult for them to survive, however, to think that it is a frightening ideologies. I think there's a difference between different groups, but also how we use the motivation. I thought it'd be interesting to hear a little bit of what it was. A senator of that ideologies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u273	A respectable president. As we have both mentioned, these are different groups, i.e. those with long-term problems and no catalyses do anything for them. On the other hand, those who have temporary problems and who need support are primarily involved. There we were during our last term, with a number of education-related resources, of course. A senator came in, and was directly intended to support those who temporarily lost their way or who suffered temporary illness. We Programs have pissed off the current government, i.e. Probably because they were founded by an advanced government, it's impossible. So it is a little strange to hear someone talking about motivation on one side and then be cutting off the tables to support people with the other hand. What I hear, however, is that; the motivation he provides is to starve men and people out of the system, i.e. having the salary of those groups low enough, they try to starve people out somehow. I think it's a rather unpleasant course if I'm going to say exactly what it is. Like I said and what? A senator named these are not people who choose their lot. We'll all be old one day, and I'm just hoping that the most of us will be, and that's a group we have to be very supportive of. The same is true of those who suffer from chronic disease and disability, for a long - suffering individual being starving out of the system is not an incentive. That's just not good for him. I think everybody knows this, and I hope they see only in this and in their own way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u274	A respectable president. Hv. A senator here spoke extensively about the motivation, which is often discussed in this context, although many disability reformers have no opportunity to go to the workforce. Although it is important for me to remember that many poor people, I don't know how large a group, but I would think that it applies to most people, could do something, and would like to do little at once, or to do a job that is not easy to get a job. There may be so many kinds of disability that you cannot predict in advance what you can do. I don't think our system often takes it into account. I just agree with what. A senator and others who are going to have some impulse, but I think they overlook the fact that many poor people have no work and will become desperate for the rest of their lives. It's not like these are unemployment benefits that one day you will survive, that disability is something they have to live with, and never go away. Therefore, it is important that the system is well-balanced by the criteria as long as possible. A senator mentioned earlier. On the other hand, many times in my conversations with the poor heard complaints that even if they can do some work, perhaps a very special job for a limited period of time, they cannot do so without experiencing these losses. So I wondered: Since we are talking about motivation to work, it would not be the best start that we would simply drop our income, especially when it comes to pension, as the highest possible. Secretary of finance promised to vote? Should that cost so much money? And also about disability benefits, if people can do anything at all. They don't seem to lose any of their jobs and get extra income. That's the best motivation, isn't it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u275	A respectable president. Now we're talking about motivation, much rather than starving people out of the system, no matter what the situation is. I think it's the factor we need to consider because it is often the way it is with those with disability - it's a broad group of people - that some people can do something special, and although they may not be able to have a regular job every day and some regular routine, such as an Icelandic labour market may call them a lot of work, many may take on special assignments. We're supposed to place them in such a way that they're not punished for them, i.e. That it should be motivated, as it were. A senator mentions, and he examines the loss of employment income. We may want to raise our authority to work there without impairment. I'm sure I do, and I'm sure it's for the older ones. There is room to carry out certain jobs or to obtain income from abroad to a certain extent. We should rather examine it for real to raise those limits and cross them carefully because it's an incentive, but it's not an incentive to keep everyone as low as possible, i.e. to give people as little wages as possible and to make some motivation that cross the entire line. It punishes those who can't earn a living in any way. Rather, it would be an incentive for a person to obtain a decent or just amount of money that could be survived, and then there would be room for those who can do some work, as it were. A senator mentioned.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u276	A respectable president. I don't get tired of mentioning the highest. The secretary of finance wanted to economize the income of a pension, end up with a rather obvious justice issue there. I find the interesting debate on motivation and punishment, because the motivation, as I understand the supreme. Government, and especially the highest. Secretary of finance, it is that if someone doesn't do something, they will be punished in some way while a real impulse is a carrot, not a baseball bat, so we borrow words from another fine discussion. I also find it important to bear in mind that those who are desperate and old - age pensioners, even those who can do some work, are always in a worse position than others about, for example, job security and opportunity. I know of people who are extremely busy but who can take on extraordinary projects with elegant results, which depend on their being the right kind of work. If you depend on something, you have a limited choice when it comes to work. People who are in disability are in that position for some reason, and even if they find themselves employed for some particular job and can get paid, I think it's perfectly normal and fair that they get disability benefits on top of that remuneration because they're more likely to lose their jobs, have less work, and less have to go wrong. I don't see this as a question of raising boundaries, but the fact that if you're on disability, you're in a state of disability, and it involves a measure of quality of life for which I'm sure that people will be compensated, but I'm sure that people will receive a full pay at whatever work they can do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u277	A respectable president. That's where we met. A senator on the head because the motivation does not involve whether people get 150 pulses. K. or 220 you have. K. Rather, it is a matter of whether they have the ability to take on unique assignments. It's an overwhelming variety of people. Some may be able to do very special jobs or a particular type of work, and they can stay in it for a long time. Others, for example, have very fluctuated powers, such as gills that depend on weather, and have difficulty working in the winter than they can do in the summer, etc. These are so diverse groups, but the workforce is not quite normal with these people. Hence, it is quite normal for the motivation to get additional income by participating in activities each year according to their performance and health. On that side, the catalyst is to lie. Let us not forget that the ability to enjoy such people brings income and prosperity to society. We will never lose on it, as it sounds to me in the administrative part of the government, even if people get to add to their fluffy commercial income because their community gains it and the government's tax comes back, let's not forget it. I find in all this conversation boring how men paint it up as some kind of reformer talk, as if this group were some kind of a burden on our community. [[The president calls.]] On the contrary, those who receive the salary of old age or the price of disability are not a burden on our society. [[The president calls.]] We should show that it is not a burden at all but an important part of the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u278	A respectable president. I would like to point out that this bell ring that sometimes becomes very strong here has a very bad effect on the quality of the broadcast at the General Assembly. I suggest that there will be another solution that will not be so bad in listening. Sometimes I sit in my home and listen to a conversation I missed in the hall, and I just don't feel tired because over time it's gonna be annoying. I understand that a respectable president needs to keep discipline in the discussion, and I respect it, but we must be able to find a way that doesn't affect the sound quality of the broadcast. If you can't change your system or your rules in some way, I suggest that there be some technical solution that will filter this sound so that it won't land in the web. There is no way to listen to talks at the council, especially during long discussions, when the bell is repeatedly beaten.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u279	A respectable president. That's a good tip for a dog. Senator. I recall as the president of the Council of the Northland that when we were present at a meeting of nearly 100 members of the United States, it was the decision of the Northern Council to remove one part from the Assembly Hall, which was exactly this committee bell. They thought that the president would simply say a time when the members of the Parliament had finished their speaking class but would not panic during the discussion by striking a bell. I know a respectable president knows all about classrooms. Of course, some people are keeping discipline here, as in any classroom, and it is not good luck to direct teachers to keep raising their voices or to overpowering what they want to hear. On the contrary, a more effective way to lower your voice may be. The bell, I think, is a bit of a mess here in the hall but for the benefit of it, and we should get rid of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u280	A respectable president. I'm sorry I'm late, but I'm going to finish a sentence that sometimes happens, and then you pass. I agree that it really didn't help to finish what was fastest to get that hard bell sound in the ear, but there are a number of presidents here who have taken an excellent step by making it sound a bit beautiful, so that a speaker can feel it without directly beating it in the ear of the person. There is something that people should listen to and observe how the others do it and try to get some solidarity in it. And it's true that especially when we watch it at home this can be difficult, it's not just about us here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u281	Madam President. I have to say, President is pity. What's at the top? President to do so when members of Congress go too far ahead? I've previously noted in the discussions about the President's conference board that I believe the President needs one weapon in his own hands, which is strongly accused of being used in foreign councils, by referring men from the Assembly Hall. The last thing I'm suggesting is that my fine companion should have dismissed the Hall of Congress, but I'd like to use this opportunity to promote this view. This should be one of the things the president has in his hands. Besides, I can't help remembering one of the greatest speakers here, who has spoken in my time, the senator of the Agency of the West, Þórðarson Þ., who said that after two decades of Congress, he would be almost deaf with this bell noise, so I'd also feel sorry for those who sit on the screen and get in at home. [[The president calls.]] As always, I am upbuilding, and I have a suggestion to redeem myself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u282	A respectable president. I'd like to allow me to protest against my party brother, Össur Skarphéðinsson's Accelerator. I don't think it's clever that the President has the authority to expel a man from a council hall. In this case, there would probably be fewer at times, some less often than others. I agree, however, that the President must be careful about how he or she beats this clock. It's very serious when I say that when people watch a meeting at their home and they laugh at the clock, it really hurts. It's really bad, and I think it's worse for us who have come off the shortest track than for the others, so I'm going to ask a president to keep this in mind in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u283	A respectable president. I just wanted to think that it's not for sympathy with my fellow members that I complain about this but primarily for those who watch this on the Internet. If it really bothers you at the back of your head. The members of the council here, I think they'd be a little more inhibited than that. This is going to get rough when the public watches or if the members of the council are watching their home on the computer. That's the problem. Internet shipments started well later than the bell has been in use, since there is a much more primitive technique. I think it is worth reevaluating how this discipline is being carried out here, but I also indicate that there are technical solutions to this. You can filter out this sound and I'd like it to be done because it is, in my opinion, unacceptable that audiences watching the council have a headache because there's so much noise here. The members of Congress are now well off on their own.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u284	The president makes it clear that he is fully prepared to negotiate with members of Congress to gently strike the bell against it. Senators are worthy of a speech lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u285	A respectable president. I missed this incident earlier, and I don't know how worried those watching the screen at home are about this clock. But I can imagine how they feel about this discussion that has taken place here for the last few minutes. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I encourage the chairman of the council to continue the discussion of the budget, that we will continue the fine discussion that has been here. It has been very interesting tonight, so we can keep it up late into the night. I think it's minimal. [[To the point of...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u286	It's against the fact that the bell is struck here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u287	V.E.G. President. You can't afford to give up this kind of opportunity when the executives come here to discuss President's conference board and have one place left just like that. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson did here now. This is the only chance to have a conversation and ask questions. Hv. A senator talks as if we have enough time to discuss it, and that's exactly right, so I'm going to ask him why. A member of Parliament: Is he proud of his government, of what is being spent here by snatching a fist to the elderly and poor, which makes pay for them rise by 10. K.? Let's talk in crowns, not in percent. Remuneration has increased by 10 percent. K. in the reign of this government. That's what I'm talking about. A senator proud of this? Was a what? A senator asking for the word for President's conference board? Is that one question enough? I hear he admits it, and that's why I'm going to ask again, "Is he proud of the 10 yous?" K. increase to elderly and disability, from 162 you. K. of 172 you. K. as I went through my speech earlier? [[The president calls.]] [[The point is, it's...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u288	A respectable president. I'm proud that the power of the elderly and the poor will be the greatest stories of all, at least In modern times, next year. We raise improvements to these groups by 9.7% next year, they rose by 3% last year, and beyond that, I have mentioned it in this chair and suggested, here three days ago, that we are heading for the lowest compensation for these groups not to be less than 300 of you. K. There is a goal that I believe we should reach and should be able to achieve in a relatively short time. It's the dresser that counts for these groups, no one else. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u289	The president points out that we have a problem here. Congress is published in a material discussion, and it is directed to them that this is the way they want to discuss the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u290	V.E.G. President. I'm kind of coming to see the top. The president will consider how we can carry out whatever goals we may have. A senator is talking about, i.e. to rapidly and carefully increase pay to the elderly and to the disability in accordance with the lowest salary of up to 300 you. K. in the middle of 2018. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. It's very important...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u291	Hv. Senator, this is a material case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u292	I'm talking about the President's conference board, I'm discussing how we can plant it here this evening and the rest of the discussion... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u293	Hv. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, you are in a material discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u294	No, I'm talking about how we can get it to rest. A senator will arrive at a speaker's will and discuss this with us so that we can do so in a way that can be said in a talk, and we can come back later. I originally said it was a welcome opportunity, at last at once. A senator comes in for a speech chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u295	A respectable president. I think we've got a slight problem in this discussion because we've come here with a suggestion to improve the interest of older citizens and poor people to a minimum of 300 yous. K. but they've been cut off by a whale. A senator and members of the administrations. Such suggestions have been refused, and now they are. A senator here declaring that this is exactly what he wants to do, and I wonder if the President... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u296	Hv. A senator is involved in a material discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u297	I'm talking to the President. As a result, I wondered if in some way a president can make it really possible for me and the senators to sit down and achieve these goals together, to work on this budget bill that we are here to achieve this goal. I think that's what we're talking about. Councilmen describing these goals here are not taking advantage of this opportunity to initiate these increases according to country's pay raise, but their suggestions are quite different. [[The president calls.]] I think a president should have the means to achieve his goals at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u298	A respectable president. During discussions about the President's conference board, there must be equal talk between members of Congress and governments, and I think that it was a struggle. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, who went to the limit of the material discussion without comment, made comments. [[Up front.]] I have to make a comment to such a meeting board. [[Up front.]] At the same time, I have to use this opportunity to encourage it, just because this is an important material discussion, and I understand a president that she wants that discussion to take place under the program rather than a meeting management, to be done. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson puts himself on a rosary so that we can listen to his language and take the material discussion in place and also the vice president of the welfare committee. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir, who is not silent here, gave a talk in her vision of material things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u299	Madam President. It's kind of my job here tonight to defend the highest. President. I come here to pray. A senator to look through his fingers at this highest. President. She has no doubt seen that we members of the Parliament have become a matter of hearing an individual attitude. The members of the board, and I think it's better to go. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson is wrong about this, under the President's conference board, but of speaking. I'm imagining what's happened. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson just wouldn't dare it after listening to the Mass that has been brought over him tonight. In case of a moment. A senator prefers to come to the President's shelter for a discussion about the President's conference board to shoot in one piece, and I'm just grateful for that. I appreciate it. A member of the council knows that in him a righteous heart sleeps and struggles to give away what he really means. I expect the highest. The president allows him to shoot at each of the other's conversations to talk about the President's conference board and only make his impression. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u300	V.E.G. President. I'm just going to step into the material discussion that is in place for the President's conference board and express my admiration for a meeting manager who has been exemplary. It is difficult not to allow members of the Parliament to have a material discussion at the time, but I intend to express less satisfaction with the way things are going, and I look forward to seeing it through the night.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u301	...in a speech?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u302	I'm going to ask the President to continue meeting for a while so we can finish this good discussion here tonight. [[Up front.]] [[Top of the line: speech!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u303	Madam President. I'd like to split into three of my speeches, which is my first discussion of the budget, first of all, to discuss only the general change that I believe has been made in how we're going to win the budget since I took my place at council 2007 and I believe that it is marked by a very large policy-making decision made under the budget. In some respects, I feel that it explains why this discussion has been much longer since I took place here in 2007, and people have been talking about and making a lot of conversations. But I think, and will only go further on that afterward, that it is not strange to itself to the decisions that are now being made through the budget. Second, I will tore only the big issues that have been discussed, especially by the representatives of the government position. Then I'm quoting health issues, pensioners, and state radio. Third, I would like to discuss some smaller issues that call my attention to the adjustments in the parts I consider to raise questions about how we do financial work and what decisions are made through them. First only about the major policy. I have criticized, and I want to reiterate the criticism here, that I don't think much of that in view of the fact that a budget is the key bill of each government sector -- in terms of political policy and priorities, which are what triggers our system -- that when we're here on a budget we're putting up with a number of cases through crowns and pennies without a satisfactory political debate at the General Assembly. For example, we can mention transportation. No transport plan has been adopted since 2012. The last transport program adopted until 2012. [[Up front.]] There have been some forms of transport that have not been completed. No transport plan has yet been submitted at this council, but both in budgets and then on budgets here on the financial bill are put in place for transport without reviewing the case at the right time. Hv. No transport plan has been discussed by the Environment and Transport Committee. We have a legal arrangement that tells us how to prioritize transportation resources. And they just don't follow that legal procedure, but some money got into it through the budget. We also have laws that say we should make a plan of action on how we are involved in developing cooperation. Where's that plan? The last approved plan has been decommissioned under financial laws. This was suggested in June the last motion for a plan that was not approved. In budgets, the proportion of GDP has become lower than that of the proposal we received from the highest level. Secretary of State in June, and there is no suggestion. The Parliament of Iceland has not received a policy political discussion on which funds to spend on developing cooperation. These are just two examples of how we are putting date-making decisions through the budget. I can go back to high school. It makes a decision to apply a set set set set set priorities for writing to school. I agree that there has to be some priorities for you in school. Then it is a political decision how much money we spend on the system that controls whether everyone gets space or not. Last funds made a decision not to get space, saying: "It's a priority. The political decision is not that we discuss the priorities of the council or if we are content not to have space but is to be done through the budget. In the methodology, dating major political decisions will be put in through budgets, even on the 2nd. Money, which I'm not going to blame specifically on this government, but I am absolutely convinced that in eight years, there has been a significant change in the number of years, and all of it makes it easier for us not to take the discussion at the right time. The members of the council are involved in their litigation. When it comes to donations for development cooperation, I am a foreign committee. I'll say what. Environmental and transport committees when it comes to the transport process. I'd like to mention a universal and educational committee, which, of course, should discuss what policy it is not to take all students into high school - but we're doing this through the budget. I think it might be worth considering whether we want to work this way. I believe, Madam President, that we would have been better informed that we had been involved in the transport discussion and the discussion of contributions to development cooperation in the strategy for developing cooperation. Thus, we do not sit here and really discuss the entire area, so to speak, in discussions about budgets, but should be the main law of the policy and the discussion that would have taken place at the council. I don't know why. Senators are interested in work practices, and I feel that the work procedure here is not an indication of much interest in them. Here are members of the Council of Prime Ministers, and I wondered if there is no reason for this to be discussed. It is not a good practice to put all the decisions into the budget, then discuss them for days before Christmas, thus preventing the public from getting proper information about the policy-making decisions that are being made. Of course, there will be a discussion of these issues of semi-translucent nature, and we will stick to them when we have everything at once, and in fact, there are only a few things that will go through in public discussion. For example, we saw in the high school case that I mentioned earlier that people came to know about them a few months after the budget was approved, being astonished. Yes, we were in the budget for a number of days last year. Yeah, that's right. Is this being discussed in the budget? No one works like this, Madam President. I think it's a good reason for all members of the House and Prime Committee or some member here who has something to say about how this council is being conducted - I don't really know who it is, but according to order, it should be a prime committee - this should be discussed. It's just not an option to ignore the legal process and to overlook it with macropolitical languages. What is the budget, and what is it about the income elements that we will discuss here? It's about the structure of our community, how we distribute and set our priorities for the money we attend. They focus on the amount of money we visit and reach, and they are about how we define civilized society. That's what the budget is supposed to give us, it's supposed to give us some civilized society comparable to the communities we compare with. It is not good for us to discuss all these differences. As I say, the budget should be the end of the discussion that has been conducted during the council all year before. I think this is a tragic development, Madam President, and I think it's a reason to reconsider. I wasn't here last week, because I was doing other jobs on behalf of the international council, and I don't know how much this has been being discussed here, but I think it's kind of scandalous how we handled these matters. If we look at the big lines in the budget, the initials without the irregular joints, and consider the proportion of co-administration is clearly clear the political policy of this more controlled sector. The consumption as a proportion of GDP is down, and society's income companies are being weakened. It is a political choice, and it was perfectly clear when the government took over that political choice and the decision was to lower taxes. I'm not gonna use my minutes here to recall all of them, but I can do it on dog spray. The wealth tax was permitted to expire. The energy tax was permitted to expire. They were about to reduce the paces of income taxation. In short, they began to lower taxes on those who had the most. At the left, we have suggested that the wealth tax be restored and that it be used to build a new land hospital. It's a project I would have thought we could all agree on. It was under attack to reduce hunting costs and to review in the best minds of the panels to the budget how the state's income has been combined because of a reduction in fishing costs. They were about to raise food taxes against one of the administrations, at least His stated will. It was time to increase taxes on culture, music, and books, but it was decided to defend a billion people over the next five years in building a new government agency for reading. At times, you may feel that what seems to be a different angle in the priorities of the administrative element. The trunks are weak, and the interpolation is contracting, and it's the big lines of the budget bill. That's why the changing proposals that my part has proposed, the way we want to build a community, whether we think we can do better to secure what I call a civilized society. What's been here most in this week's discussion is the ideal pensioner. The administrative body has rightly pointed out that these groups are experiencing a significant percentage increase. The percent increase just doesn't tell the whole story. A 9.4% increase yields more than 13 hours to pensioners. K. per month on extra provisions. If we look at this group and the data submitted by the Quantum Community that has been tireless to remind us of the positions of its members, we will find monthly provisions for microorganism, which will be paid to our home by the President, 187,507k. One who lives with another 18 years of age or older will receive 172 you. K. Of course, it's the only part of the story you're looking at is a percentage rise. These people live in the same community as with members of Congress. These people need to go to the same camp that we senators go to to to buy food. These people need to be considered by the Corporate Community to a minimum of 348,537k. for provisional revenues. That's 482,846 k. for tax. These people have to do all the things ordinary people do. This does not mean talking about these groups as if it were a temporary situation. Among the pensioners, we have large groups of people who have been unable to stay at work and who are judged to this position. I would like to say that not one man chooses disability as his lot. I strongly support these groups for all the support we can give them as a community to encourage them for greater activity, but the system is not particularly encouraging today, as we already know, as are already known in return by a dollar. The system is not encouraging to take part - time jobs, special projects, or anything to increase income and improve benefits. We also know, according to this same opinion, the Qualified Community says that the vast majority of the country's population wants these groups to gain a better standing. I also know that it costs money, a lot more than 6 billion, but when we look at making up all the taxes I mentioned earlier, whether they are money, fishing, or energy tax, it's a priority, of course. The present administrative body has chosen to reduce the taxes and costs of about 10 billion, but for example, to improve the quality of these groups. Thus, no matter how we turn them, Madam President, the facts of the matter are involved. As for older citizens, we have excellent data on them too. I referred to an answer earlier to the highest answer. Well-being minister to ask you why. A deputy member of the United States, Erna Indriðadóttir's daughter, found that 70% of the senior citizens had an income of 300 thousand. The suggestion of the memory of the part is to bring the terms of these groups in stages up to 300 you. K. consistent with what has been done in the labour market. It is about the same cost of living regardless of your position. We need to make sure that people in this society earn enough for a decent life. I would also like to make the medical matter a topic of conversation. When it comes to actual health expenditures, we are in line with the new OECD figures, 23rd place in terms of the proportion of health costs of land production of 8.7%, comparing 11% in Sweden and 10.4% in Denmark. However, the use of these funds is very good in our system. I think it is important to look at what has happened to the National Hospital's representatives at a meeting of financial committees and elsewhere, that the hospital's directors appreciate it as an increase of 1.7% annually as a result of population growth and changing ages. So it's not because of anything other than normal, demographic circumstances. These increases are not expected to be made in the hospital. Another factor that the hospital has identified is that there is not one agreement for calculating the costs of a new medical watch program that was negotiated in the last collective agreements and in the best members of the Committee. paritaprevir "Oddricon Harðardóttir, a representative of a budget board, " says the Ministry of Health, "is missing 400 million." K. The contract is fully improved by the hospital. There we are talking about large sums of money, which the smaller part suggests the hospital will be improved. Health matters, as my witness again to the polls, are the legal class that the people want to establish. I think it is very important that we listen to the requirements and priorities in behalf of the Land hospital in these funds and listen to the demands of the hospital officials. I'd like to make the State Radio a subject. There's been a debate here, and it's been published in the seven stories tonight, I'm told, at the highest. Education minister that he does not have support in presenting a bill he had previously announced that a radio charge would not be dropped to 16,400k. This, of course, is surprising in view of the ultimate. The minister has repeatedly proclaimed this bill, but as it is known, the decision to reduce the radio charge to the decommission of the bill on a variety of criteria for budgeting for 2014 was taken from the Council of December 20, 2013, on the contrary to what has been said here to reduce radio costs to be responsible for the last government. 20th degree. The laws I quote here indicate that the exact price is $1,700. in 2015 and 16,400 in 2016. I don't suppose anyone has forgotten, not any man, because we had quite a place to say about this in our discussion of budgets last year. In 2011 it was decided that the radio charge would be $18800. That number was attached to new radios. On the basis of the budget set up in 2013, however, the price was first raised to 19,400k. In accordance with prices and other sources of funding, this reduction was specifically handled. I think this is delirium, and I think it's the highest. Ministers of education have given a good reason not to turn the radio fee down, as the government had previously decided. Among other things, he has pointed out that the cost of distribution is beyond what was foretold. He has also noted that the directors of the Kingdom Radio have gathered in business about 5%, apart from promoting policies that at least I understand, I don't know what it is, but I've been able to understand what's been through at the highest level. Minister to match any lines he would like to set when it comes to a new service contract. I'm surprised that in view of all that has happened since then, the majority of these parts continue to make such efforts to lower the radio charge, both on operating operations and on the emphasis being placed on the State Radio. This surprises me, and I'm surprised to learn that. Ministers do not have the support of members of the council. It was also noted in this same news period that the officials of the administrations had made the highest authority. Ministers realize that his bill does not have the support of government councils. I think there's a hell of a way to go. Minister has entered a very strange position in the administrative sector. It will be very interesting to hear his answer if it does. It was suggested that some other means were being considered. I hope, of course, something comes out of it, but I don't know how it is about the former bill as the highest level. A minister long ago proclaimed that this is suddenly beginning to appear in the administrative sector. I don't completely understand the arrangement that has taken place and what kind of happens to the highest level. A minister gets this in the face after the General staff program is over. I think it's a strange procedure. I also said earlier that I wanted to discuss only what I called smaller matters, though not very small. I noticed that some of them had a bad night. Councilmen have requested an answer, including representatives from the administrative sector. I hope they can find seconds in their answers to explain something to me. Here's a suggestion for more than 75 million changes. K. will be provided to initiate the preparation and design of the 4,500 square feet office building for the General Assembly instead of renthouses. It's in itself an idea I think is good. The Presidency Committee has calculated that it may be more practical for the Council to build new buildings, rather than rent housing. If it's really more economical for the Council, I think there's something to consider. What interests me is, here is the proposal, by permission of the President: ▪ When preparing a project, the plans for building in the General Assembly shall be taken into consideration in 1918, as set out by the former State superintendent of Samúelsson's God, the former superintendent, and the plans for memorial events related to the coming anniversary of Iceland's sovereign year. On April 1, a news report appeared on the front page of the newspaper reporting that a pedestrian decree to build a building at the Council in accordance with the plans of the Guðjón of Samúelsson. A number of surprises, especially those on the Presidency Committee that has been preparing such a new structure were not intended to have the plans of the Guðjón of Samúelsson, the son of God in their care. On that same day, I was invited to a meeting at the Ministry of Presidency by the Prime Minister, where I and other presidents of the anti - held parties were introduced to a Senate hearing of three teams that was about to be attacked in the construction of the Icelandic House, that the International Assembly Hall should be built and conducted in the Field. I told them, and I can say again that I strongly supported the construction of St. Special assembly proposals for a specific style of house. I also inquired about whether the constructions on the Parliament were in harmony with what had been discussed on the Þingalval Committee, since later I understood that it was not. I asked the highest. As a result of this council arrangement, the prime minister is here early in the fall, since the synopsis itself never appears. She never showed up. This is yet another example of matters that are not being discussed in the Assembly Hall. V.E.G. The prime minister then said that he was going to work on this Senate resolution. It hasn't been seen since, but what happens here? Now she'll do some adjustments with a budget bill. Samúelsson's son is here himself, but the synopsis has never been submitted. We heard some rumors that it was trapped in the Independence Party. V.E.G. The prime minister said that he was not in that category so that he could not say anything more about it, but this is another example of how it is used to make money to make political decisions that are avoided in the audience. Is it acceptable for the president to start by introducing a Senate resolution with the front cover story of April 1, taking custody of the General Building Buildings that hear the Commission's commission from a privileged prime committee, suggesting that the Senate resolution proposal has disappeared, and never distributed in Congress - and then a part of it was presented in a financial debate in the adjustment of a more part of the legal committee? I'll ask you, then, where's the rest of the motion? Where is The House of Iceland? I don't see that the High School of Iceland does not get any authority to start using its resources to build the building yet buried the foundation. And do people feel that it is more important to go to this building than to build over the manuscripts of UNESCO, a completed building? Is it just because that design was done in the last government? I'm going to let me inform the President that it began with the plans of the last government so that it would not have to be any complicated matter for the Independence Party to continue with it, for it was the minister of education of the Independence Party, the Þorgerður of Katrín Gunnarsdóttir, the good one. A former senator, who started that matter and began it. I would have thought that the members of the party could have come to an end by completing the case here. But you can't see it. However, there is a Guðjón - given capacity for making changes. I'm asking, why don't we take this discussion normally, Madam President? I welcome the change in the share's capacity of 80 million. K. a donation to the Happy Age Fund of the University of Iceland. I've had this inquiry to the highest level. The prime minister from October 7, and now December 14th. V.E.G. The prime minister has not been able to answer my inquiry, which is about the committee to set up for the anniversary plan for the University of Iceland. The General Assembly of Iceland agreed on one of these funds to celebrate the 100th anniversary of Iceland's University and agreed that a committee and its objective would be to work on the promotion of university levels and the promotion of contributions so that Iceland could first make it into a couple with other OECD states, and secondly, a couple with other northern countries later. It says that a correct group was set up and that the suggestions of the group reached 2014 but I haven't yet heard of it because my inquiry has not been answered here, whether a new group has been set, whether 80 million of these are proposed, and I believe that there are some longer-term programme and how to predict the contributions to 2020. It would be very interesting to know, Madam President. I also wondered about these smaller issues over the years, the University Research for Aggression, 58 million. K. a donation under the Department of Employment and Development. It's an old story, the Department of Professional Railroad has strengthened Iceland's National Farming University for Research, but at the same time it's been the privilege of uniting Iceland's Farmer College in Innunciation, Hóla University, and University of Bifrost at one University. That wasn't the last decision I had when I asked the highest one. Secretary of education on that matter. There's been a working team under the lead of two years. Senators. I asked the highest. A minister of this recently arrived did not have a report from the staff, but here is still a contribution to research, no doubt a good case, no doubt something we can all short - lived in, but would we not like to have some overall picture? Do we not want to know exactly what the three schools would be like together? Wouldn't it be nice to have a plan, Madam President? In fact, this is also true of the types of donations listed here used in travel research. The proposals for a large portion of this section are expected to include 150 million. K. in travel studies. I agree with that. Travel studies are very important and have been neglected. It is expected that the provision of these funds will be agreed with the priorities of travel management. Madam President. We have an excellent research system in the country. Scientific and technical advisers have long spoken to the simple systems, that we have fewer funds than we do, that we divide them according to the seminaries, and that they are distributed money from competitive pursuits, i.e. to apply for money in this fund and to divide the funds according to specific criteria, the Cretarians, its quality guaranteed by objective judicial committees, and to be replaced at regular intervals. That arrangement has given us ample opportunity, e.g. as we visit the National Research Centres of Iceland and the Research Fund of Iceland. This arrangement, I would have liked to see when it comes to professional research, that we were on the same route, that the simple system, reduce funds, bring funding for research under a coordinated system where we guarantee quality and competitiveness. However, this is a contract to agree with the priorities of travel management. There is no mention of the role of the research centres of tourism as well as of the university in the field of travel studies. It does not seem that this is to be done in competitive terms, but it is merely referred to as treaties. Is that a good use of research money? Do we think this is in harmony with the approved scientific and technical policies of how we build up our fund system? I'll have to question it. Once again, we are making political decisions in the middle of our budget talk without any discussion we may have. We have a range of instruments that are working in the community, and instead of the International Council of Iceland taking their work and working out of it, as in the case of the Scientific and Technical Council of Technology, the General Assembly decides to sludge 150 million in its travel research through a recently established government committee, the Control Board of travel. Sadly, this is not the only case. One thing that the last government did and has been bitten since then was to establish a so - called national parish program. The ideas behind them were that the part of the country made its own plans for parishion Opportunities, we can say, i.e. what they wanted to emphasize in their building ups in their business affairs, education, and other matters, and what their weaknesses were. There was a definite analysis in each part of the country. People, the presidents of the institutions, corporations, rural rulers of different rural areas, were called in contrast, and this was started. Every part of the country had its national meeting where opportunities were open for discussion. The mission was designed to be democratic. The first thing the current government did was try to cut it down into practically nothing. She raised several protests, even from her fellow members in various rural governments across the country, so not all the way was to kill this fine phenomenon but to continue to have application plans in various parts of the country. Nevertheless, I feel that there have been a number of problems that have been observed in the development of a special northwest committee that has been active on the side of the parish plan system, which suggests a number of budgets that know the 2nd. ... abundant. These include a number of fine, worthwhile tasks that I am absolutely sure had been taken along with the parish plans for the country if that work had been allowed to continue and flourish. Instead, this is done indiscriminately, where certain people are called and arranged to offer proposals to protect the taxpayers'funds in a project in a designated area. Not all local stakeholders go to the public. It's not a career we have. Why not, Madam President? Why don't we take advantage of the process that has been developed and people have come to, all units of the country, I allow myself to say, of different areas that involved that process and felt that it mattered? It was based on local policy, not necessarily a set priority in budgets at the General Assembly, down here in the South, but a fixed pot for setting priorities. What surprised me very much when I learned that each part of the country was the focus of the individual's initiative and the design of the infrastructure that individuals had the best opportunity to develop their own opportunities for employment. I can't see that this new-born idea is necessarily going on here. Here, for example, 30 million are laid for the development of an industrial field in Mediterranean areas, which, of course, are ideas that have existed there about another part of the world. This may be surprising in our current discussion of changing job structure and looking more at the initiatives of individuals. I don't really understand why the parish program has been abandoned, that old - fashioned thought of the Northwestern commission that was when I started at a council, that was exactly what some parts of the country had to do with this procedure. I didn't see any special pleasure in that kind of work, Madam President, if I'm to be completely honest, so I think it's bad that we've gone back to that kind of work. It's not because many of these projects are not good, I know many of the fine projects under which they are, and I'm pretty sure they've got a track gang in the parish program. I'm going to say at the end of my talk that I'm not surprised that this discussion has been delayed. The political debate we should have here in September, October, and November, whether of the transport program, development cooperation, high school policy, or application policies, as I said earlier, all have been included in a discussion about budgets. In fact, the political debate we should have had about the famous synod that disappeared, of the joy of the sovereignty, has even come into the form of a contribution to build a house in the spirit of the God of Samúelsson son, although the rest of the proposal had been lost. I'm telling you from The House of Iceland that the council arrangement has found its way in here and asks where it lies, in view of the fact that this hole is buried and that we have to decide if we're gonna fill it up. There's a possibility there won't be a house ready for 2018 if we don't start doing 2016. Should I understand, then, that the government has decided that this house will not be built, that when the Council's decree disappears somewhere in the process, it has disappeared from the House of England and that it will be opposed to its being built? I wondered, in view of the fact that there is no change in proposal, but here is a motion for a new assembly in the spirit of the Guðjón of Samúelsson. Madam President. It is only hoped that if you and I are in opposition to the government, you will ask a number of questions in this discussion and that it will take time. There are political questions that I agree with those who feel that these discussions are long. These political questions should be answered at a different time in the Council. We should not have to ask all these questions right now. We should have agreed to a transport program. We should have an approved development team here. We should have talked about policy in college. We should have information about what is about the university in the northwestern district. In view of the fact that this has not been done by the Honourable Minister, we need to take this discussion now and I don't think it's a good workman, Mrs. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u304	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for the speech. I can agree with many points presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator's method of making budgets in general is from the fact that a budget bill is submitted and until the day it reaches 2nd. ... thenthenabout3rd. I'd like to ask you what. A senator because of what she was discussing on The State Radio. There's a reason why I'm at the highest. The Minister of Education spoke of the need to keep the radio charge at 17,800. For example, instead of 16,400, there is a dissociative agreement involving the public system that costs the radio much money. Got it. A senator that when authorities in the institution make such an informed decision, would such a decision probably be made on the basis of tax returns to pay them unscrupulous decision, while the managers of the Agency need not come together because of such a decision? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u305	Madam President. This was shown in the case of the highest. Ministers to the Agency's executives had convened and cut down on business by 5%. V.E.G. During the last week, a minister spoke about that subject. It has also been observed that there have been measures, such as setting up property sales around the U.S. Radio to improve debt. I can't agree that nothing has been done to meet this situation. I'm also going to tell you that I believe that the emphasis we've seen at the State Radio is very much in harmony with the lines laid on the Government Radio Act and will be expected to be placed on the Service Convention, which includes the scattered settlements and on increased material for children. I believe that the emphasis on what the Kingdom News has been doing is in harmony with what has been being discussed in the General Assembly. I think it is only natural for governments to meet the State. They have done so at the highest. Minister. But I also support the highest. Ministers in the inability to continue with the reduction of the pay so that effective national radios can continue to be assured here. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A minister has proclaimed that if this price is dropped, it will have a significant effect on the content of the Kingdom Radio. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u306	A respectable president. Let's understand why. So when a manager in any institution makes decisions about investment, which are just as lost as this, and the funds that it made, could have taken the long way by making Iceland's pipeline, this cost 4 billion, it is estimated that the opticization could cost about 6 billion, and the officials make strange decisions, they should in no way have to bear responsibility for it and cut down an institution in harmony with the unscrupulous decision made? Power understands why. A senator would think that such a course should not be made?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u307	Madam President. Like what? paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir heard very well in my previous answer, and she's been by the highest court. Minister to the management of the Agency has cut down. [[Up front.]] I believe that it is perfectly normal, as in other public institutions, that it is the cooperation of governments and governments to resolve the decline. We know many of such cases from public institutions where governments have cut down on business, and government funds have met them. V.E.G. The secretary of finance also spoke for such solutions last week when we were discussing how to deal with institutions. There I believe that interaction is normal. I think it's important what happened at the highest. Minister that certain measures have already been taken. I think it's best to watch the Council when we're talking about a decrease in the radio charge that it's already been done. That's what I'm gonna do with the highest. Ministers of Independence, Secretary of finance and Education.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u308	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a nice speech. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the museum team and the job plan. We're seeing more of the museum team back to the budget board - they were transferred to the council that I think was a good step. After the members went to the Ministry, others have the authority, although the process should be transparent and so forth. But then I mention the following: The three poets fell in Akureyri somehow between a ship and a dock, and today the state of Nona House, David's house, and the Victory Hills do not support a single crown. Then I wondered, " What can a senator do? ' I'm not satisfied that we're sharing money, but how do we guarantee equality when the troops are inside the Ministry? I think we agree that we want the museum crew there, but at the same time, we'd like to have something to say if we feel that the exchange is unfair. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u309	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. There is no simple solution. It is always important to ensure transparency of public funds. I can say with what. A senator that when the members were brought into the Ministry, many experienced less transparency in terms of how these funds were spent, yet in some respects, the same projects received from councils as had previously received strength from the General Assembly. However, this was so when I started my work at the General Assembly that a billion people were assigned by a trust board. Nor did I feel that there was a hundred thousand that were being handed out on the part of a legal committee. I think it is very important, in order to ensure that the project is provided with some sort of professional intervention committees, such as in culture, which then has an appointed time so that it does not become permanent in office to ensure certain innovation and change the viewpoint. It's not just politicians who have strong opinions on matters, there are other people who can have strong opinions, so I think that a certain rooting is important in this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u310	A respectable president. I think this is a reasonable approach, and I think a professional committee, where people would be regularly replaced, could be a good subject. This may be the case with the national parish program. A number of projects were being put into the professional process - but it has already been built up and general pleasure - and we see that projects are being resumed that should have exactly been included in the national parish program. How disappointing it is to see that real injections are not injected because they are actually built up! I agree with that. A senator who spoke of it. And the Northwest Committee - Thinks of it, should we make northeastern committees, a Southern Committee, named in the south of the East, and so along the streets, where does that end? [[Up front.]] The Committee for Southern West must have made sure of the weather, where does this end? What does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u311	Madam President. I say as a member of the Reykjavík District of the north that I think a Grafarvog committee must be the next of all committees. But this without a joke, I think we should ask ourselves, " How can I expand our democratic work on the budget? ' We should be able to unite in various categories and political policies. Participation in budgetmaking is what large numbers of rural societies have been trying in many parts of Europe and the United States, i.e. to get the people who are affected by what is being determined to do so more fully. We live here in that land of 300,000 people, a land of 220,000 people. We have an excellent opportunity to participate in budget making. The General financial committee may try to make a career, allowing the public to become more involved in this process and even about how money is spent. People feel that such a process is complicated, but because it has been tried, it has often achieved tremendous success. I think that regardless of all the left and right, all of us should be able to unite that we would like to make our budget democratic so that the people of the country could have a share in the budget so approved here at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u312	Madam President. What has brought my attention to this discussion, especially today, is that both the executives of the management team have found in the media sales as well as in the media were complaining and complaining about how the government's opposition handles the issues. [[Take it up to: It's a great deal of business.]] Madam President. If not now, when has there been a need for deep discussion of the matter of budgeting? Today we live what the bank manager has called the Bank of America's blues. At the same time, it is clear that at least 2.9 billion people are needed to cope with Land Hospital last year. Similarly, the board of directors seems to be getting back from elections by Christmas without improving the elderly and the poor. They are the only group that can't get back - up improvements like everyone else. [[Up front.]] I'm asking why. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter: Can she intend to keep from here for Christmas and finish her jobs without some way the government meets the reasonable demands of government opposition on increased funds for the land hospital and on increased funds for the elderly and the desperate? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u313	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I said in my speech that I realized that the suggestions offered by the government had cost money. They do, but the actions the government has undertaken, e.g. In tax losses and in reciprocations, money has also been costed. We may want to discuss the side of the matter when the officials of the administrations come saying: " It's too big to do anything about it. Then we should examine the income that, for example, ran out on the wealth tax or went away with a reduction in fishing costs. There were big numbers, too. That amount of money is not now used to improve the situation at the Land Hospital, and we do not use it to improve the situation of the poor and the elderly. Therefore, I have said and repeated in my speech that it is perfectly normal for us to discuss these matters, but the conclusion of this financial discussion must always be the responsibility of the more than one member of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u314	Madam President. Of course, we're right next to it. A member of the body and this discussion will always be responsible. Governments. However, it does matter that the elderly and the poor are not represented during this assembly. It is important that this council also be represented by the National Hospital. I feel that what mattered to me in these last days has already been refuted. The members of the board have been saying, as it were. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson, who claimed that this was a dramatic increase in the last few years of this government to the Land Hospital, when it has been publicized in the media that it is all nonsense. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It turns out that there is a total of 2.9 billion missing in terms of land management last year. [[Up front.]] Under those circumstances, I feel that there's a half pain in my mind. The members of the board complain that men try to stand in their place and lead them to a better position, though some of them, like former legal directors, have become quite faint by tonight's eyes. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u315	Madam President. Thank you. A senator resists. I think the point of this matter is, as I went over in my speech, that we could have had political discussions here in the fall of all sorts of subjects we're discussing right now if the top. Ministers would have been able to put up a matter, if a transport plan had been submitted, a developing teamwork plan and what all of this is called, all the cases I discussed here about things that were not revealed by the Supreme Court. Counsellors, but decisions are taken through the budget. Of course, government officials are not to complain about the opposition. Government officials are not to complain about the political opposition. However, directors should complain at the highest level. Minister for not having necessary political discussions about his policy issues at the council. That's the problem. It's about how the Council operates. I believe that we here, general members of Congress, I'm not the greatest of them all. Ministers, should at least be able to unite in changing this discussion and should not be pointing one another out. [[The president calls.]] It's the Ministers who don't treat matters. It is the Ministers who are responsible for making political decisions through budgets that we should have discussed in a completely different way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u316	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I have to admit that where there's a problem. A senator is a former minister of the last government. I think it skates a little bit lightly over various things. I think it's okay. A senator who was a minister of education when this blessed distribution system was bought, I think it's an evil thing, explained only why they were going on that road. Similarly, when you examine the number of employees in the last term, it is not convincing. The number and proportion of foreign affairs had increased, and I don't fully understand why, because you have become so concerned about health matters, all of a sudden, with all due respect. In the same way, you bring suggestions that can't be donated. Of course, tax monitors are in the dark. To put in here that interest from financial institutions is raising about 8 billion, you're not raising any money. It's just the Bank Office as you've asked. [[The president calls.]] The same is true of the other factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u317	Madam President. Just so we're only getting close to the State Radio it's true that I served the minister of Education in the last government. I kept making it a subject of conversation in this hall, like a dog. A senator may remember, that it is very important to explain the responsibility around the U.S. Radio. This was one of the things attempted to do with a new government law on the State Radio when this was the U.S. Government by the State Radio and the establishment of the Ministry of Education were a service agreement with the Agency. [[Up front.]] An attempt was made to explain this responsibilities chain. The distribution system is determined to purchase from government and government directors of the Government Radio. There are certain ways in which a minister of education has been explained, and I don't have much time to go over. That's one of the things I mentioned earlier that I wanted to see, certainly. Then they brought up the figures that were supposed to stand; they have not stood. It is a responsibility, indeed, both government and others. I agree that this responsibility is clear. [[The president calls.]] I have to use my second answer to discuss just the taxpaying and the remuneration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u318	A respectable president. There was no question about the fact that the government was there in a large part of the last government. It would be nice for a person to explain the reasons for that. It was an investment of the magnitude that it could not be a small matter. I repeat, I don't find it convincing - one is, I understand that it had to be saved during the last term, well understood, but it can't be claimed that in the last term, people have set their priorities for health care, no matter how you look about it. I think the big talk is mostly high among those in the last government. I have all those numbers and I can completely review it in detail and I will. There's something else, a respectable president, an improvement in IRS, it's in the air, and everyone knows it. There's nothing in your hand, 4 billion. More like a special tax on electricity. A letter from what? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon confirms that such taxes will not be put on. Pays from financial institutions. [[The president calls.]] They're after Bank County, and there's not much or nothing left to it. Government opposers have proposed that this trade should govern these matters. There won't be any more money if you put a number like that down.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u319	Mr. President. It was coming up with a recent analysis showing the government's opinion that the tax charge is about 80 billion dollars. This has been observed by the head of state tax, and I say 4 billion, that's what I'd say a plan on what can be recovered compared to the tax collection estimated from the head of state tax. [[Up front.]] Of course, in order to improve tax control, we need to place money on it. We have seen such investments come back. There doesn't have to be any alien scientist to do that, for example, from our neighboring countries. I've been talking about buying tax documents too, using information agreements, and improving general tax returns. I can't believe it. A senator agrees with me that this is important. [[Up front.]] In terms of our money, they have been evaluated here far below what they have been found in financial terms, so I think we are actually making more realistic plans than have been placed in budgets on finance. [[The president calls.]] I can't figure it out - why. A senator will only leave the hall, but I would have thought that we could join in trying to prevent tax fraud and do so by improving tax control, Madam President. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u320	A respectable president. I will continue my first talk, where my work was changed. I went over a story pretty fast at the end of the story because I went through the committee opinion of my third section. Maybe I'll repeat something I said then, but I hope I'll forgive it. I had entered the chapter on which governments and most of the parts I have, in fact, discussed quite a lot here because I think it's a very special procedure that's becoming more common, but it wasn't much of the budget for 2014, i.e. at work that took place in the fall of 2013 They were not taking in various museums and other groups to whom they had been assigned. Last year, it was quite surprising how many members and others were involved, and these groups had entered the suggestions of the greater part. It was then said that the third sector had been forgotten. Then a number of adjustments are added to a financial committee that I would like to have been examined in the plots. I'd especially like to name four of them. It is being ensured by means of changes in funds that a particular organisation is not to be handled, and it is being paid up to a host house in another institution, and so on. It is extremely difficult for us to find ourselves in a financial situation with individual organisations. Then there is the importance of equality. All kinds of agencies, museums, and others face economic problems. In that case, the directors must be tailored for growth, cutting down, and trying to make a payback. If you're going into some type of arrangement that's been made, it's a very specific procedure. I spoke to the highest. To this day's secretary of finance, he gave it a good answer, I thought, had to know what the organization was going to do, how the Ministry was going to meet it, and as if the business had been stabilised. I don't know about these cases. This has not been discussed in a budget. I don't know if our business in these institutions is balanced or if we'll be back on the team in two years. It may also be carefully calculated, and a large amount of work and analysis may have been performed. I just haven't seen her, and that's what I'm critical of. I've been talking about the museum crew. I don't think I'll spend any more time on them and how important it is that, as most of them are in museums or funds, competitive funds, where general regulations and government laws apply, cannot be questioned by what kind of funding is provided. I think it's very important to all of us who are not supposed to share money with us - I'm not necessarily talking about being friends or something like that, we each have a certain field of interest, we know well in certain areas, but we can never get started. If we put money in a single institution, we can be sure that there are 20 others with equal rights for more money, we just don't know what the situation is. Therefore, I feel that these matters are important to me, since we should be with experts who know the matter. On the other hand, I shall quite admit that in the scheme of things, people are in power, and it is not very beneficial to share money out. Even in answer to a minister, we have been advised that they have led the teams into the budget. There is concern that the Ministers do not take responsibility for these groups. This is where the Northwest Committee has been discussed. I think it's perfectly normal that we have plans to make this country stronger. But I would so much like to see the funding provided through the national parish program so that there are actually locals who make decisions on the procedure we've created by the application procedure. It was a good procedure, and the first time I left the country, I thought it was hardly part of a rural society that did not mention a national parish program and the disappointment of how much had been cut down there. It went from 400 million. K. of 2013 budget down to 15 million. K. On the 2014 budget bill. It was in direct order. All rural groups. It had taken time to create this system, and those processes were happy for them. We're supposed to listen to it. And it is good that more money is being put in the national parish program. I think it's up to a hundred, maybe it's up to 200 million. K. ... witha change of motion. [[Up front.]] - Yeah. That's good. But I say, more funding in there, I would have liked to see that the funding would only go to the national parish program to the national part of the country, to be said. I just want to talk about the state radio. There's a bit of a strange situation now. The goal is to lower the nasal tax next year, but the highest. Well, Minister of Education has been talking about retaining the price, but closer to that, maybe not the case through the government, I don't know. There's a lot of uncertainty in there. I'm not necessarily talking about how RUS has to get 5 billion or what RUSV is doing today is necessarily what RUS should be doing. I have my doubts about RUSB. But I'd still like to have a powerful organization, as independent as possible, a good news agency. I think it matters. ROV may simply be more involved in buying, not necessarily in production. For example, it may purchase material from an independent national radio station in the north called N4 and is only very cool, for example. But what I want to say is that the decision has not been made. The role of the MRV has not been defined. If you're gonna start lowering the radio charge, I think there's a new service contract that needs to be met, and there's some way you limit the extent of the operation. But what's being done now is my experience that it is being placed in the hands of a government and radio director to make some changes, but it should still meet certain obligations. Is it the government and radio manager to shape this course? Isn't it the Minister to shape policy? What's RUSH? What does RUV represent, and how do we like to have a RUV? Or is the government to shape policy? Since people have not come up with any idea of what to be like and haven't already introduced it in the council, they have to put it in the business that needs to be done. Well, that's my opinion, anyway. I don't regret paying $1,700 in RIV. But I will quite admit that I demand this institution. I'm not always happy with everything that's done there. Well, maybe we should just call it in. VOLUME, of course, has to prove its right to life. But I think it's very strange that everything is upset over some hundred-year-old nose tax. I don't understand the highest level of isolation. Secretary of education in this case. I think she's weird. But we may now be able to understand this matter before long. I hope so. I just want to talk about growth improvements. They go down and are expected to be 6.2 billion next year. When it has been criticized, as in the financial contributions, that growth rates have become less than expected, it is said that it is good if people owe less or if they earn more money. But I'm putting a question mark on the state's losing interest. Why will the Kingdom bring about the end of growth? Yes, because interest is high in Iceland. Perhaps it would be better to reduce the rate of growth by picking up a euro, for example? Another currency that has less interest, so the State doesn't have to pay people out there, people who decide to buy property? I'm just throwing it out here. We also see a measure of inequity in having renters and rent payments, not necessarily in any way consistent with what humans can receive if they have housing. Unfortunately, housing benefits, as I recall they were called, have not reached through, i.e. A system where people receive housing no matter whether they own their real estate or rent it. As the situation exists today, we treat people with respect to how they live. We can then debate if we want to have a special policy in Iceland. I think we can be like the rest of the North and Germany and other countries where a part of the country decides to live in a secure and secure tenure. People decide that they do not necessarily want a real estate, and they can actually do it well by renting rents all their life through tenants. I myself lived in a rented house in Denmark through a tenure, and it was incredibly comfortable, and there, too, renters have great rights. But we haven't done much, unfortunately, to make the lease ideal. If we are going to run some special policy, I wonder, " Should I not pick up another coin with less interest and risk these growth improvements? ' Actually, I'm gonna need to investigate if there's a head of growth reforms in other parts of the North. I just don't know. You may be able to do that in a new year when we have finished this discussion and are slowing down here. I just want to reiterate my criticism of some of these changes, such as an office building at the General Building. I don't criticize that there's supposed to be an office building, I think it's very necessary. The General Assembly is in the rest and these buildings, houses, and the offices of the Generals are all around us. This results in disaster. At some point, mold arose at a meeting place. I think it's easy to assume that building a new office building is a long-term cost. A general body on this property, but I am placing a large question mark on what is stated in the text of the revised proposal, which says that in preparation for preparation the plans for building up in the General Assembly for the Republic of 1918, as shown in the existing drawings of Samúelsson's son, the former government builder. And then I don't quite understand and I'm not going to repeat here. It's a little special writing into a budget bill, some definition of how the building should look. This film of the Guðjón of Samúelsson may be nice, but I think I'd rather have someone there with experts and architects appreciate it. No doubt it's best just to be competitive. That often works out well. However, I would like to reiterate my opinion as I think I also said in my previous talk that this Generals is a bit out - of - date. It's beautiful, indeed, but it's tight. It's a difficult access here, we couldn't have a president or a minister who was in a wheelchair, there's no room for a lot of people who need access, there may be six seats. I would like to see a new and larger council hall, which would also enable members of the council to speak from their seats. I like it strolling up here all the time, and a whole lot of the good stuff. I'll try to keep it up that if this building is taken up again, we'll think of the bioavailability issues and how we can make it available to everyone. When we received visitors for the summer, I don't remember if it was related to the women's 100th election anniversary, I think every person who came in here said, " Wow, it's much less than it looks on TV. People are surprised to see how narrow it is here. There is a new assembly hall in Sweden. During my visit, two members of the Senate met up with a pontina. And then there was good room for everyone. There had been some rule in the hall not to eat, but an apple could be eaten there. There was food to eat in the hall. Then the old room is much bigger than ours. It is used during solemn occasions and has its place as such. I really believe that we need to consider these matters. The situation is really unacceptable. We can't stay here, the Congress, and in fact we're restricting the number of disabled people. It's hard to be in here. It's just that way. We know that, don't we? We have an example. Since giving my speech, adjustments have been made that are significant and that reduce the rest. It was 10.7 billion. There was no way to expect remuneration from teachers' collective agreements, if I remember correctly, 1.2 billion. It's just a mistake made at the Ministry. I thought there was no need to argue here that the mistake was somehow responsible for more of the legal committee. It wasn't like that. It's not good, but it just happens and it could've happened to anyone. It's not the highest. Secretary of the budget or whatever. The chairman of a budget board that sits and calculates this. Of course, it's done in the Ministry, and everyone feels rather lost when this happens. That was 1.2 billion. Then, because of the transfer of disabled people to rural communities, there will be some sort of payment, 1.5 billion. This, 10.7 billion, is reduced inundated. What I could criticize is that it's getting a little bit small, considering that we have a bill that's then 700 billion, and the rest is about 1102% of the total package. That's not much. There's not much to worry about. In fact, it has been so that we have made more money from banks, the Bank of the Lands. But we may be counting on it a little, and we will do so in our changing schemes too. In fact, we're beginning to assume that the Lands Bank will yield more money than is proposed because that has been the case for the past few years. In terms of the change in the memory of the part, so I'll finish my speech with it, we'll contribute to the national and national application programme. As far as the hospital is concerned, they'll just be thrown out of bed. There's no dismissal of humans. If it's an accident, it's not like the door's closed and they say, "Sorry, the budget's up." I criticize that a minister does not make a practical plan for what it costs to run the Land Hospital. If he feels that the amount he puts in the budget is sufficient, he will follow through on it. Then the Landskeeper will simply have to stop doing some work he does today. Then the minister will have to take that action too. I can't picture him doing that. Perhaps because he knows that this is not realistic. So what happens is that if the land hospital doesn't get enough money, the debt just gets longer. It must be that way. Then we're just fooling ourselves. They're going to put money on a business basis at the Land Hospital, and I think it's a good thing. In fact, I thought the Ministry was doing business in its institutions, that it was a process that was always being carried out, that every five years some assessment of the Agency was made so that men could discern the scope and weaknesses and what had to be done. But it's not like that. I sometimes feel that when we're on a budget board, we don't have a basis to determine if an institution gets too much or too little or whatever it is. We can refer to reports made by Government Accounting, which are, however, more frequently taken than is the claim that an institution is simply underpriests to carry out its legal tasks, including the case of the district attorney. This was also shown in the high school report. I don't remember what they said, but it was simply said: The schools need more money. There will be no more cuts. It will be interesting to see what comes out of this rancor from the Land Hospital, and hopefully the discussion of the hospital will be more objective.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u321	A respectable president. I have to admit, I feel very special when I'm feeling bad. Opponents respond to others'motives. ... anti-enemies. The idea is to communicate here. They often complain that we do not participate in the discussion. We take part in the discussion and give all the talks, but naturally we have no time when the government's opposers always respond to one another themselves. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. I used to think that much was good in speech. A senator I would have liked to have a word with her about. But I felt that it was, because I know that it is the bill on public financial matters, not quite in harmony with its content, especially when she spoke about the Land Hospital. It's totally special and it's been, anyway, if we compare ourselves with countries we want to compare with, that humans get over the budget. The health system is more complex than just going to the hospital, as important as it is. I don't quite understand why she talks like it's perfectly certain that any institution, no matter who she is, works out of the budget. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u322	A respectable president. I realize this is a short time. I'm ready to have a conversation. A senator at any time on the Generals' march on the various matters. In terms of what I was talking about with the Land Hospital, I was just criticizing a minister for not following it after the National Hospital stays within the budget. I experience it this time of the third year that a minister puts money in the Land Hospital, which he really knows is too small. I haven't seen him take any action due to the land hospital sliding. I think the hospital and the land hospital are particularly more complex organizations than many others. I just agree with what. A senator who, of course, has agencies to stay within the budget. If they do not, the minister must respond and simply say, "You must stop this." Now you've stopped this operation. You don't welcome people older than this. You just sent the old folks out in the rain. There must be some operations. Either place a realistic budget for the Agency, it must be, or cut to make the budget realistic. [[The president calls.]] What's the situation with Land Hospital? After in fact, he oversteps the budget repeatedly after making up a business hall, which was fine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u323	A respectable president. I'm not going to go over the numbers. We can only do so in a calm manner. It is such an increase in health care after a large time of surgery. If they believe that they need to start dismissing them, they will not resist any opinion. It makes me feel irresponsible to speak in that way. However, I feel that I too, and I would have liked to communicate better with him. A member of the body, like hers, spoke a lot about the museum but also about the faults of the museum members and what the arrangement is now. It's totally unofficial. It's not benefitable, it's handless. We may, for example, stop listening to our rural society. We get them in, they want to come in and point out a few things. Hv. A senator pointed to a talk in advance at David's house and some items that are not truthful and suggests the third sector, which has truly been left out, but it cannot be either released and held. It is not possible to say that more of the legal committees are completely impossible and then do exactly what they do. It doesn't make sense. We need to rethink this system. We need to do it right after next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u324	A respectable president. That's exactly what I had in mind for what I was doing. paritaprevir The Katrín Jacobs Jakobsdóttir, since I asked her about what it was like for the council members in the area where the officials really had the tail and the hail, and we would have comments on what was going on there. As she pointed out, e.g. Imagine that there are some professional committees who are responsible for assigning and rooting. It would be as open and beneficial as possible. It matters. There was a administrative law about that. There is no perfect way, but what we must try to do is to ensure equality. We do not ensure equal control by being on a budget and sharing in it, even on our own terms. We won't.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u325	Mr. President. I'd like to speak to a crew at what time. A senator. It has been criticized that the distribution of council workers is not well enough. People were unhappy about the past, and the arrangement could be criticized when the committees were in their arms distributing from these museums. Yet, there were certain committees of knowledge, and members of Congress may have been no more malicious than officials. Watch your step. A senator imagines that this role, which has been introduced into the Ministry, is being distributed from museum teams by application, went to the national community itself, the hangia decided to be put into it, and that the national body takes the task of working by means of the collection teams by application?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u326	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I think it's best if we go to the national part of the network and are distributed there; and the cultural agreements as well. On the other hand, while we have a lot of cultural institutions here in Reykjavík and in the capital area of the budget, it may be a bit complicated. For example, there are plenty of museums on budgets that make money secure each year. But then you can ask yourself, " Is my country's cultural contracts justified? ' Then the money goes in and into these museums while museums in the capital area get just their contributions. I'd like, when we talk about museums, to be preconceived in the Ministry of Education, which turns to museums and mansions so that no one is left out. And, of course, there is a requirement for all of us, and keeping this in the budget should be a professional supervision for the well - being of the money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u327	Mr. President. Yeah, I agree that this needs a reexamination. It has come to the fore that many small but significant tasks for their territory have fallen between ships and docks. We need to reach out to these same projects, that they do not completely fit in with these changes, even though we want to keep them professionally and that there is careful action and that they follow clear processes. I just want to come in for some child support and interest improvements. This bill does not include the price of climate development. We know in the budget that at that time 600 million went back to the state fund of child development because the ceilings were not raised, and 200 million were growing. It was then said that during the increase in food taxes, there should be counter measures, some 1.4 billion, but these groups, children's families, those who put roofs over their heads, are always left behind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u328	A respectable president. I think if I were to prioritize the money right now, I'd put it in child support rather than in interest of interest. They go to people who, in many cases, have better housing than renters, whom we do not do well enough. Well, about the child's settlements, I don't think people have a salary at all. They start to get hurt, I think, at 200 yards. K. pay. I would very much like to look at systems such as Denmark, and as has been pointed out in fact by the welfare department, I think, to have child insurance, and not even business-related. I also think we need to be careful not to take the income ties to extremes. I'd like kids to get proper baby benefits. We are not doing our job when it comes to children's families in Iceland. No doubt that is why very many families move to the northern countries. We'll lose them for that. Not necessarily because there are opportunities here, but because they are left out. It's hard to study with children or be getting a roof over Iceland's head. I know it for myself, I went and learned in Denmark. I just couldn't have done it here in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u329	President. I thank the senator for his speech. I've noticed in the matter what. She is deeply concerned about good administrative matters. I've heard what. The senator repeatedly wondered about the tactics taking place here. I have to admit that when I first came here at this workplace, I experienced a bit of shock, especially because of the strange museums and these devices and became very happy to see that they had been taken out and put into all professional but implacable processes. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether she knows why this has suddenly returned to the council and to the committee. Hv. A senator may be able to explain to me what has really happened. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u330	A respectable president. It really happened last year. It was the first time we received the adjustments that we saw that they were reaching out to a team that we thought was inside the plots. That's where all the pots are taught. They said that the third sector had been forgotten, and we can still agree that the system was not necessarily perfect. But now we're taking it back and going to the old soup instead of developing and trying to find ways to improve the system we had come up with. What happens now is that there's only more people involved in the budget. It's just not good. Of course, we'll end up talking here about the small amounts. But they still do, and they say so much. I understand it's a temptation to have this power, but we must somehow restrain ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u331	President. Thanks for the answer. My party and I were very critical of this arrangement during the last term because it offers a certain type of corruption, sometimes invisible corruption, but often very visible. It is often said to be abused or abused in the past, especially by members of the council in the country. There was a lot of talk when I came here and, in fact, didn't have any experience or basis in this regard, but you saw how money was arranged. I'd like to ask you what. A senator if she thinks it's a comeback. Is it not beneficial to have more transparency around these problems? And if that's what it's supposed to be, then what do you think? A senator benefits that committee meetings that specifically discuss museum members are kept in the hearing and even broadcast?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u332	A respectable president. It is true that, of course, a link may be important. There is no need for corruption, as it is called. But I myself remember ever messing around with some money, and there was someone who said to me, "Don't you know somebody on a budget?" Why don't you call someone on the budget? Of course we don't want it to be that way. I don't already know if this applies more to what goes ashore. Yeah, maybe. However, this brings us into disrepute and makes us suspect a ball of opportunity because we have a large team that may travel to the capital area, for example, in cultural languages. This makes it difficult for us, who are trying to fight for fair financial contributions to the country. I don't experience it so that the country is overcrowded by the funds that go there, so this doesn't help. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u333	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a fine speech. Among other things, it was the topic of the Kingdom News. Governments all around us are in great financial trouble and have had to be cut down, and so is the Kingdom News. It's at the base. A senator to understand that she had no objection to making changes in the affairs of the State Radio so that something would be cut down. I would like to ask, " What exactly does she have in mind? ' It was a bit foggy when it hit the wind. A senator reviewed what she really wanted, so I would like to hear where that cut would take place and whether the cuts would be in harmony with the future's policy on State TV.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u334	A respectable president. I don't necessarily speak for any cuts on the VR. I'm just saying that the function can be better defined. If people are now going to lower the budget for RUV, I feel that it is a government or a government. A minister of education to tell what will happen to them. Who else is to make that decision? However, I also say that there is nothing in stone that RUS should be what it has always been. There's a discussion I think we should take here at the Senate Hall. We're supposed to talk about RUV and how we want it to be. I'd like to have a powerful government radio, but I'm not saying that there's a need to be ten news, and what do I know? It may well be possible to save. I don't know anything about radio or television. It's just a discussion we take here. I think it's a little bit foolish to be cutting down, but I haven't decided what kind of agency we want to have. Then you get the feeling that it's actually supposed to start slowly and biting off because the Agency is the opposite of some of the interests here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u335	A respectable president. I am disappointed by the fact that the Council of Hearts for the future does not have a clearer policy on the subject of the Kingdom News, which is constantly in the conference debate. For example, it's low. A senator justified keeping Channel 2 outside? Is the Kingdom Radio and TV justified? Is it justified that the State Radio is at a commercial market in competition with private stations? These are burning questions. There must be some viewpoints on the Speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u336	A respectable president. As I said in my talk, I feel very important, for example, that RUS has a powerful news department, a news report, a documentary, and something costly to do but important. I feel that RUSH should be a part of a program but may also be purchased by others. I don't think it's my job to set up one of the Bjart's wishes for the future and what RROV would be like then. It's just a discussion that needs to be taken care of. I've never worked on RUSB, and I don't know what will happen if we take the foreign material off the program. Don't we need to fill it with something else? Is it more expensive? Channel 2 is behind us. I think it's all a question we should ask ourselves, but then we'll go to the Hall. Let's not be afraid of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u337	A respectable president. Now it's better than it has to be said that setting was not the norm. The prime minister at the meeting earlier today, and perhaps hoping that it has been thoroughly demonstrated that the budget has never been exhausted. and malicious errors on top of everything else revealed in the bill as it stands now. As a result, I would like to make my proposal to a respected president to interrupt this discussion and redirect the bill to be treated on a budget committee so that it can be properly prepared back to 2nd. I'd also like to take this opportunity because it's now 12th hour and it's time for the President to decide how long he intends to continue the discussion, he will not take my advice and interrupt it now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u338	President. I also wanted to know how long a meeting was going to last. I don't care how long he's gonna be, I just wanted to get some information about how long the President intends to hold a meeting tonight. We've been discussing, the smaller council members, that the talks being delivered after midnight will be moved back tomorrow so that the public will have the opportunity to follow up at the General Assembly. I don't think there are very few people watching the General Channel after midnight. At the same time, I want to say something. A member of Congress and members of the United Nations Parliament, Helgi Hjörvar, say that it would be a good way to give a financial committee a chance to skim off any of the ill-tempered changes made on the financial bill at the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u339	A respectable president. I wasn't here already the highest. The prime minister decided to take a spin today, but I did not understand his message from him differently, so he felt that the suggestions we were here to offer were something special for us. We have fought to see that older citizens and poor people get as much as those in the labor market. There's nothing here to offer us. We're here fighting for this group. And already the highest. The prime minister speaks in the way he did today when he really answers these people and says that they will not receive anything. I can't believe it until I figure out that people are actually going to go to Christmas and leave older civilians when it comes to dressers this year. On the front of the board of directors, we will give the members of the administrations a second chance to support a suggestion that these groups receive reprisals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u340	Mr. President. There were a lot of people thinking after the ultimate riot. Today, prime minister reflected extraordinary inadequacies. You think of the situation in the administration home when you see such a riot in the hands of the prime minister himself, but we have been observing the last few days very difficult conditions with many members of the government, and in fact, there is a very intense tension between the members of the board on large issues, such as the discussion of the elderly and the desperate, of the Land Hospital and the State Radio. The subject may be the most clear example in these days when it is said that there is no such thing as doing something about it, and it does come to the highest degree. A minister of education in the 7 News of the Kingdom Radio tonight who claims to have the proposal and is still very hopeful. In view of this, I'd like to guess what's been discussed here earlier that the management side of the government will, of course, offer a new proposal for bandorm, and on the side of a budget bill that will be in accordance with the proposal as the highest level. A minister has preached and has not yet published, so he can then support her here at the Hall of Congress and other government members who love the Kingdom News. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u341	President. It has been observed during the discussion that a budget committee has not been able to return the bill to 2nd. as much as I'd like. It is not the sole fault of a financial committee. It has been found that even in the Ministry of finance, it has been forgotten to expect a teacher's pay raise. A financial committee might have found out that it was missing. Then a very pleasant contract was made for a weekend for more money to the rural society for the affairs of the disabled. I can't understand it any other way, so next year the budget will have something to do with it. Now, as suggested, we do not need to refer the case to the committee again so that we can have a complete bill when we take the final talk, the final day of the 2nd issue. which will probably be tomorrow, or what? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u342	A respectable president. I have heard members of the government stand coming up here, stating that the talks given after midnight will be reassigned the following day. It's all very good to say. I gave my first and only talk about the budget after midnight. [[Up front.]] Yes, I did. I haven't seen any reason to reinvigorate her the following day, even though I thought it was a good talk. Thanks to my modesty, I have not brought her back. [[Move it back.]] We now made Iceland record at the sixth hour here today. I congratulate members of Congress on that milestone. [[Just in front of you: Thank you.]] We discussed earlier whether world record was not near, and the most familiar members of the council felt that it was very short. I encourage it to the highest. A president to continue this meeting so that we can be sure that we can get a global record at least tonight or early in the morning. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u343	Mr. President. What's wrong with this budget talk is that we are making decisions about financial matters that should be done in a completely different way. That's because of the highest. Ministers have not submitted the matter to be asked. I studied a few examples in my speech, I could have had them a lot more if I had wanted, an example of a transportation plan, a concierge proposal for a state-of-the-art celebration, a development teamwork plan, and a date-date decision about high school. [[Up front.]] All of this is done through the budget. Why? Because it's the highest. Ministers do not bring either the matter or the situation is stuck. The radio was mentioned earlier. We've seen some controversies that have since been raised, and it's just been handed over through the budget. Mr. President. I make very serious comments to this practice. I don't know. I feel like the Generals are putting up with this kind of work. We're getting things discussed till night to make sure that no one out there notices what the work is really like at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. The President and the Continental Department are unable to get away with this inconsistency. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we can keep talking here, but there is no stopping it. The prime committee should review this case with government stewards who do not bring the situation in here. [[The president calls.]] [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u344	President. I have to say something. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, who made the right comment to the chairman of the president's board. Of course, it is very serious how much conflict exists between the ruling parties and those there. It has meant that very important matters have not been able to find their way in here, so we have very large holes and gaps in the budget and in the soup of promise that were the basis for collective agreements. It's amazing to me that the members of the major body couldn't figure out how serious the situation is. At the same time, I think it's the most amazing reality thing that broke out of the mouth. Prime Minister today. It was amazing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u345	Mr. President. It seems that management is going to make this focus on time. It's okay. Guinness's Book of World Records, if that's what the government prefers. I mean it when I say they can't hide behind whether we talk for 50 hours or 100 hours. What's out there waiting for us are things in society, including things. About seniors and disability. I am convinced that they are on our side, encouraging us to speak for a thousand hours if it is to be replaced, as well as the presidents of the Land Hospital and other institutions that have been massed here, who have visited the legal committee and repeatedly said that this is not going to work. We can't run the community this way, that's for sure. Still, the board members are going to try to turn this into a timelines. They think that they can cover their own bullshit and poor preparation in this way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Honorable President, that's not an offer. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u346	V.E.G. President. I'm about to come up here for a meeting board to ask for it at the highest level. President to cancel a meeting and postpone a discussion on this matter. This was shown in the case of the great champion, the highest. Prime Minister, here today he wanted to give us the stage. He seemed to think that the star competition is likely to counteract divisions and disunity. I'd like to encourage the highest. A president to take control of the council, to end meetings here, and to work on people talking to each other. We on the front of the board are four groups, all of which stand together to 33 complete changes made in terms of the budget. The fire of our minds enables us to speak here into the infinite, for much is at stake. I think the highest. The president should have the highest. The prime minister to see that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u347	Mr. President. It may well be that some of the world's world record in 2nd. the budget, but the government will never be able to pay the world record of ruling the state as badly as this government does. No one beats that world record. I'm sure it'll be the world record of this government, the bad government of this country. We here are fighting for something, not for ourselves, but for groups such as the elderly and the desperate who rely on us to represent them. There was no great leadership at the highest level. When the prime minister came in on a speaker's chair, he knocked doors and said that there was nothing to deal with. I'm afraid this is the situation we live in. You are concerned that unless someone in the management team, perhaps one of the independents, is aware of the situation. Prime Minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u348	A respectable president. If I'm not mistaken, this is the seventh night we enter with a discussion on the budget. The political part seems to believe that the subject is about number and duration. We received that shocking message in the most arrogant reply. Prime Minister today that there is nothing to negotiate, nothing to discuss. We're talking about the planning of the estate. We are talking about a natural requirement for correction for older ones and micropunchers. In fact, it is quite remarkable that the prime minister believes that there is no need to revise anything or to give ear to what is discussed in this regard. This may be explained by the absence of a prime minister when we voted for the changes in the administrative memory to correct the interests of the elderly and desperate ones back in time. [[The president calls.]] However, he left it to his foot soldiers to say no with his own voice to the shameful suggestion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u349	A respectable president. I couldn't help noticing why. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson was quite upset that his speech did not count as worth enough to carry her during the day. [[Up front.]] I'll be happy to take it up at the council to see if any of us can't reexamine his speech here tomorrow in daylight so that he can be done as high as anyone else's. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I've got to figure out what to do with my record. A member of the Parliament that this discussion is far from a lengthy discussion at the National Assembly of Iceland. It's strange for prominent historians to think that a little storm in a glass of water in Iceland is always a world record. The longest session in the U.S. Senate is 27 hours. This discussion is combined with all members of the International Parliament at the International Assembly of the Icelanders, as is the case with two talks during that fine assembly. [["Except what?"]] I think that's what we're talking about. A senator may wait several days and even weeks before a special world record will be made in this regard. It would be easier if the case were to be referred only to the legal committee and left for the night. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I still remember when the President plans to complete a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u350	A respectable president. World record, Iceland record, historical record, at least. I'm beginning to worry a little bit about this promotion of candidates and wondering if there's any need to get some pressure on it. But let us just consider that it has certainly happened over the years that people have talked about the budget, and that is normal. It's a big date document. But I remember that in 2012 this record fell once when the then government opposition decided to take possession of the budget. So let us think a little bit about what it was like and review what it was like. It was to halt the progress of the Constitution bill, our new constitution of Icelanders. That was the cause at the time. This time, we are here fighting for the benefit of older citizens and disability. We're fighting for more money to the Land Hospital, we're fighting for the scholarship of the education system, we're fighting for the fundamental elements of our community. [[The president calls.]] If there's any record of speeches at the same time, I'm not ashamed of that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u351	President. It was during springtime that a decision at the end of the council went unsatisfactory. That was because the Independence Party came to the table and ended our contracts. So ten days passed, where the Specialist Party refused to speak to any man and was in great trouble with its home field when it was finally possible to stop the assembly. I wondered if the great rage of the prime minister today and the intense mismanagement was really about having nothing to do with the government. Rather, he was just talking to the Independence Party and telling him that there will be no agreement on the Government Radio, that there will be no money in the Land Hospital, that nothing will be done for the desperate and the elderly. It was the highest. The prime minister to speak to the Independence Party, to his team of cooperaters? Because there must be some - or hopefully there's some political explanation for the inadequacy that happened to the minister today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u352	Mr. President. It's kind of surprising that the members of the administrations I've heard in this discussion are primarily about the length of the discussion. I'm a little surprised that because there have been some important points here, not only the adjustment proposal we had for the discussion, but also a work song that I would have thought members, no matter where they stand or sit, should not be particularly pleased with. I wondered, " Is there no answer in this financial discussion to whether there is no reason for us to take the time to do so tomorrow, e.g. The Senate's work is done to help us determine whether or not. Congress officials find it acceptable to have no transport strategy, whether or not they feel acceptable to have a plan for development cooperation, whether they feel acceptable to handle such a matter in financial terms, whether they have nothing to say, but they feel that these discussions take a lot of time. I'm a little surprised at this work. I would have thought that the members of the administrative body would be interested in the success of the ministers assigned to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u353	President. It is clear that the statement by the prime minister here today was an absolute record. It seems as if he didn't understand it and would not bring it into his head that we were speaking for the ideal elderly and the desperate. We want them to get the same compensation as the rest of the country. We want them to make the same compensation next year as the rest of the country have agreed. We want the land hospital to get the money he needs so that it can be properly run and the facilities can be arranged to make it decent for people. We want the Government Radio to get money and to stand on top of it. A minister of education in his struggle to get the money that the State Radio needs in the least way so as to run the role it is created under law. [[The president calls.]] This is what we want, and I'd appreciate it if the president came to Prime Minister just so he can understand what we're talking about here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u354	A respectable president. Many of us have been amazed by the words of the highest degree. Prime Minister, but I now want to direct my words to the president and ask what might be the situation when the president gave up the program at the council. Can the president tell you if he is working on getting people to talk? He's got a plan upstairs, or he's just happy with the fart contest as the great champion, the highest. Prime Minister, have you begun here? And has the highest. Prime Minister in charge of the council? For the perfect loss of control at the highest. I hope the government will protect Mr. President from putting the highest power in the U.S. Congress. Prime Minister of the bridge. I challenge the President of the Generals to take control of the Generals program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u355	A respectable president. I just want to admit that I first realized now that I needed a license. Group president of the United States to give talks at the General Assembly, and he informed earlier that he might be ready to give me talks here during the day. [[Up front.]] But I will be very careful from now on to get permission from the what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar to deliver talks during the day, as do other members of Congress, so it's good to know. With the interest of the elderly and the desperate - this discussion is getting pretty sour. They had a 3% increase last year, are receiving 9.7% at this time of the year, and are reaching an 8% - year - old 2016-2017 season. Besides, I've repeated it, along with other members of my party, that they will reach 300 yous. K. Minimum pay in a very short time. What are we fighting here? These are the best compensations these groups have received for decades. [["No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.]] To argue that this is being done with the elderly and the desperate is only madness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u356	V.E.G. President. I can assure you what. paritaprevir The Katrín of Jakobsdóttir says I'm not worried about the length of the discussion. I don't care if we're down here on Iceland record, world record, European record, or whatever it's called. In fact, I'll even hang a medal for review of the government position. But what surprises me is why not use the time to discuss the budget. The requirement that there is always a need for daylight is completely incomprehensible to me. There are plenty of people who work in the dark, and we can work in darkness like everyone else. So let's just keep up the discussion. I don't make any comments on the length, just use the time and talk it through.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u357	A respectable president. Instead of making people talk here into darkness and into the night over empty halls and sleeping listeners, it would now be wise to pause and give in. The budget to which she obviously needs to cross her numbers and data and take some of this discussion about the interest of older people and microlooms, on the budget to the land hospital, on transportation, on the construction of tourist facilities, on the parish plans and on state radios, on all the deliberations that have taken place in this financial bill? There would be good reason for you to give up. The budget is the space that she obviously needs to review and take care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u358	V.E.G. President. I don't have much time for Mr President's conference board to check, but I believe that he was here earlier today giving one of the best discourses that has long been given at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. On the other hand, I believe it would be a favor for action and it might take a little heat from this discussion if the highest level of it is. The president made no mistake about how long he intends to continue this meeting. This has been observed in various cases. Councilmen how they prefer to do their jobs. For example, I was surprised at what I heard. paritaprevir Beggar Níelsson's son spoke of the best way to do his work in the dark. I have to say that certain aspects of this bill that we're discussing here would be listed as dark works. I'm not going to get excited over a speech. Prime Minister here earlier today, I don't think it helped, but it's the smell of what's paving this council, the reverse development that crystals in a single word; Ministerdom.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u359	A respectable president. I think it's normal to continue the discussion in daylight. I don't look like a board of directors riding a fat horse off of it, and I'm a little surprised at what it says. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson's son here. There is good reason for the legal committee to review the matter again. We heard the highest. The secretary of finance ends up in the discussion today and makes a surprising statement about the reasons for the decision to let the disability and the elderly stay behind in dresser work. So I think it would be in everyone's best interest not to extend this discussion tonight but to continue tomorrow and work this case. Of course, there is good reason to be honest, as the discussion has developed. In view of the fact that most of the legal committees are being neglected and the highest levels of misunderstanding are misunderstandings. A prime minister on the basis of the issue is full of reason to accept it back into the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u360	Mr. President. You ask yourself, " Is the work of this government the best way to be conquered in the dark? ' Words could be understood. paritaprevir So Brurt the Brynjar of Níelsson. However, the management style of these young men who lead a government in Iceland is not evidence that men have ever had to negotiate through some language. Clearly, humans have never had a complete sense of identity, nor have they ever had to communicate things or compare different viewpoints with the outcome of events. Of course, it is not good to have such leadership in control that they do not know how to communicate because it is not instinctive and has never been put to the test. Today, the Senate is facing a crisis with an incompetent government, and we continue to speak into the darkness of deaf ears. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u361	Mr. President. My good friend and companion quoted today to State and logic by Páll Skúlason on the basis of recommendation and the conduct of prime minister. It says, by permission of the president: It is not the fact that a certain class or group of people go out of the way and do their will without the support of a number of people in the community. It is good to keep this in mind, since the government groups seem to think that, as they have a good share, they can perform violence here as they do here. They force a specific provision, or conduct, into the budget that cannot go on as it happens. The stems can't run with this contribution. Older civilians and disability are left behind. What the hell is that? paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson is going with you? [[The president calls.]] They don't eat percentages, that's just the way it is, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u362	The president would like to suggest that earlier today a vote for the duration of a meeting agreed that a meeting was held during the night and that the president would honor that vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u363	Mr. President. In celebration of the statement, the highest. Just before this afternoon, I want to reiterate what I told them. I told him I would support this meeting, since it was my understanding that it wasn't past the clock. 12th But all power is the highest. I give a president whatever he wants, I'll bend under. On the other hand, I believe the council should now be seriously thinking. I mentioned earlier that the situation we are in is a direct result of the reverse development that has taken place over the last three years or since the reinstatement of a new government, revealed in the application of all too much power. It was one of the main findings of the Allied Research Committee that it had happened because the Commission seized too much power from the legislature. We succeeded in turning it around considerably. The Congress was much more independent of the later resurrection years than it is now that I believe we need to examine these developments deeply. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Here's the government situation with 33 motions, and they won't be listened to for one.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u364	A respectable president. I simply want to correct the facts here on the part of a respectable president. There hasn't been a vote this morning at a night meeting. Greidd has been elected to be authorized for an evening meeting, and this does not involve consent to a meeting of the night. It is the President's own decision how long it will continue into the night. In such a situation, there are no special material reasons for this and the highest. Ministers and ministers. The members of the administrative body have become increasingly and less confused by the confusion of facts in this discussion all of them are likely to be willing not to be unstable and continue into the night but to leave this night for a night and end this discussion here at midnight. Therefore, my encouragement to a respectable president is that he meditates on his well - known wisdom.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-12-14-54.u365	A respectable president. Prior to last elections, there was much discussion in the leading of the election for a foreign hedge fund, sometimes known as vulture funds, and it would normally be a high priority of all categories in renovating with them in connection with the fall of the banks to be favorable to the Icelandic nation. One group, however, may have had the longest in wanting to take very hard action in those foreign sears or vultures, and this group was given some authority to do so. But where do we stand now as we discuss budgeting for 2016? We stand there that these so - called vulture funds are the happiest vulture funds in the world. The agreements have not been made that Iceland has not been taken out of its markets, but it has been made up of them, and thus both Iceland has not been enough to play after the contracts, as well as the assessment of the people of the foreign markets, that the contracts are so much favorable to them that they are flocking to Iceland and attending the demand conference that has rarely been observed at such meetings, i.e. more than 90% of attendance for thousands and again thousands of demands worldwide. When asked if they would accept the contract that Sigmundur, Davíð Gunnlaugsson, invited them to say more than 99% yes. I don't even think in Russia, they can't see other approved ones anymore. Why is it so important that this arrangement for broiling isn't enough for Iceland? Of course, it would be because each member of the council would be happy if we had received what we needed, but obviously we did not have what we needed, because here comes one member after another, declaring that the right and the duty of improving the interest of the elderly, but there is not just money to go far enough, and that right and obligation is to finance the Land Hospital so that he can carry out the tasks he has to do and before the hospital has clearly defined the need for him, but the government groups do not say that he has the money to care for them. What prevents them from being the good people, such as the bad. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson, a great victim of recent discussions, is a lack of money. How could it be that the greater part of the government reached an acceptable contract with foreign demands but not after the contracts neither to raise the money of the elderly nor to leave the money at the same time as the rest of us, or to run the Land Hospital, that we are not going to talk about the Government Radio or any of these things? This, of course, provides valid reason for a financial committee to review this situation very carefully, and especially if this is to be the case with the 3rd. Significant changes in the budget are linked to these stability contracts. It is new if such dramatic changes are to occur between the 2nd and 3rd. but this case needs to be discussed. Had it not been over and over again that the decision to do the demands was so that it would be enough to play in Icelandic society after the contract? Is it so only a few months after the contracting of the foreign claimors has come into trouble, then the minister of finance as he was this morning is standing here and saying that the remainder of the state funds of the existing budget is not as great as expected in a long-term program proposed by the same government in the summer? How does it hang together? On springtime, an important bill was adopted at the council for the collection of income funds that received the backing of members of all classes. They agreed to lay down a stable tax, agreed on the legality of that operation, and all in one opinion that the tax paid would be sufficient to process the solutions that lay ahead. Then, in the fall of the government, it's all right, it doesn't have to be taken from the foreign emissaries because the government is in a position to give them a discount, negotiate with them for a special discount, and that they're going out of currency with their money before a few Icelanders get released from currency heads, they leave us in this country but leave us with the money. Why would that be okay? Yes, because our fruitage for a long time would be guaranteed. On that night, you must doubt that it was the right thing to do in the administrative part. If we were sustained in these contracts for a long time, and we could afford to give these huge discounts to the foreign insistents, how does the government deal with the budget with great and good ills while claiming to have no money for them? Is it possible for some of the directors here to explain how these things hang together? Why does he say why? paritaprevir Though Níelsson's armour would like to do better for the hospital, would he like to do better for the elderly and the poor, yet later next year he began giving special pay to the foreign demands of the tax collectors, which would otherwise have given the state funds far more money? Wants to play. Brynjar Níelsson's armor explains how this is so, why we could afford to give a discount from the stable tax, but we can't afford the basic operation of the Land Hospital, just the calculations from year to year? No, this is a major reason to question the government's plans for this matter. It must be even more worried about us in the coming years, for this is just what we see a few months after they thought everything was happening here. Have they not assumed, then, that there might be some tragedy here? What if the gas prices go up? If criminals aren't enough? If fishing prices in the best - paying markets or any of the many external conditions that we cannot control are not practical for us next year? Will we then be in even greater trouble? Was there no table for a price when the people decided to give a discount to the demands? No, it seems conclusive to me that the government itself has risked the budget for the next year into the problems the bill finds that the government had agreed to the General for a tax system that would have done so much better than the suggestions here on the table. They would simply have enabled humans to do what has to be done. Therefore, the head of the management force, of course, explained why this situation has come up just a few months after they claimed to have the palm of their hands and Iceland's interests guarantee of a long future, that they do not have money for the most basic needs of the Land Hospital and of course blundering for tens of thousands of Icelanders, elderly people, and desperate ones.
