ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u1	The program suggested at a meeting yesterday from Jón Þór Ólafsson, etc. is called again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u2	The President plans that the votes will be after the end of the council conferences, this afternoon. 15th
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u3	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Council of Birts the Björt of Ólafsdóttir Ólafurdótttir, why. 6th. Smoke. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Therefore, it is requested that Eldar's Ástþórsson, who is second on the Bjart's list in the district. 1 strategist on a list of the districts has announced ahead of time. At the request of the president, the national government has assembled and issued a ballot for Eldar, the son of Ástþórsson. At the same time, a board of administrations and monitoring has been arranged to discuss the stock market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u4	V.E.G. President. As mentioned in the case of the highest. The President has issued a district election letter for El Eldar Ástþórsson, 2nd Prefect of Birt's Future in Smoke. n. As also noted in the case of the Senate's president, a board of directors and board of directors has assembled to review the ballot letter and make no comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u5	As noted in the case of the chairman of the Commission and the Commission committee, the Commission recommends a unanimousity with the approval of the convention and considered it acceptable without a vote if no protests are moved. Eldar Ástþórsson Þorsson, 6th. Smoke. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u6	Eldar Ástþórsson has signed his pledge to the Constitution and is welcomed to serve at the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u7	A respectable president. There is reason to rejoice that if there is a problem with solving collective labour market agreements, this will draw attention to the complete failure of the public market interviews. There is reason to use this opportunity to encourage the government to address the uncontaminated issues in following the example of the labour market and solving the present debate. It is especially happy that you are being won toward 300 o'clock. K. The requirement and specific baloney for the lowest paid. This, of course, is in a crying inconsistencies with the highest statement. Secretary of finance that this has been overcrowded, reflecting the wide will that is in particular to improve the minimum wage. However, as the lowest paid people in the labour market are getting a sludge, it is inevitable that at the General Assembly, we will turn to tens of thousands of pensioners in the country, for the pensioners are in large quantities those living at the lowest markets in the country. When people in a general labour market have shown great interest in raising especially the highest wage in the currently successful contracts, it is a challenge for us to do the same for those in pension, disability, and social security, and to have their contribution entirely under this institution here, the General Assembly. The general body of the labour market is not to be left behind when it comes to the worst - paying business ventures in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u8	V.E.G. President. Once again, we learn that the social interpretation fund is empty. It's going to be years from year to year when these funds are empty. Heiðdís Dögg Eiríksdóttir, president of the Deaf, wrote this morning an article in the visi.is, and I want to quote it, with permission of presidents: ▪ The authorities tie our hands, and we cannot care for our duties as landlords, parents, taxpayers, relatives, and so forth. This year the Ministry of Education and Culture decided to divide the budget into four quarters. I don't know what their math skills are, it's very simple, it doesn't last much longer than the rest of the years. Our roles and responsibilities will not diminish if they are divided into four quarters. V.E.G. President. This may be referred to as a complete violation of the fundamental principle on which the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointments is based and has the primary objective that disabled persons can take full and active part in the community without separating and ensuring access without discrimination to the other and this service to the deaf who are entitled to, but will miss out if they do not have this interpretation. The State of England must show that it means something when it says that the United Nations will validate the rights of disabled people and ensures the minimal rights he commands. Money needed in this fund is complicating to the great interests and rights of those in need of service and to the importance of human rights as the United Nations Convention on Human Rights. V.E.G. President. I challenge the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture to make things right and to add money to this fund. We can't invite these people not to have an interpretation service for a month, that's totally incorruption.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u9	To shame.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u10	Mr. President. Because this team's name is The House of Congress, I'm going to begin to rejoice over the program of this meeting compared with what has been over the past few weeks, with a much more favorable response to the fact that a number of cases have arrived on a program that the Parliament can face. Of course, I'm at the top of my mind, as well as other employment standards and nurse strikes that struck at this hour of the night. This makes it clear that there is becoming a more serious situation in our health system than is likely to have existed for decades. I was listening to the executive staff of nursing at a Land hospital on the radio this morning and a man is shocked. Although everything is tried within this narrow framework to ensure safety, this situation will be added to the five, six - week - old radiologists, biologists, and others who have been severely paralyzed by hospital operations, adding back to the effects of the medical strike that the health system had not worked out. So there are very long and hard waiting lists that are hard to see when they will be working on. The Kingdom is the negotiater of these groups. They cannot approach matters in a way that is not spoken to them, nor would it be possible to negotiate with them on an independent basis on the basis of the contract rights they have to form in some way or at least. address their requirements, special requirements for education in their jobs. A statement of the highest magnitude. Of course, a prime minister has said no disrespect to the independent agreement, and I am surprised that the community has not caused more civil storms: There will be no talk with these people; there will be no agreement with them until it is clear how the public labour market is working, and then it adds to accusations that the head of the labor movement is going on even at the expense of the interests of its candidates. [[The president calls.]] That's not lucky, is it, when the government's point of view puts it into the bag to solve matters? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u11	A respectable president. When disputes occur, as at the high Council of the past few weeks, I believe that members of Congress tend to forget that the people of the community are not at the General Assembly. It is likely to be. Allied council members isolate themselves from what is going on in the community. To help us cope with this, I suggest again and again that as we look ahead, we think about democracy, we think of methods that enable the public to take control when they want it or some particular part of the public so that we at the high council can never forget the nation and what we do for the people. There are a number of factors that can be considered. They are simple and different animals, but all are simple, and all are cheap. National pay is not expensive. It's not complicated. It is easy to establish here a stronger and better, civilized democracy that allows the public to decide for themselves how the priorities of the High Generalis should be, at least in principle. Shares like those that have recently been here should not occur. Never should we view these disputes as a natural part of the way the Council operates. Well, I don't think anybody's gonna do that for a long time. As we look ahead, we are not to blame one another, and when the nation wants to have a choice, we should not act as if it is an automatic defeat by politicians whose views differ. Rather, we are to show respect for the self - determination of all people, whether by individuals or by groups. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u12	A respectable president. We live in a truly acceptable land. A few days ago, DV reported that the European Commission ALMC, formerly Stramur, set aside 3,400 million dollars. K. which the Society paid a favor in grants to key employees and directors. On average, there are 100 million dollars in pay. K. on each employee. Some will have more, others less. DV, according to AMC, 20 to 30 employees are expecting such requests. This includes foreigners and foreigners. Today, the same media reported that dozens of current and former council workers are expecting offers that in some cases will be approved by tens of millions. The total is hundreds of millions. K. Keep in mind that these are not particularly ill - suffering employees, since according to their annual account, they had 1.6 billion. K. average per month. The chain of financial institutions played a major role in the 2008 collapse. Yesterday, a large group of people gathered here outside the U.S. Assembly Hall protesting everything possible, including the U.S. A return to the Iceland we knew just before a crash. A respectable president. Have we learned nothing? Will we really maintain a petitioning system in Icelandic financial life whether the petition is 25%, 50%, or 100%? Do we want a new petition? The answer is no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u13	President. I think I can totally agree with that. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson son that most people don't want their marriage back. But there are so many other factors that make the public feel that we are back in 2007. It is not only a petitioning system in the banks but also a certain mental attitude that exists in the privacy of this workplace. I wanted to make it a subject of rented conditions, and they were very disappointed by what I have seen about this new housing system. House rent compensations - wording is only changed, and according to the news, this will benefit the most from some financial definition. I wanted to challenge the members of the greater part to make sure that the matter is being arranged at the General Assembly before we leave for vacation so that there can be serious comments in the summer so that there can be a reform of the home estate, especially as well as other solutions to Iceland's facilities. It has recently been observed that far too many people do not know their rights. That's something I think it's urgent to take care of is, i.e. how the board doesn't work here. It is all too common for the system to go into some kind of resistance. Instead of recognizing that something has to be fixed, the system says: 'Computer sass no!' "By permission of the President, I beg pardon to use English, but this word has to be turned to Icelandic, the system says no. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Let's fix it, change the attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u14	A respectable president. I'm glad that we are now in the process of contracting a general labour market. I agree with them. Councilmen who have made comments on the government's procedure in other ways in dealing with their own employees are deeply concerned that they do not make the same progress. It is worth it for us, however, to remember that it is not granted when negotiations succeed in securing social peace. We've been here before. By the end of 2013, a contract with a general labour market and with the government, where peace was laid on the labour market, was controlled by the government. Minister's statements, whether that's a statement by the highest degree. Secretary of finance for an equalizing of too much in Iceland, or short of the highest. As an example of a debate in Icelandic politics today, prime minister in front of the labor force, undermines solidarity when it comes to building solidarity around the way. The answer is clear that more is needed. What the government failed, the test it went on after the 2013 contract, was that it failed to bring back to its employees the reductions in public records. She went crazy about bringing a tax change that gave them the lowest remuneration, and that's why you can learn. The process now must involve changing the tax system for those with low income and medium income, providing real solutions to housing after two years of government inactivity and ensuring the nation's maximum resources. It is a fundamental problem today that the nation has no faith that the government is interested in securing the maximum amount of resources in common funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u15	Mr. President. I'd like to mention two things about collective agreements that should be priorities for the government, one of the short-term details and the other long-term issues. The short - term importance is to prioritize money to 90% of the population's will, in a first - grade health system. Impulse control of the health system is not successful, nurses are having a relapse in a strike-out prior to the resolution of the issue. In November, 90% of the population reported in the Capacent Gallup survey that the Piratars had made it possible for them to set priorities for the funds that come from our joint funds in our first-class health systems. The government has to start listening to this. The long-term thing is we need framework on the success of collective agreements. The government promised two years ago, saying in its policy declaration, by permission of a president: The workforce's development and future development will be far more at peace with the partners of the labour market. The government said two years ago in a memo to the labour market party, with permission of a president: As a result of contracts made by the labour market, workers have looked to the future and changed environmental management of collective labour agreements. There is a desire to ensure more discipline and firmness, as is the definition of collective agreements in the states of the North [...]. Good idea. What, then, does ASI say about the matter in his book Buy and Vote? It says that ASI and SA stated that the organization wanted to come to a common level with the government labour market partners and set goals for improved work in the preparation of collective agreements. Almost every year, ASI and SA considered looking for models in neighboring countries that have managed to increase their power with lower inflation. What does SE say about this? Yes, they say that the Norwegian labour market model has ensured economic stability and created a better basis than the Icelandic model. The workforce, the government, and the Council have a collective responsibility to establish and maintain economic stability. [[The president calls.]] Where is this National Model Framework program to achieve the success of collective agreements? [[The president calls.]] The government needs to answer that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u16	A respectable president. First, I'd like to thank the President for a good meeting board and to have taken matters into his own hands and resolved disputes for the moment. I'll take back what I said yesterday or the day before, that we should have the Swedish President sent to this country, but we don't have to do it at the moment. What I'd like to talk to you about is the news that it's now 850 million. K. in the tourism budget for development of tourism infrastructure and 1.3 billion for road construction. It's divided on Facebook and put in news as if it's great and the government is doing great things. Now, it has been in progress for a long time to have a tourist position built and, in fact, 500 billion of the tourist attraction fund. K. on budget 2013. The current government greatly reduced budgets, reaching only 260 million. K. 2014. They had to pick up nearly 400 million. K. on budgets, and today for budgets this year, 150 million were expected, of course, some 850 million are now being attended. K. on budgets. Investment does not finance programs that governments plan. It's a back pocket book. It's a bad idea. I don't understand how people are out all over town shouting to the government, putting money in road traffic, and in the tourist budget, or in construction at tourist places. There's always been a time when this has to be done, and if I remember correctly in the plan of investment that the government threw off the board. May I ask for a good plan, and perhaps more part of it and the highest? Secretary of finance reads the Committee's opinion of the object. I pointed to this in my Committee Department for the budget of 2014 and 2015. It wasn't supposed to surprise anyone. I think it's amazing how this is going to work, and it's amazing to be talking about discipline and responsibilities in government matters when people act like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u17	Mr. President. I'd like to discuss the issues that have been discussed here on what happened outside yesterday and what the people in the East were asking about and demanding. For one thing, it is the authority that the members of the council have here within the house. Where is it, and how should we treat it? The majority are not considered to be good with the power they have, and it was said here that resources are being badly treated, that they needed democratic compensation, that the health system was being crushed, etc. It is people's experience, no matter what we may feel, and it is up to us to do our best to try to fix it. Older civilians and cripples should not have to depose death, many of them, as we stand before them. The balance is still far too high, and we can contribute to it, the state that deals with our professions, which are the most important groups of women, which are in pay struggles. It should not be that our people are afraid of getting sick or getting older or what they are now facing in view of the fact that these are strikes and dismissed. The future somehow looks that way for very many, too many. I'd like to say to the highest. A government and prime minister who would like to change the nation that it is just not. We must then replace the government leaders because they seem to have no ties with their people. Yesterday we were asked if it would be unfairly necessary to keep a promise and follow a law, which is likely to refer to the framework. It was then asked if it would be unfair for a person to receive a minimum wage that should be sufficient for alimony. It was also said that it was unfair that the nation could not benefit from its resources. All of these are the subjects that I think we can agree on, at least we have spoken to them in the memory, and of course we want this to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u18	A respectable president. An untimely nurse's strike began at midnight and affects many people in medical institutions. Some 2,100 nurses have a strike, but some 500 jobs will be on the leave during a strike for the most urgent need. A surgeon, Birgir Jakobsson, has said that nursing procedures on other health - care problems will put patients' health and lives at risk. It is unacceptable, for there are many people who have chosen to care for the life and health of people and who are doing so with great ideals. Sadly, because of the nature of a strike, it often affects people just as much as the work effort focused on, as well as the number of strikes of different professions may have a variable degree of impact on society's mechanism of action. Hence, the strike weapon is used and used successfully. Of course, the sick and needy are to be in the utmost priority when a strike occurs. This results in agreements with a general labour market, and this is a cause of joy, but in strikes, it is so sacrificed and so strongly planned that it will have to give success to those who engage in this struggle. The most important thing is to make sure that you earn the money you earn. It is unthinkable to bring in a large amount of remuneration and then immediately burn up the inflation. Me and the Icelanders know such dressbacks from bitter experience. In order to protect the level of money, the key is that the collective agreements now being made are aimed at maintaining the quality of the economy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u19	A respectable president. I want to do like more senators and thank you to the highest degree. The president for his decision yesterday to cancel the program and to postpone a discussion on a frame plan, and to try to agree on an agreement, as well as on the agenda, that more and less members of the council are fundamentally agreed on that this is to be completed. I think that the wind that reigns at the council now at the beginning of the meeting and that last part of yesterday is a sign that we can and should work together in ways that we have not shown in the past few days. That's what I want to thank you for. A president for that and celebrates his decision. She was bold, but she succeeded, and hopefully she contributes to our being elected every four years during this term, to work out the task that we see, without excitement, and to accuse one another. Besides, I think it's clear to everyone that we are at a turning point regarding the nation's health system. It cannot be concluded that in the working environment of the profession, they are placed into a strike - strike operation and are thus beaten by our healthcare system. There are no acceptable nationalities, and there are ways to expand education and improve the quality of education. As a result, we need to work together, public employees, general market workers, members of the Parliament, and the nation as well as the rest of the nations have done and have boasted about it. So I want to agree with what. þm. Jón Þór Ólafsson, who looks forward to a common campaign in the financial, economic, and strike rights program and our status among civilized nations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u20	Mr. President. It is in the news today that the Organization has agreed to the Passition's request to reevaluate environmental assessments of the village Chets Forest, and I would like to express my joy with that conclusion. Takes into account the changes that have been made in the road and designing across the Deep Offground and Stealfjörður. As many people know, there has been a great debate over future Western roads throughout the Gufudal Deserts of Eastern Burden County. In 2006, a planning agency was on the road to Chets Forest, and since then there has been a great dispute over the road. Another situation, whether of the necks or of the tunnels, has been tried, and no conclusion came out of it. Of course, the local people have worked very hard to find a lowland road in this area. Of course, it is understandable that people want lowland roads based on weather conditions in this area on the West, and since a tunnel has not been available, it is very enjoyable. This changed road line in Chets Forest has a much lower reduction in Chef Forest than previously anticipated. The export means about 1% of the vegetation scale, which I think is very acceptable compared to the great interests of the area, and I hope this will work well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u21	A respectable president. There is a good spirit in the chamber under the firm, well - controlled rule. I'd like to take this opportunity today and wish the island to congratulate them on getting a new Navy. But a new ship needs a good port. You and I who have been concerned about Landing Island have nothing less to worry about, even if it's decided that a new ship will come. Now, it is important that the road model place on the big crust and fix the harbor. Since its beginning, land island has been closed for months each year. There is no way to invite the island's inhabitants to see that when a new ship, less and less, has to sail for months to the Pacific. That can't be the goal. In the new ship, it's not expected special rooms but that there will be ten people's cells or the public, and I just want to say that if the government went to Island, she'd have to sleep with her partners in a cell together. If she can, of course the Islanders can. Of course, having such a situation for the island is not an acceptable thing to do. I hope that the decision the government made yesterday on transportation for the Aegeans will benefit. At any rate, I'm going to become optimistic and believe that we're taking steps forward, but in order to do so, we're going to have to make sure that the originally scheduled port of the country will be established, and that we want to see that the transport reforms that follow the port when it's in order are very important to the island, to the tourism, to the careers, and to the people all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u22	A respectable president. There is plenty of work for our nation, both homes and businesses. On the other hand, if we do not speak out on facts, we cannot succeed. Now, everyone in this room knows that the government has set the priorities for health care and largely increased contributions to health care, as well as the amount. Now everyone knows that there has been an increase in financial power, an equalizing of extreme value, inexplicably low inflation, and, fortunately, there has been a smidge of cash. If people really want us to go to the Norwegian model when it comes to labour markets, they should not criticize it when it is pointed out. V.E.G. For example, the prime minister pointed out that in the countries we would like to compare with those in the exports, it is originally composed before going to other aspects, such as in public employees. If they really want us to go that way, let them agree. If people want to go anywhere else, let's just say it. A respectable president. There's enough work to do here, and many people have pain, including patients. I call attention to an article that was written in the News magazine by Ebba Margrét Magnúsdóttir, a specialist in the Women's Hospital Department. It points out that both the director of the Land Hospital and the surgeon's comments on the situation and some other factors seem to be taking a little notice of the situation, the serious situation today. [[The president calls.]] This is one of the things we have to change because it's distressing, it's turning toward the people who are weak in our society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u23	Mr. President. I recommend here for a change in the shape of a new device. 1092, electrical law. The motion is from the one here along with Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and Svandís of Sivai Svavarsdóttir: ◯ We're on the 5th. in addition to a new paragraph, as follows: despite the regulations of these regulations, the decision-making and further preparation should be carried out under the correction of an electrical line in Iceland's central highlands until the Council has concluded its proposal for a government resolution on the development of electricity policy to be submitted to the World Council for the first time prior to 15 October 2016. We think it's very important that this is agreed, that decisions and actions will not be made, and of course we don't want that to happen, without the fact that the council will be the first to discuss it, if there's anything like that in the pipe.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u24	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I'm glad this transition has taken place. She's in rich agreement with my talks last night when we discussed this. The discussion made it clear that it was my attitude, in effect, on this matter here and on the other hand, the language that we have had a bit of a success over the last popular, i.e. On the framework plan, to the front line in these matters, as I allowed myself to say, not to impress everyone, but to the lower part of The Year of the Highland. That's how I'm getting close to this thing. I think that's the big thing we need to talk about when we're discussing how to use and how to protect ourselves. I told the conversation here yesterday that I thought it would require a very special look at the bill that is underneath in view of what it opens to the middle of the country. I don't quite like this bill, just say it the way it is. I feel that it is too Soviet to bleed, and there are too much power that is taken to the shipping company, and it is far too much power taken from the rurals. When I criticized this bill here with a previous discussion, actually with 2 Peter and I. Um, I said right away that I'm still not okay with the bill. I feel that it gives the power to the company, which needs normal and often with all its difficulties, to lay lines to get the electricity across the country, way too high. However, although this bill has improved with the adjustments made in the hard discussion of 2nd. The point is, I'm not happy. However, the situation still remains, so if a moving company contributes a system of 10 to the age of 10, a rural society has to arrange its land use by within 3 years, but can obtain an eight-year extension if the shipping company provides a positive report. For parlamentian sheepdant like me, this is the first thing anyone should stop at. But the rest is so, as clearly indicated in the committee list of parts, that while the local community does not want to change its organization, it still has to be a oracle. What do some vacationers here in this hall say about such an obligatory bill? It may now be understandable that a man with my past would accept it, but I wondered what those who have preached free thinking and sit here in this hall would say about this matter. In any case, I pulled up a piece of corrosion that I didn't like. It was like this: We've been talking about it here, and especially the shipping company, the need to cross a line over explosion sand. At that time, the local communities may be opposed to both sides of the fine sand. That'll give them, if the shipping company permits? Eight years off, then what? The transport company is in charge. Not the locals. I think it's awesome, I have to say, because I think the protection will soon be about whether or not we're going into the middle of the country. I'm not giving myself anything, I know that even in my category there are men who both want it and others who don't want it. But we saw a glimpse of it in the frame program, which we discussed in the development of the greater section, what was in the car. There, the first activation within the central highlands was placed on the board of the generals, and we know that there are two more doses. All right. They'd need electrical lines, they'd need a built - up road, and there's no way they'd put the dog over the sand. That's what I'm afraid of because I think the people are supposed to be talking about it. This is a prince's position for protection and use. That's why I gave the full notice of this case. We had a little discussion here that yesterday would be a great improvement in the case if there was a change in the way I'm beginning to wonder. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who has contributed with her companions, was measuring the floats in which my eyes carried me on their wings here into this hall, so I became aware of this, since I didn't know it. I just want to use this opportunity, beloved President, to describe my extraordinary support - I'm not speaking on behalf of any of the officers, but this suggestion I intend to support.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u25	A respectable president. I recommend the Commission's Commission's opinion of a proposal for the resolution of the Treaty of measures to prevent, prevent and eliminate illegal, unsupervised and unsupervised fishing. The Commission's opinion is that the work of the Commission will be made clear on the case, but in short, it can be said that the Parliament's proposal includes that the government will be authorized to validate Iceland's agreement on measures to prevent, prevent and eliminate illegal, unsupervised and unsupervised fishing signed in Rome on November 22, 2009. The Convention on Marine Operations is the first binding international fish contract since the 1995 fishing contract. The contract was made taking into account and considering the lack of FAO guidance on state action, which was the principal model of government rules as Iceland, as well as other coastal countries in the North Atlantic, as law No. 22/2007, about a change in law No. 22/1998, the fishing and construction of foreign ships in Iceland's fishing weekend. The objective of the contract is to prevent, prevent and eliminate illegal, unsupervised and unsupervised fishing. Member States are a member of the Treaty, but the contract holds to ships that do not sail under the flag of the ocean. The contracts recommend the obligation of countries to use different governments in order to promote responsible fishing, such as shutdown to ships that are ◯black, of regional fishing agencies, treatments to drive a flag of responsibility in foreign ports, sentences of a set of minimal management requirements, monitoring measures, preventive measures, development support, and cooperation. The exception of the United Nations Sea Treaty on limited clearances of ships to come to sea because of the situation remains. A report on the State Department stated that in this country, there is a long experience in the use of marine action in an effort to facilitate illegal fishing. Iceland has been at the head of responsible coastal countries, along with other countries at the North Atlantic. Therefore, the level of the contract should not have significant changes or costs in this country. However, it is obligatory that the contract and its validation are important in increasing international cooperation on these issues. The matter was also discussed, to mention, that the bill for the implementation of the Icelandic contract is being discussed on the job board, but the committee gave the case a review, and did not comment on the validation of the contract on its part. Under the committee's opinion, write down, and write to the people here, why. Councilmen of Ásmundur Daðason Dadian, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Elín Hirst, Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, Óttarr Proppé, and Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson Far from handling the case, it was. Senators Frosti Sigurjónsson and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u26	Mr. President. Unfortunately, I was not able to be with all foreign committee discussions on the subject, but I fully support it. It seems to me that the case is growing so that it strengthens our position against pirate fishing, for example, on the Smokebones ridge. I remember because it's the highest. A president who now sits behind me, that as he sat in the seat of a seafaring minister, he showed a very thorough attitude toward those who were wronged by the Icelanders and stole fish, but this is a manner that still exists in a people, and it is still appropriate for busies to this day. That's why I'd like to ask. A senator as to whether there is no more powerful weapon here. Don't I get it right? This deal gives us sharper claws to scold us against such things? Like what? A senator knows there are also superpowers that have not acted as if they were best chosen in our backyard. Doesn't count them what they are. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee that after Iceland has in this way demonstrated its position, that the council has authorized to validate the agreement, we should use at least the spirit in it to try to push this one off our hands, I am afraid to tell pirates who are up there in Icelandic economic history, and do so first?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u27	V.E.G. President. In terms of such issues, the content of the contract may not include new sources for the Icelandic government relative to what has been in recent years, i.e. We have basically adopted the rules and guidelines that the contract already contains. To validate the agreement on our behalf and formally introduce it in Icelandic legislation, of course, strengthens our position, we can say in a global way. As with other matters, it is important for us that as many as possible are involved in the common policy of the agreement. That's how I agree. Skarphéðinsson Our situation will certainly be stronger if the contract does not include such new sources or previously unknown to the Icelandic government to the extent that their jurisdiction embraces.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A recent Birgir of a Ármannsson, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, for an excellent answer. It may be true that this agreement did not bring us new weapons to deal with a pirate ship, but I put it that way, i.e. In the spirit of this contract. Since we are at the turning point to accept the government's authority to validate it, I might feel that we were allowed to drift away and take advantage of the spirit in which we live. As far as I know, it has been that those who have practiced what I'm not reluctant to call poachers - these are stocks as foreign nations far off from getting in and certainly have no share in like the cutthroats that go there, to the prizes of these nations by selling them food, providing the refuge we've always done, selling them oil to our ports because we have Icelanders from that income, but they're still stealing from us the seed. That's why I feel that we have to take it more seriously, and we've actually talked about it. But you don't think why. A senator and president of the Foreign Affairs Committee that this milestone may be held at the highest level. The minister of state, whom we see far too seldom, on our good committee and discuss these matters with him? The case is also, if I recall correctly, there is still a considerable lack of appreciation for the international agreement because there are not enough countries to validate it. I don't remember the numbers, I think maybe we're the 12th or 13th, something like that. Is that not what we need as a fishing nation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u29	V.E.G. President. Regarding the direct question as a question. A senator directed me to discuss this matter at the highest level. Minister of Foreign Affairs I agree that there is a reason for that, as well as the highest. A professional minister who conducts many aspects of these matters, as man knows. I believe there is every reason to have a meeting with them on these subjects. Whatever it is. Of course, a senator also calls attention to the position of the agreement of this kind. Of course, it is true that for this agreement to take formal value, a certain number of members of the United Nations must become members of the United Nations to him and validate him, and that we should take this step now must include certain encouragement for others to do the same. Then, in general, this issue is that for us as a fishing nation it is of utmost importance that the most clearly defined legislation on the seas and rights and duties there exist. It has been the policy of the Icelandic government for a long time to be on the lead in that, we can say that laws are overfishing in the ocean and that there are not many words about the great interests it is seeking for us in relation to the location of the country and economic interests of fishing that most people are involved in this and that the rules of this kind are respected in most nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u30	Mr. President. In particular, I'm glad we're completing our approval with a government authority to validate this agreement. It's a contract that's important to a seabed state like Iceland. In fact, in fact, we have quite a lot of money in this contract. If you look at his story, he is, in effect, off the oceans, probably approved in 1996, and he was raised from a discussion held by Icelanders, especially by the famous Rio Conference of his time in 1992. Iceland was then a member of a group of countries who worked particularly hard on sustainable fishing roads, and Iceland stressed that there would be some way of taking measures to reduce the application of both terrestrial and ploughing institutions, i.e. establishments that had bound both within and outside the jurisdictions of various countries. During this time, a number of factors went together, first of all, a shrinking of institutions within the economic history of many countries, an increasing technology, and a new seat that led to a growing attendance on these institutions. It was the forward view of the Icelanders and other coastal countries, which led to a discussion that led to the ocean - fishing conference that returned to the treaty, to my mind in 1996. It or alongside it discussed the need to make the kind of agreement that we are now confirming. He is very good, and he provides us with many means to go against those who are wrongfully fishing at institutions they do not have the right to. On the other hand, it is a song on the advice of this contract, which was ended in 2006, and we Icelanders along with the representatives of eight other nations, just when I was a minister of foreign affairs, signed under it in Rome, that since then little has happened to him. There were nine countries that would write under him, and recall that Iceland was in a so - called nuclear group of coastal states that prepared this contract, so it is related to the beard in that subject, but the contract needs to be validated by 25 countries in order for it to take effect. Since we signed, not many other countries are fully validated, i.e. I believe that the states of Iceland have become 12, maybe only 11, but it takes 25 for him to take effect. Then I believe that at this special milestone there are two things the Icelanders should do, and the turning point is that we are here to give permission to confirm on our part to the government. These two factors are in the first place that I believe that we on the Foreign Affairs Committee are to be contacted by the State Department of State, I proposed to the minister of Foreign Affairs, to discuss how we can at least talk about it. used the spirit of these laws to those who have been completely catching up in economic history, dancing on it, and like the highest. The President knows, sometimes through her. In recent years, I feel that we may not have been sufficiently alert. This is necessary. Hv. The head of the State Department of State has said in this discussion that he might not consider it delayed to get to the highest level. Agricultural and marine minister. I agree with that. Of the two, based on their experience, I believe that that man would be as inferior as he would be to set up Iceland's affairs, to be perfectly clear. So I suggest that the Foreign Affairs discuss it with the Ministers. There's another thing I think we need to talk to these two fine ministers. As I told you earlier, it is not surprising that enough countries will validate this agreement in order for it to take effect. I have also traced the fact that the Icelanders have a part of the firstborn's right to that agreement. I also believe Iceland is one of the countries that have significant benefits from driving in the ocean so they don't have to worry about kidnapping and shrapnel. Therefore, it is important that countries like Iceland take the initiative to get support for the contract of other countries. That's the second thing I think the State Department should discuss with the two tops. Ministers who have been named, secretary of state and sea emissary; how do you intend to use Iceland, and can exert yourself to validate the agreement in the way we are here? It's a matter of concern to Iceland's interests. The class is that we are doing this formally, and it is only natural for us to use that milestone to examine how we can strengthen our contract and thereby strengthen our own interests and how we too can use certain material provisions in it that, as a matter of fact, can. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year has pointed out, has already been locked into various other correctities in Iceland. Still, we're supposed to use this to see how we can better protect Iceland's share from those who're fucking with us every winter on a Smokey ridge and stealing from us fish.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u31	Mr. President. I hereby recommend the Commission's Commission's committee's proposal for the resolution of the decision made by the European Commission No. 153/2014 for the conversion of X. Annex to the EEA Convention. The committee considers the work of the Committee on this matter. This will discuss the patient's rights regarding national health care and the Commission's Commission's order to facilitate the recognition of prescriptions published in another Member State. It should be possible, as indicated in the opinion of the Committee, that a six - month delay according to the EEA Convention to defuse a administrative notice was provided on January 9, 2015. The committee believes that the proposal procedure is in line with Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The contents of the directive may also be discussed to determine if the material adjustment needed for Iceland in accordance with Article 2. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. So the case had received material coverage on the State Department and, actually, on the welfare committee before becoming part of the EEA Convention. The Commission considers the purpose of the directive that it is to facilitate access to a secure, high - quality health service across borders and to promote co-operation of health care between Member States and the legalisation of various rights as previously accepted in the European Court's judgments. According to the State Department's review, the directive is not entitled to governments to organise their own health care or how it is administered to each of them. The directive's principle is that a patient can attend medical services in another Member State to the extent that they would have received their services there. It is noted in the Committee that not all health care services should be provided by the National Competent Authority; this is not health care for patients for the support of daily activities, transplants or vaccinations. It is also noted that in the case of a simple healthcare professional, the patient will be able to cross borders without pre-communication and will then be entitled to reimburse. However, the directive allows a state to require pre-election in certain cases to regulate the patient's flow in support of public interest. The Committee also lists the Directive 2011/24/EU as a mutual recognition of prescriptions, as being the principle in the EEA region. These measures will be considered in these technical measures to facilitate the recognition of prescriptions published in another Member State. In the conclusion of the Commission opinion, the implementation of Directive 2011/24/EU calls for changes in health insurance laws, and is expected to be submitted to the current Parliament. According to the Commission's review, the European Commission is planning on making room for the full demand of a prior agreement, and it will further be stated in the Regulation. The need for a pre-healthcare professional stay at a hospital for at least one night, the use of specialised and expensive equipment, treatment with special risks for the patient or the general public, or where there is any reason to doubt that the quality or safety of the health care department are adequate. A discussion on the Committee also showed that rights under the directive are only being directed to services already provided in the country and to the extent that the State is involved in such costs. In addition, a request to attend a second service may be denied if it can be given in a country within the time period to be justified medically when the situation is taken into account. The Committee reviewed the possibility that governments could take action on the basis of the greater need for public interest to ensure adequate and sustained services will result in great international application. Today, there is little need for individuals to travel abroad to seek medical care, but this may be useful in areas near the border and even shorter in the ministry. The nature of the situation in this country is not relevant, and the directive is therefore unlikely to have any major impact on the country. The committee suggests that the matter will be agreed with. In addition to this, under the view of printed publications. Councilmen Vilhjálmur the son of Bjarnason, Elín Hirst, Sigurjónsson the son of Sigurion, Óttarr Proppé, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter, and wrig. The people of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, and Össur Skarphéðinsson's son, both in advance. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason was absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u32	Mr. President. This is one of the issues that have been brought up by the media and that have led to great changes in the welfare of many. I don't think so. I don't think this Senate case will break through, and this EU decision, which we record in our rights, will not matter, as it was, of course. Chairman of the Committee. I'm gonna support this whole thing. It may well be useful to someone, but I'm still going to note that there is a government warrant in the countries involved in this process to control the use of this process. Like what? The chairman of this report will be able to do so by means of Regulation. He listed certain factors that would require precipitating. The neck of a bottle is foreboding, and in part, a state can control its costs for this. I think it's perfectly normal, and I believe that all the hopes attached to it, or based on the coverage of mistellates and miswise media, are not based on evidence. Well, that's another story. This looks for improvement and in some cases can help people, but it's not usually going to do it here in Iceland. It is well explained in this committee that it is especially in other geographic conditions where such possibilities exist. My priorities in this matter, however, are not based on these opinions and high - level expectations that I consider to be increasing. Rather, it is associated with a discussion that has been about the ways to conduct health care. There have been a lot more discussions in Europe and in the continent than here that it is supposed to be moving towards more personal and private improvements in health care. There was an angry dispute, including at the time, in connection with the recording of certain types, which led to the Icelanders taking very clear notice in their time of a particular directive that we adopted and was, if I recall correctly, of some sort of variations of the multistory service directive. My support for this matter is strongly explained by the fact that this is in no way a government that takes up this directive to conduct health care once and in every way that the state chooses. This is in no way a person is walking on the path to encourage personal or private failures. If so, it is an independent decision, and it is not all connected, and it is not possible to plan on, on the basis of this matter's approval, in some way sales of foreign service that the Icelandic government would pay on the basis of this procedure by health care. That's my man. I know that this can be read out of certain words in the committee opinion. On the other hand, I wanted to be part of it, and on behalf of my political associates, it's a big hit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u33	Mr. President. I just wanted to agree with that understanding. paritaprevir Heeding Össur's Skarphéðinsson that this directive and its induction does not necessarily mean that Iceland is forced in any way to change its health policy. I think that within this framework, which is being proposed to be adopted, there may be less private business and more private business. The policies and decisions in these areas are beyond the material under consideration. I think that although we may have differing opinions about how the combination of services in the medical field should be, we can agree on this understanding of the content of this particular Congress proposal and the legal adjustments it will lead to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u34	Mr. President. There may be more power in the European Union than I thought. I see that our first step in implementing this directive in Icelandic rights leads to failure. The head of the State Department of State is under the flag of those who are fighting personalization and who are increasing personal business in health care because it is different in their view that I could not explain and understand the excellent speech as well. A senator moved here earlier. It didn't surprise me because I've stopped surprised at that good man, so fast he matures in some respects. But I would say that this might be compared when Sál was on his way to Damascus and was struck with lightning and understood all things of new understanding and of speaking with tongues, possibly with men and angels, I will not say whether they are. The head of the State Department has started, but at least I found the song beautiful and supported it on this journey. It's a good thing, though, that we agree on this. There are a number of ways in which this can be accomplished. If the government's will were available, it would well be possible to imagine that organized patients were organized into foreign lands, where private citizens performed a form of service that was not available in this country and paid for by the Icelandic government. Well, that's something you can think of. But I believe that the Icelandic state should only perform its fine service, as it has basically done for a very long time. Whatever the case, let us not forget that the best part is in the Icelandic health system. [[The president calls.]] I hereby declare, Mr. President, I rejoice that we are still walking on rhythms. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u35	Mr. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I need to know that we're going to have a good deal with this case because the factors that might cause conflict among us are not in this matter of Congress. As I said in my previous answer, I believe that the induction of this procedure will not force us to be less private health - care failure or more. I still think our policy will be shaped by our Icelandic situation and the decisions made in this room. This case doesn't have any effect on that direction, either way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u36	Mr. President. Only a few words into this context. I have observed this matter only, and I have known that it was coming. Because of what to talk about. Ármannsson, I would like to say that many of the same questions have been raised in my mind and in my mind. Birgir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was here. Now, of course, a man of foreign affairs, as presented here in a committee list, takes note that the induction of this contract does not automatically force us to make major changes in our health - care organization, I do not doubt that. But it is clear how many people feel about making good use of others. This contract is designed to clear the way for more markets of health care and to be able to fetch it from the resources and rights of any country. In doing so, it clears the way for private servants to increase their opportunities for this service. This will be a short question as to whether you can buy your way to the waiting lists, etc. It is fine that these views are to be tore in here and to address them as far as this means that they are not preparing or presenting any fundamental changes in our health - care services, even though many who have worked to accomplish this work might see them well. I know that very well, including. Because of discussions in the Norwegian field on how this might affect the health - care provider's organization in the North countries, this and other related issues. However, since I mention the northern countries, I feel disappointed that there has been no further progress in cooperation in the Northern States with more specialized health care. Of course, it's coming from two sides, i.e. From the standpoint of user service, those in need of health care, and of course their interests are crucial. However, this is also a matter of the host, the state, who pays attention to this work and what possibilities are there for cooperation in countries to improve the ministry and improve its effectiveness through increased cooperation. A major report was published at the National Council, probably a year and a half, two years ago. The Könberg report, I think it was named after the head. It provided very interesting suggestions on how the North countries could and should work more together in the field of health care for both more powerful and more specialized users, which would lead to government saving. It would, of course, have to promote cooperation and improve the agreements that exist in the Northern countries on cooperation in this area. I'm not of that opinion, a respectable president, and I have more ambition for the Norwegian cooperation than then I want it to sink into some cohesive types. I believe the North countries are to protect their right to work together on deeper and more broad conditions than they do because of their involvement with the European Union or their connections through the EEA, as in our case and Norway. There's been a little discussion here about the fact that Iceland has not yet undergone the task of long - term purchase of positronics to the country. Some new highly specialized but very important research tools available in the other North countries all from one, two, three, to ten, but there is no such thing in Iceland. In fact, there is still an unregistered request from me to the highest level. Health Minister for... [[He's afraid to answer you.]] No, it is not only against him but also with a speaker who has been away from the highest. A health minister could answer, so be careful now. But positronics and other highly specialized medical devices are examples of things that are becoming so developed, expensive, and specialized that there is an unrealistic vision for the future that each of the northern countries will develop such equipment. It has even been discussed that, in individual cases, there would be a center for such the most specialized cures in all the North countries, and perhaps there would be a exchange of services, one type of service and equipment in Oslo, another in Copenhagen, etc. It requires deep cooperation. I just want to keep it in mind when discussing the introduction to the European Directive on this subject, which has a very lofty and noble objective, to facilitate access to high quality health services across borders, that there is more to these substances than European cooperation and reason to remind you of the Norwegian cooperation. Also, certain health services are excluded from these rules; they are not part of this directive. These include organ transplants, but most of the Icelanders have been dependent on their neighbors'cooperation with them, and this agreement does not change them. A respectable president. To avoid further expansion, I am among those who have examined this with the critical glasses on my nose that I do not intend to represent the basic changes in health care in the direction of privateisation; however, enough is now if you were to slip such a thing through the back door via the introduction of a European Directive. And I have more ambition than I have on the part of the Norwegian Health Organization that I want to see it sink into this principle.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u37	Mr. President. I explain to the State Department's Committee members due to the confirmation of Congress resolution on the confirmation of the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee on the Change of II. The addition of the EEA Convention to address technical regulations, standards, testing and certification. This is under the marketing rules and the use of supernovas. On June 12, 2015, a six month delay in the EEA Convention was given to lift a controlled command. The Commission has discussed the matter and is made aware of this introductory information on the introduction of the Committee opinion, but on the subject of the proposal, it is to say, as mentioned in the committee's opinion, that with the Directive it aims to limit the availability of the public to materials and chemical mixtures that can be used to produce illegal explosives and to ensure notifications of suspicious business through certain materials. Therefore, the type of bioavailability, marketing, management and use of certain materials is recommended. An illegal production is made more difficult by measuring the allowed concentration limits for certain supernatant products and discussing that the public's availability of materials above those strengths should be limited, but if the state chooses to make them available to the public, they must be authorised and registered in a special database. An appendix lists eight substances necessary in various standard productions. Access to it is not limited, but it is mandatory to report suspicious business practices, such as blurred by a customer regarding planned use, intend to buy substances in exceptional quantities, unusual strengths, or unusual combinations. The Committee reviewed that the introduction calls for changes in weapons law, No. 16/1998, and it is assumed that this bill will be submitted to the autumn Summit. It was then noted that the type contains laws of personal protection as a result of reports of business, which are important in taking into account the introduction of the procedure. It is not expected that the type will have a major impact in this country as there is little need for information in the public. That is why a foreign legal committee proposes that the proposal be accepted as unchanged. In addition to this, under the view of printed publications. Councilmen of Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, Elín Hirst, Frosti Sigurjónsson, Katrín of Jakobsdóttir, and Ottir Proppé. Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir and Össur Skarphéðinsson were absent at the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u38	V.E.G. President. I recommend a board of members of the Parliament's resolution of the confirmation of a contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands on fishing within the United States of 2015. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Birgir Hrafn Búason Buson and Kristján Andri Stefánsson from the Ministry of State. The proposal involves the review of the Allegorical Act of the Convention Between Iceland and the Country for Fishing in Icelandic and New York City in 2015, which was replaced by a letter exchange in Thorsve, and in Reykjavík, January 6, and January 20, 2015. The contract requires permission of parties to fish seafood in each other's legal history in 2015. The contract remains unchanged from the previous year to the second, but the source of the gaming ships to be held in the Icelandic jurisdiction of the contract since 2014 does not have the terms of Article 1. This contract contains sources of hairy fish From Icelandic legislation for the season 2014/2015, as well as the season of 2015/2016. The Commission reported that the total amount was the same as if traditional sources were granted last year, but this decision was decided to keep because of uncertainty about the increasing environmental change that has not led to changes in share. Comments on the proposal are made that the contract allows for a mutual warrant for each party's fishing the carbons and Norwegian-islen fertilities within the legal history of the other 2015. Then, in 2015, there are as many as 1,300 trains of macroil and 2,000 trains of herring other than Norwegian-islensk. Before this deal was made, the national Convention since 1976 determined that high - quality ships were allowed to catch 5,600 trains of bottom fish by Iceland during 2015. However, the overall power of cod will be no more than 1,375 trains, the total segments of a cone no more than 750 trains, and no fishing will be allowed on the hatches or in grays. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Under these publications. paritaprevir Sheikh the Birgir of Ármannsson, Silja the Gunnarsdóttir of Guggnar, Daðason the son of Dadar, Bjarnason Björn, Elín Hirst, Sigurjónsson the son of Sigrion, daughter of Katrín, daughter of Jakobsdóttir, Ottir Proppé, and Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u39	Mr. President. Dans and Greenlands are among all of our finest neighboring nations, and we are expected to make a great deal of compromise with those nations. In fact, some of us members of the council have made a special resolution, which, as with many other fine cases, has not been prepared on the program and will later be reassigned, which is, of course, unfortunate. Icelanders have always had very close cooperation with the Faults of Fishing. This has greatly helped us through the years, has enabled us to catch much of the seawaters, and we have given them mutual rights. I note that at the time, Iceland's fishing exports have been through a technological revolution, which in a sense was directed by the Faeroes. It was during those years when we were buying bigger ships, and the Icelanders back then learned a great deal from 540s who came here by the hundreds, even thousands, to work on the Icelandic fishing field, especially on Eastern soil, and many lived in the Middle East. That's why there are so many Faeroes who are a citizen in Iceland today and may be a little older, but have been a good addition to Icelandic society. In a way, we have returned our friendship with the Faeroes and good cooperation in the fishing field. Since 1990, when the Faeroes went through a difficult financial crisis, which resulted in one third of the Movers moving away, the Icelanders were actually going through an unexpected crisis, which proved to be deeper and greater when they were later considered, and there was no hope for them. In those years, however, we Icelanders were shocked by our neighborly affection and affection for our uncle's crisis by giving them 30,000 tons of fur. I've always felt that we haven't had enough interest in that gift because Icelandic builders had it placed on a wide range of means, including those. to prevent New York's newfound markets in Japan from falling prey to some way that the Faulters could play on the Icelanders. I have always felt that our gift to the Faeroe should have much more equipment than we have done and that it was beautiful to see how this has always been done and to try to get it back. It was a gift. Then, many times they have paid back, and perhaps they can recall the kindness they showed us when the Icelanders were experiencing the collapse of the bank, and the first nations offered to share in the payment of the currency we needed to get back to our knees and then the legs and to take no interest in the interest of many others. In effect, the agreement that we make each year regularly underlines our cooperation in this field. It can also be recalled that here, over the years, people have been raised again and again at the Generals and have seen too many of them, in the shape of our bottom-fishing facilities, to come here and take a certain amount of bottom fish. This year it's 5,600 trains. I've always been one of those people who have absolutely against the fact that, in any way, it's a challenge. This is how we should do it, and we have enjoyed it in many ways. The only thing I've ever participated in, and indeed measured at the time, was to forbid them to hunt the nerds here in the hiking because the hatch population had come to a position where it couldn't be, I thought, to let a straight application to it. That battle took several years, but it became reality. The hosts were not happy about this, but, of course, they, like us, must follow all the rules of sustainable fishing. As noted in the case of a historian, I support this case and write under the opinion of the committee. However, I wanted to come up here again and again to reiterate my position to the fine cooperation we have had with the Faeroe Islands and the need for us to keep it going and not relax. All the things that humans sometimes feel that we have given deliverers they have paid much back with access to their own economic legal history. And it is a joy, Mr. President, that today, in the long - tailed ocean out, there are many challenges they have successfully tackled in the fishing field. They have also mastered the species of fishing soil. Both of these factors have led to a much stronger economic situation in the Faeroes, and to their being truly worthy of being counted among the major means of fishing on this and the edge of the Atlantic Ocean.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u40	Madam President. I have nothing to note, however, that this synopsis proposal for confirmation of our annual contracts and the Entires on the fishing business is presented here in this way and made an account of it. I miss it, but it would have been nice and would have been totally at home in this discussion, that the foreign matter committee or its manager will make us aware if there has been something in general about the situation and the big picture in these topics. There was little discussion about that. Some people would say that it might be better at home in general discussions here on foreign affairs or in connection with a foreign minister's report, but at some point I feel that there are only words left to say about some factors that have been changing in these relationships, including ours and especially ours. The one here speaks is a great Faeroe Islands friend who has been loyally guarding the fishing warrants that the Faeroe Islands have had here on historical grounds ever since we moved out the weekend and are the next single persons in their dealings with the nations. [[Larger.]] In the foundation they were in the long, long years completely one-sided, i.e. We allowed the Faeroe Islands to maintain several direct fishing grounds within the fishing record after its arrival, which served as a sign of friendship and good cooperation between these nations. I, along with others, resisted the movement in 1990 to cut down the Faeroe Fishing Permissions of the Faeroe Islands, and even the National Association of the Roads had come up with that position and policy. I thought it was so shortsighted and unfair to our good neighbors. In the Faeroe Islands, lineboats, a large number of small families are building their existence in these limited fishing grounds in Iceland. It was with good cooperation, not the least important that then the Western Council and the links between the politicians in Iceland and the Faeroe Islands and Greenland were useful in protecting that good relations would not be arduous. Then, in the years and suddenly, it turned out to be part of our existence and access to what the Icelanders had to learn the legal history on the basis of this exchange, we became extremely valuable in the years when we were retrieving our skills in the Norwegian-islend silhouette, which returned to the share we have in those waters. Then they admitted that it would probably have been shortsighted if we had been under scrutinizing with the Faeroes during those years, although it would certainly be rather difficult for us to catch the bullfish. All of this does not change because there is a need to discuss certain things that have now happened in this relationship. Over the course of two years, there has been a significant change since the fact that Iceland and the Faeroe Islands were almost entirely associated with other countries, e.g. for the fishing warrants in macroil and after incidents of Norwegian-islencian silhouettes and more shareholders, to the position we are facing today, and here has been no mention, which is, in fact, that the movers have made an agreement with the European Union and Norway on their share in macroil. I am not envious of the fact that the Faeroe Islands strengthen their foundation in this regard. They had a high requirement as a beach state to demand some reasonable share also from the mackerelquathanes. But the problem is, Iceland was left out and is without a deal. The European Union's opposition to the European Union is no longer at large, but its opposition to Norway and the Testimony Treaty's contract does not help in these activities and has put Iceland in a more difficult position. In addition, the Faeroes took a single - sided share in the Norwegian-islian fishing warrants far higher than they had had under contracts, and Iceland as a rival in that area cannot, of course, completely ignore the fact that we are now having a case, so we do not agree on the use of important species. This is a measure of concern in view of the strong and good communication that has always been between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands in these products. You might even add the gray window. It was also disappointing that, after many years, the contract between Iceland and Greenland finally reached the division of the Grows stock, but the movers did not get the share that we and Greenland thought was fair and normal and that they had not become members of that agreement. The fishing warrants in this contract are, on 5,600 trains of bottom fish and 30,000 trains of hairy, on the basis of the salad of 500,000 tons, are in the ground of the single - side fishing rights of Investigators in Iceland. This does little to discourage, 1,300 trains macroil, and 2,000 trains of other silds than Norwegian-islensk, within the ever-several legal history, which has been used to a limited extent, or what it should be. Of course, a very valuable access to Iceland is involved. It may be the mutuality that is primarily part of the agreement, however, that we had the access that we have to witness on the fishing of carbons, which include. are now in these weeks in the simple jurisdiction, and certain sources in the Norwegian-islen fjords. Well, that's the way it is. This doesn't make any changes. It's not because of the reasons I'm taking this up especially here, but because I think it's necessary to keep your eyes open and people have to talk to each other on public grounds. It would be sad if, as you might imagine, they were getting stiff, at the same time that significant results have been made in improving Iceland and Greenland communication with the agreement on gray-luded, with the Dohrn Bank contract and the annual cooperation agreement that is active and new between countries. This needs to be considered, and I believe that the Foreign Affairs Committee and the case of the employment board need to be aware that this interaction does not necessarily progress in all respects when this is taken into consideration. It must be determined by the things that matter when it comes to the fishing system as a whole between these good neighbors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u41	Mr. President. Everything is right. A senator says, there were two shadows in the last two years over our communications and the Re-eys. The first was when the Faeroes made a contract that Iceland thought was made behind it to the mackerel strain, and the second, of course, is taken by a larger part of the Norwegian-iscian silen population. The Norwegian-Easthenian plant is naturally self-centered and of particular concern over both the development of the strain and the development of the contract case, or should we not say evolution? However, it is true that the State Department has now taken care of this matter and reviewed it, but we would likely have to do so much better. As for the first, it is now that, despite the harsh talk I gave about the Faeroe Islands and their fermentation at the time, because I was shocked, especially because of our friendship and their mutual support in the fishing field, that when you cross the case and look at it, the prisoners were in the position that they were sailing into a very severe penalty of both hunting at the macrolide, how they had taken a great deal of it, but also because of the way they held themselves against the Norwegian Silifier population. This was then the right deal, and it was made to think of the Norwegian to isolate the Icelanders. Hv. A senator put it this way: "It is no longer against the European Union, but it is for the Norwegian people, but it was always that way. I always said that at this time, they were mostly Norwegians who were preventing an agreement between Iceland and the European Union and that it has already happened. So the hosts had some excuses, and I have so much more to say, Madam President, which is then right for me to do in a speech afterwards.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u42	Mr. President. You're absolutely right. A senator and I made it clear, and I made it clear at the time that I had a deep understanding of the difficult situation in the Faeroes. They were, in fact, in a shocking predicament with all their negotiations with the Norway and the European Union in an upset state, and they really didn't have anywhere to go in that relationship except with Iceland and Russia. And the penalties they suffered there, of course, were scandalous, there was nothing else, adventureful situation in a country that was part of the Danish kingdom, to be punished by Dan, by its involvement in the European Union, its participants in, that is, in effect, amazing. This does not change the fact that we must look to the effect this will have on us and our interests and agreements. In other words, in a single period after the secret agreements in Scotland, the situation turned so that instead of the failure of the movers, Iceland was left alone in this field of isolation. The Norwegian attitude is a capitalite completely by itself. You're right. A senator says that it became progressively clear, I don't think it was clear from the beginning, but in any case, after failureal negotiations about the mackerel in London at the beginning of September 2012, which I attended along with Mrs. Damanaki and Ministers of Norway and the Faeroe Islands, where the problem lay, and that was in Norway. There was no desire to move, but the European Union had begun to extend much toward our viewpoint, and as it is known, it was so ready to agree with a share that most people would probably have considered to be somehow satisfactory on our part.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u43	Madam President. In these last days and indeed the last loss has been referred to several times as the book bearing the name The Year of the Dragon. If men read the dragon's age, they will learn that from a series of events, it seems that the Norwegians were very determined to do two things. First of all, prevent us from achieving contracts about the macroil population at the European Union. But second, it also comes out that I got very early on the suspicions I thought reasoned that they didn't intend to make further deals with us on the Norwegian-Sisland Islands stock. I brought it up here in my own time, and at least some in the resistance thought it was a lot of paranoja of me, but how is it today, we have a deal for the Norwegian-ish silencing population, so? No. All that the Norwegians let shine and threaten to do to the Icelanders they've followed. As for the behavior of the Faeroes in these and Dana, however, I tell Dana that they declared that they were going to try to use their diplomatic influence in an effort to extract the beacons from these materials, and they did. They played a major role, but they could, of course, have used force of denial in the early stages. However, about the Hobies, I tell them: Although they were boys, when it was clear that the contracts were failing in Edinburgh, they left behind Iceland's windways. They tried to get that information to the highest level. Secretary of state. He slept at their price. It was said in the Foreign Affairs that he should go to the Faeroe Islands immediately and speak with the Faeroes. He didn't leave. He wasn't even at that meeting. What was he doing that week? [[The president calls.]] You should remember that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u44	Madam President. I'm sure there'll be a time to think about all this better, and maybe it's some of that now. [[She's now.]] I cannot deny that the bad things happened in connection with the meeting in Edinburgh and that we had been awake enough. There was a strange situation when the Iceland embassy went home just as if it were all over, and it didn't seem to have any suspicions at all that they stayed behind. There should have been a warning signal right now. And perhaps we too could have worked out something better. But we are, of course, since we have this interaction, and what I'm simply stressing is that now evolution has become so that it is inevitable that we, at the greatest of all, will be friends, but on purpose, we dare to discuss it. And it's all right to know that there's a legal hearing here that their good friends had about this exchange, because these are new situations that we have to face in some way, that lead not in the same way political and interest as they've done most of the time in Iceland and the Faeroe Islands. Of course, they must take care of themselves, there is no one to criticize, and it was the least of us Icelanders to recognize the need for their share and to fight for them in this regard. At any rate, it has taught us cruelly and is still doing so, as it were. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson rightly referred to Norway, which, of course, has been very difficult for us over and over again. I have a theory that, in part, it is the cumulative resentment of the Norwegians because they believe that the Icelanders have overcrowded the agreements of Norwegian-Sished, of the coal harvest, of hunting up the Barents Sea, and are somehow trying to straighten this out of historical history by being even more difficult to deal with today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u45	Mr. President. I think this is an excellent reason for considering just a few things from the history of these cases. But because of him. A senator mentioned a deal about the Norwegian-Sislands population that it is worth recalling that the fine man who is still to be buried, Ásgrímsson Ásgrimsson, obtained fine contracts in his time. I'll think about it before then. A senator thought it only better when he was in those contracts how I was and what I was doing. A senator, mostly me and him, hung out a day and in that he didn't get better at contracts because he said: "It helps me in Norway. The rest I must say, his successor in the same category, Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, the highest. Secretary of State, did not have the same knees as the noble political cow when it came to the mackerel. You're right to remember it all up. Someone's gonna think of you like a dog. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon that Iceland's embassy in Edinburgh didn't know about this? Of course she knew. These were Iceland's most floating and best diplomats in foreign service, and the man in the water department on the side which I thought best was down and was delighted at the moment. A senator appointed him to lead the Contract Committee. Of course, they knew about this, and of course they came to their husbands, there is no need to be misled. The matter was simply this: The Icelandic senators became this very early impression. This was specifically discussed at a meeting, an extra meeting at the State Department, which was held, if I recall correctly, in the late days when people discussed this. And the highest. Of course, the minister of foreign affairs did not come to the meeting, for he was busy that week, as I will later be. But his agents at that meeting got it totally clear, at least from the one here, that, under these circumstances, should be the highest. Secretary of State to throw everything away and go to the Faeroe Islands and talk to his colleagues. In the past, Icelandic rulers have been able to do so even if something was becoming hollow under the cooperation of these two nations. It would all be drawing to the point where it was happening, and it would be what the Norwegians had been working on, to isolate the Icelanders completely. What just happened this week? V.E.G. A minister of the State who preconceived this case probably had one of the greatest failures the government has had during this time of election and, however, is of a lot to take, was in another mission. This was the most nervous week. The minister of foreign affairs broke down when he saw and read the report that he himself had ordered for our participation in the European Union. These were the days when he was calling out the motion for a cut - off discussion. So busy with other things, he was so preoccupied with political pursuits that he slept on guard and failed to care for the interests of Icelanders. I'm not saying that he could have managed to save the cases, but if at that time he had gone to the Faeroe Islands and talked to some good-eyed counsellors, to the council, and appealed to the old cooperation we've always had with the movers in this field, he would have at least created for them to sting beneath their roof, but they didn't even feel guilty, they never saw them. So I told them in my talk here to the highest. The minister of state would have slept on guard and screwed up the mackerel case. I still believe that he could have done much, much more. This is what I want to say for this discussion, and history will later reveal in what way it is highest. A minister of foreign affairs was made aware of what was before them, probably on the second day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u46	V.E.G. President. I recommend to the State Department's Committee's Committee on a proposal for a resolution of a contract between Greenland and Iceland on the management of shrimping in Dohrn Bank. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Birgir Búason Hrafn and Kristján Andri Stefánsson from the Ministry of State. The proposal requires a review of the Allied warrant for a contract between Iceland and Greenland on the management of shrimping at Dohrn Bank signed in Reykjavík, March 29, 2014. As indicated in comments to the proposal, the annual contract between Iceland and Greenland in the field of fishing was signed in Reykjavík, March 29, 2014. On that occasion the national agreement on the management of shrimping at Dohrn Bank was signed, a common strain in the region of the north and west of the West. The percentages of this strain between the nations were not reached, but the latest scientific advice published by the Northwestern Atlantic Fishing Agency (NAFO) predicted a total of 2,000 tons in 2014. Until such an agreement is established, the nations will have mutual access to jurisdiction for a limited number of fish. For the first time, the contract assumes that Greenland can provide 375 tons of shrimp on the Iceland border on jurisdictional level, as well as the Icelanders on the 375 Greenland side. The hunter of the Greenlandite is going to submit to the Koreans'rules, while commercial law is in accordance with local regulations. The contract is non-timely and first returns to value 30 days after both parties have confirmed it, but it already has Greenlandns. The contract can be canceled in six months' notice. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Under the words of Birgir the son of Ármannsson, Silja the Dögg of Gunnarsdóttir, Daðason the son of Dadar, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Elín Hirst, Sigurjónsson the son of Sigrion, daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, Ottir Proppé, and Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u47	Mr. President. I truly hold this contract with a clear heart. It's a huge deal. He's untimely, and he shows us what our cooperation is in Greenland and Iceland is in relaxed, relaxed areas. This is a stock that does not reach an agreement between the nations, but it allows each other to catch up to a considerable percentage of what is fishable, according to the NAFFO in its jurisdiction. That's what I'd call a house of friends. I have to say it. This agreement further confirms the increased communication between Iceland and Greenland in recent years. In one of my talks earlier this morning, I and a number of members of all classes made a pact proposal very early in the fall of how the government of Iceland should deal with Greenland in order to promote and deepen them. Strangely, though it was one of the first events proposed in the fall, it has not yet been accomplished. So I feel that it is the right thing to go for this reason over the part of the synonym that involved just fishing. One of the 15 points, actually two, suggested that the Icelandic government push its way in order to deepen this cooperation toward sea fishing. It is remarkable that in the Greenland independence struggle, the way they manage to play their resources and the way they manage to obtain valuables from their resources is very important. Me and the Icelanders have heard all kinds of spray vision of great fortunes in the earth, a great ease below the bottom of the ocean in the form of oil, but I have always felt that the Greenlands have not viewed their resources sufficiently at sea. That's why I'm saying this because there's now two great seafarings. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson and Páll Jóhann Pálsson, who are sure to address this point below, that in a thousand yards from the World Assembly Hall, the Icelandic sea icicle that has undergone the leadership of Þór Sigfússon has done quite an amazing achievement, I think to investigate and explore possibilities. One thing that the Icelandic sea icicle did was consider what the product of their marine products would be greatly increased if they received it for just every kilogram from the sea as well as for the Icelanders. Then it turns out that if the cooperation between Iceland and Greenland on the seabed would lead to the exact way in which they could take hold of the catch, to get it out and sell it, the difference between what they're getting now and what they remember is almost equal to what they're getting called, by permission of the President, would be the basis of what they're getting into their economy. This is amazing. In other words, there are two things the Greenland has to do in order to stand on their own feet; first of all, they need to make money that balances Dana's contribution every year to their government funds; second, they need income in order to develop a welfare community. It is a nation that is getting older, and there are many social problems. It turns out that the fishing route as it is today could, in effect, solve one of these problems. When you look at the fact that the sea is warming up for its good effects and it is likely to become much more fishy around Greenland than before, you see that they have the potential for achieving independence and building its economic foundation on the ocean road. In Western Germany, for example, men have been catching ten of them. a ton of cod. We know, Iceland, that in the warm years, when the population has been very large in Iceland, it has gone to Greenland and has sometimes returned to Iceland. It's the great Greenlandic parade when the cod literally becomes so widespread in Greenland that he can't find food there and then walk back into Iceland's jurisdiction for exactly the same reasons that the mackerel is doing there right now. It is foretold that this 10 you have. tons that are on the southern tip of Greenland west may reach 50 of you. a ton over 20 years. I think there'll be a lot more, and it'll probably be within 20 years, maybe 75 of you. a ton quota. So that's what's about a whole lot of greenish fishing roads. However, they lack the skills and skills of the Icelanders in their time. to steer ships. We always brag because we have been born seamen and as if we have built all of this up ourselves. It wasn't so as if I traced my speech earlier. We brought in the skills and management skills for the Faeroe Fleet from the Faeroe Islands. What we're missing from the Greenlandians right now is the same technical knowledge that we moved in. Together they can get her from Iceland. And they also need, I believe, that the technology we have in the sea streets will be introduced in some way in Greenland. For me as an observer from outside, who has sympathy for independence and understanding it, it seems to me that the best way for them to pursue their own markets is to develop a way of dealing with Icelanders. We have Icelanders to do all we can to help this neighboring nation of ours. I'm sorry about the subject, Mrs. President, but I could do it for a reason. Here we are discussing a fishing contract with Greenland, and then I thought it was ideal for me on this beautiful morning, since the Presidential District had never seen a reason to put my controversies on a related subject, to take the distinct part of her that would show off the way of the sea. There are great possibilities, both for the Icelanders and for the Greenlandites, especially for the Greenlands, if they intend to continue on their own course of independence. In fact, I find it hard to find myself in the Icelandic sea mall's data what might really be the best key the Greenlandns can use to open up the door of independence in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u48	Madam President. I think that's what. Even if we take a few moments to discuss these agreements on the seabed with our good neighbors, a senator does not have to apologize. They happen to be on the agenda one by one, the first annual contract with the Faeroe Islands, and then the little product that comes from improved relations between Iceland and Greenland in this area, i.e. A contract for mutual shrimping rights on Dohrn Bank, which is truly an extraordinary contract, is absolutely correct. It is more likely that countries that have not yet been able to communicate with one another in order to catch up with the same group will still remain to provide specific access to each other. In fact, this has been discussed for a period of two years, rather than three years. It was close in 2012 when the contract reached through the gray window, but then you did not completely worry about finishing this case, but it was made a bookup in connection with the contract signed in Narssuaq at the beginning of 2012 that people would continue and the next goal would be to cover the shrimping fishing at Dohrn Bank, which for several reasons can be beneficial for both parties, to have this way, and not least out of the ice that goes on and goes over the middle and may mean that you have to retreat. Green ships come east across the line to Iceland and vice versa. So it is a pleasure and a sign that this relationship has been improving. It is the annual collaborative agreement on the general cooperation of fish industry that has now been signed for several years and on its basis has since been made available to significant sources of Greenland for use in Iceland or countries from sea fishing here. Of course, that's such a thing as ◯ For it's again fishing without contracts, it's actually doing it for at least Some cases of both Iceland and Greenland. But we have thought that on the basis of this two - sided cooperation agreement, we would be accountable to such cooperation. Of course, to a certain extent we make it easier for the Refecters to get hunting experience in these species, which will then meet us again at the table of the agreement and share in the stock market. But I think we're pretty close to the same way that we've probably considered it a good deal to be fair in our dealings with the Faeroeses, so that's just as true with Greenland. There can lie, and already lie vastly ahead of time. Even now, Icelandic fishing projects are in cooperation with greenish fishing projects. Some of the larger fishing industry in Iceland already work with partners or partners who have the fishing warrants on the Greenland side, and some ships from the Icelandic Navy have been sold there in recent years. The future's going luck. The senator, the biologist Aphess, the Össur of Skarphéðinsson, after the cod, will be after much craftiness. Of course, after those warm years of experience, a man has waited a long time for the situation to stretch toward what it was during the decades of the 20th century following the warming of the 1920's. At that time, the cod population began growing at Greenland and was already given from it a monthly supply of similar or even greater quantities than we Icelanders have recently caught. From the Faeroe Islands and from the Faeroe Islands and the Savours, however, they often tell stories about the great flame they experienced in the Greenland Islands and were not quite accustomed to home. Icelandic ships attended a great deal at the Greenland Center. It's an old story and new that profitable fishing won't be easily practiced, except for on the vastly powerful ships of East Germany, different from places in Iceland. So much may be involved in adding energy to our fine neighbors in the west. That's what we've done and should have mentioned and welcomed in the means of an open Icelandic office in Nuuk, which I believe was a significant step in this relationship and that those who were thus honored should be respected. However, it is there and there is evidence of increased emphasis that Iceland and I put forth on it. So perhaps it is a little further beyond the material, Mrs. President, to consider the potential of our friends Greenland to trust more fully under its independence and to get into position not to be dependent on others, especially Dina in the way they are today. When nearly half of the Korean budget comes in the form of a single check from Copenhagen every year, there is a great lack of money. Sadly, the trend over the past few years has not been as positive as it was for a time when the Greenlandites were determined to do this contribution, take on increased assignments, and finance them themselves. Today, for several years, because of difficult circumstances, income from mines or oil crops has now gone uninhabited, and so have other factors. Back to the fish. Of course, it would be extremely positive to see it happen in the years that in such a case, the distant ears would be able to increase their value from their seafruits, moving ahead in that matter. They are very large, especially when it comes to shrimp and gray window, but their entry into the open - sea fishing is very significant, and they come to the point of dividing the green-lenish economy very important if they start to hunt here tens of thousands of tons of Norwegian-islenk ring and perhaps up to 100,000 tons of macro, now less so, as we Iceland know from our books. If the codfish were to be added in an ever - increasing way during the years to come, this would look quite flowery. Of course, it is also a great deal of cooperation to pick up anything other than direct fishing grounds. These include equipment and services from Iceland. Despite all the strong and well - equipped resources, we have been becoming an international actor in the field of selling technology and even whole factories. The largest and most successful of the world have been built by Icelanders in two places, such as the Faeroe Islands, and who knows that Greenland is about to move in an effort to land its sea fishing and to work in factories on land. Probably they would have to be somewhere near the southern tip of Greenland, but the obvious thing is that it would strengthen their position in the fight for hunting rights and increase their chances of making a huge increase of their worth and not dependent on others as they are today to be able to use these institutions. There are exciting times ahead and much to discuss in that regard, but there is reason to express joy in this contract, which is definitely a step in the right direction.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u49	Madam President. I'd like to get a second opinion. On one particular point, a senator giving a great speech. Now the mackerel is pushing through the heat lines, and it is far north, far north, and far north. Apparently with the will of most people, the Greenlanders have got a special greeting, if I remember correctly, about 100 of you. tons. In any case, according to the ocean fishing laws, we cannot allow ships who sail under a green flag to produce their products in Iceland because the trunk is not agreed. Am I right? There was such an incident last year, and then I think about this: It's not the basis that everyone wants to negotiate with him and be willing to sign a deal on the figures available except the Norwegians. The Norwegians prevented this deal from being politically motivated, everybody knows what they're doing, they're naturally waiting for the mackerel to go back and believe he's going back and not wanting to negotiate with him, that's why, the capital, even though there's another cause. Then the question is, Is it reasonable, according to the circumstances I have described, to interpret the law in this way, as it is done that ships who hunt mackerel under the Brazilian flag do not get the product in Iceland when it is realized that both Greenland and Iceland wanted to make a deal on that basis? Should we, then, make ourselves charge that some nation in the world is overindulging in our dealings with us? Is that not something we should consider about changing the law? Is it not an Icelandic law that is used against Icelandic interests, and are we moved by a nation like the Norwegians?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u50	Madam President. Hv. A senator throws into the air a very hot potato, to be honest. As such, coastal countries must take steps to facilitate the application of non-contracted stocks to provide sustainable support. That's a principle. Then, of course, variations from her are possible. The government has certain opportunities to determine how they use that device, e.g. by threatening it, but perhaps by not making it real, trying to make deals. It's probably not a top secret that we've been trying to use this tool for the Russians and their hunting at the Ruthian ridges, trying to pressure them to come back into contracts on the grounds that they are not necessarily assigned to a service in Icelandic ports, etc. As for the Greenland Fishing of Macroil, I think they were primarily taking him only one-sided, sharing a one-sided amount, not on the basis of agreements. They've called it research and experimental fishing, and Iceland has been allowed here for two consecutive years to demonstrate a flexibility in the interpretation of these policies of the Sea Treaty in the sense that it has been permitted to be made here, as it were in research and experimental fishing. True, they are moving on to call this traditional fishing on a commercial foundation. Then another situation that needs to be assessed comes up, how far we are to walk. What helps these things, and I mentioned earlier, is a collaborative agreement between Iceland and Greenland, i.e. That he can be referred, if any. A senator hears, what helps is a collaborative agreement between Iceland and Greenland on the sea streets. We can refer to him as there, and we have specific obligations toward this neighbor and to the agreement, perhaps in his hiding place, more than we would have done about the regulations of the marine covenant. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u51	Mr. President. Hv. A senator is far superior to me in my skills and experience in these matters. I think I'm here for a kind of a course by a dog. Senator. I'm glad he handles this matter, and sometimes he's been very Catholic in it, but I feel that he's moving toward the Lutherans of liberality. Last year like what? A senator came here a ship under a Brazilian flag, sailing to home base. A senator who didn't get to land, and what did the boat do then? It went to the Faeroe Islands and land there. It seemed very strange to me. In other words, the Icelanders were stripped and at home. The senator, however, takes away the benefits that would have resulted from communicating with this particular green - eyed ship, but then it went only to one other nation, which is also part of the Šmal convention and should apply to all the international commitments that we believe we are listening to. I don't know. I think it's a bit unusual. In any case, if this was no longer a research program, it would have a share, which I believe, in fact, they have a silent agreement with all sides of the case, it is in fact, in fact, very much enough to mean communication to the Icelanders on a business basis for such a ship. It is clear that Icelanders and Greenlanders want to negotiate on the basis of what, for example, is the case. The European Union has proposed and men are working on it, but some other goddamn nation that uses bullies and thus has a very clever purpose to motivate us to do so. I feel that it is starting to read the Bible with the merits of a particular ruler of the underworld with horns and claws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u52	Madam President. It is the ancient saying that it will not be so easily released and held. Let us bear in mind that on one side Iceland is very interested in its reputation as a country that fights for sustainable fishing and has been at the tip of action against illegal fishing and sea fishing and so forth. Now I'm, to prevent all misunderstandings, not to talk about it at the same time as this fish of Greenland and our dealings with them or the Faeroes. Iceland has been in this present business over and over in recent years. For a time, we did not allow any countries to collect from strains that were not negotiated with the Eastern Pacific. Then there was a seafaring minister, who suddenly allowed the landing, in fact, mainly in his hometown, and of course, this led to a huge increase in success in the fishing process, e.g. in the grays of East Greece, which again led to a higher share now in Greenland than they would have done otherwise. So we have not always been completely consistent in this. However, it can be reminded of both modern resources that when this ship from Greenland arrived here - which was well - meaning to mark a ship's processing and may have been relevant to the materials, it was not a catch, it was a job, but a successful catch - and when an intelligent ship sought a port and wanted a service that had been translated into Iceland's efforts to deny it. There were many who survived, and our friends were long - suffering. Of course, this is because Iceland has been trying to take advantage of this, but we may have been rather alone in our territory. It's been a lot more freeer in the Faeroe Islands, but, frankly, I don't think they've been doing anything about it because of where men came from to raise for land, and in Greenland, it hasn't been tested at all from their side, i.e. I don't know that a foreign fishing vessel has come up with much access to land. So it's not easy. You can't just say that it's either here or in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u53	V.E.G. President. I explain to the National Committee's Committee's Committee on a proposal to conspire with the confirmation of the decision made by the Joint EEA on the Change of XIII. Annex to the EEA Convention on Transportation. The Committee's opinion is first given on the case and prehistory and not a reason to comment on this, but it is appropriate to be able to interpret the committee's opinion that the actions require common rules on conditions that must be met in order to serve as road transport and access to markets for international population and freight transport. The project aims to promote efficient road transport and to provide reasonable competitive conditions without discrimination. Then, according to our opinion, the types we need are referred to. It is further stated that the range of values of the species was, in fact, restricted to international goods or passenger transport, i.e. such cross-border transport, and therefore they will have limited impact in this country. In Regulation (EC) No 37/2010: Of the worldwide road transport transport, 1073/2009 estimates that the so-called 12 day rule on driver's driving and rest period, which was generally submitted for six days by the Regulation (EC) No. 561/2006, will be restarted, but only in the international driving of a team and plan car. The Commission reviewed that there were discussions between the European Commission and the European Commission on the basis of ideas that the 12 - day rule would apply in general in Iceland, where the limitation based on cross-border cross-country would not be appropriate here because of the country's population. An agreement was made with the Foreign Affairs Committee and the tourism stakeship in the process, but the conclusion was that discussions about adaptation were considered to be a fact of experience. Then there was an assessment of interest that it was possible to adapt to these conditions in this country. The introduction calls for a local legal adjustment and has already been recommended as a bill for the transport of passengers in the country for employment and for a bill for transport by land, which will replace the law of the no. 73/2001, about the transport and cargo of land. The Commission's review showed that key changes will include increasing conditions for the publication of the transport solvents, including The requirement for a person to have a permanent residence in the EEA area, to be trusted, and to have a financial status. Those who have already had a permit for ten years may be excluded from these new conditions. In spite of increased version requirements, however, the rules leading to the need for transport license will not be reached for transport vehicles such as now but only for freight vehicles more than 3.5 tons. The Commission also stated that the transfer of your own products or equipment related to other occupations will not be permissible, but will only be involved when it is the basis for the transfer and charge for the service. The Foreign Affairs Commission proposes that the proposal be accepted. In addition to such articles, under the heading "Apprehensible Writings. " The servants of Vilhjálmur the son of Bjarnason, Elín Hirst, Sigurjónsson the son of Sigrion, Katrín the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, Fearar Proppé, Silja the Gunnarsdóttir of Gunnir, and Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson. Ásmundur Einar Daðason was absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u54	A respectable president. Thank you. President of the State Department for the Commission's Prehistory for the Commission and the information that has been sought for an exception to Iceland, i.e. This doesn't apply to Iceland. I wanted to ask the senator if this was the only option for freight transport, but I did not turn to passenger transport, nor did it affect any such automobiles that come to form with Norwegian into the country or cross with it into other countries of the European Economic Area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u55	V.E.G. President. This 12-day rule, which will now be a six-day rule, will have an effect particularly on passenger transport and will translate into that of passenger transport, which is considered to be cross-border, including when group vehicles come with Norwegian, where the maximum time for drivers is 12 days, 12 days from day to day, but if driving within my own sense, then there will be a six-day rule, i.e. Cross-border only takes effect for 12 days. I don't think that rule has anything to do with this country. As a result, we supported it on the Foreign Affairs Committee and suggested that when the case came to us in the early stages of searching for ways to obtain an exception for us. Our main concern is passenger transport, which may be impossible to replace drivers in the middle of a trip, etc. However, according to our information, the government's efforts to obtain an exception did not result in success. At the same time, it was reported in tourism that they felt that their activities should be managed in a way that this would not be a cause, at least not a factor. In my mind, this is an example of unnecessary rules on the basis of EU rules, but it is a matter of magnitude that there is no reason to allow this to cause a problem in the global context of the European Economic Area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u56	A respectable president. I thank the Chairman for the answers and a number of things that are not reason to make trouble with the overall interest we have of the European Economic Area Convention. But it's a pleasure that this does not have a negative impact for the companies here active in the tourism service. I'd like to ask, though, would there not be any benefit in these requirements regarding automobiles that come to the country, e.g. with Norway, by the hands of foreign companies, with the demands for drivers, household accounts, this maximum time and other factors, whether there is no benefit in the company's efforts to meet the same demands for those who come here with trucks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u57	V.E.G. President. I have a feeling that this will not have a major impact on the foreign drivers coming here. If we view the changes involved, i.e. I think that if they come here with Norwegian, they will be considered to be cross-border transfers, and there are simply more rules for the foreign drivers in the foreign cars than there are domestic. However, the requirements for information and other information there are, and registration and the like may be of any relevance, but I think that it was the opinion of those whose opinions were on the subject that there would be no significant change except for the number of days I changed in my case earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u58	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a proposal to be agreed on by the State Department's Committee on Council Reconfirmation of the Co-ordination of the European Commission No. 29/2015 on the change in XVII. Annex to the EEA Convention on Idea rights. The committee has discussed the matter and has brought in specialists from the State Department and Education and Culture Ministry. As stated in the opinion of this committee, at the recommendation of the Council of the Council, the Commission's authority was sought to confirm the decision of the joint EEA Commission on the conversion of the Agency's Commission on the Agency's Commission's affairs, including the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and the Council on the particular legal use of orphaned works so called. Six months' delay in the EEA Convention to ease the administrative notice was provided on August 25 to 2015. According to the Committee, the presentation of the proposal is in accordance with the requirements for the political treatment of the EEA. The directive requires the use of a particular permit for tasks that are authorly used when their author is unknown or unknown where he thinks he is and therefore cannot be consulted for the use of the tasks. Its aim is to enable European cultural institutions to produce digital copies of orphans to ensure that Europe's cultures do not have a digital gap. The directive contains a definition of what is considered an orphan's work and how it should be handled with a more thorough search for right heads before the work of orphans can be determined. Then there is the basis for mutual recognition between states of such a decision and how courts can end that definition. The directive includes public libraries, institutions of education, museums, archives, movie preservation agencies, and audio recordings, as well as public - service radio stations. Use of the given jobs will only be allowed if they are due to the objectives of the institution involved in its role in the public service. Implementation of the Directive calls for a change in Authorship, No. 73/1972, and as a minister of education and culture, has already provided such a modification bill as 701. The Commission reviewed general pleasure with the proposal, as such sources would be needed to use authors in the public service. The committee suggests that the matter will be agreed with. Under the heading of this magazine, as well as the text below. Councilmen of Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Ásmundur Einar Daðason, Elín Hirst, Frosti Sigurjónsson, Katrín of Jakobsdóttir, and Ottir Proppé. Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir and Össur Skarphéðinsson were absent at the hearing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. Chairman of the State Department for the Prehistory for the Commission's opinion on this matter. I don't know now if I like the use of words in a way that ignores the use of dead things, such as authors. Of course, it may be important to have a new authorship, as well as a number of examples of the fact that people are not in the house that has the right to do something. First of all, I wanted to ask who. The senator, whether or not the issue has been reviewed with the primary answers that have been made by the Minister of Education, now the three members of the Council, probably long after the committee was treated, and whether they have any connection or influence on one another, this design, and then the three prime Blacks that the Ministry of Education put here a few weeks ago, and I know that they are still unsupuled in the committee with which they are treating them. I just wanted to make sure that my right hand knows what the left hand is doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u60	V.E.G. President. As indicated in the committee opinion, this resolution proposal includes the removal of governmental warnings for the planned adjustment of the law. The committee's opinion specifically refers to the law bill at its highest level. Minister of Education has submitted and is case No. 701 at this council and shall be implemented in Icelandic legislation in accordance with the requirements of this Regulation. On the State Department, we do not specifically consider the legal standards, but we do have an assignment. General and Education Committee. However, we have no reason to believe but that the bill submitted by the Minister is fully designed to implement the requirements necessary on the basis of the recording of this procedure into the EEA Convention.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for clear answers. However, in my second answer I would like to step aside from the content of the matter and into the question. A senator by other limitations that might be at the induction site. Then, in particular, I might be looking at the terms of the Constitution of the European Commission on the privacy of the private rights of the Court, which, of course, are more preeminent than the general legal rights of the administration, whether they can be considered here if there is any particular restrictions on the rights of the writers of the authors, or in general, from the need to agree to the owners of the State for using the authors, whether they think that there is something special to be considered in the Icelandic private rights to treat the legal matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u62	V.E.G. President. I don't think there is any reason to worry about that subject, on the administrative aspects of this case, is totally clear that if there is rights covered by private rights, then the rights always go beyond the rights discussed in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u63	A respectable president. I just wanted to draw the attention of the United States of America to the fact that the next issues here on the agenda are mostly made by the European Union. It is a good reminder that our position in connection with the international community is to consider it at all times, before we vote on these matters, that it would be natural for us as a nation to be involved in making a legal code here. We don't. We're stamping it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u64	V.E.G. President. I'd like to call to the attention of the United States Congress that we vote here on a so-called EEA case that'll attract health services across the border. Because we are not in the European Union but are involved in the EEA, we have more free hands in this matter than the EU, and therefore we were able to set similar warnings rather than stiffer than the Norwegians had in this kind of relationship. So it is not quite true that standing outside the EU has taken place. In this case, that is less so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u65	A respectable president. This was an interesting comment, but although some wish to walk in the European Union and even hope that it's the land of dreams, it's over a long time, but some years you don't know. For interested persons, I wanted to bring it here, to a respectable president, that about the first 20 years of the EEA contract, Iceland has only recorded about 7% of the types adopted by the European Union, so that is now no more than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u66	A respectable president. I just wanted to get the attention of the United States of America that every time we talk about the European Union, there's always voices that we're talking about this in which we have no business, it's just to complicate our lives here, it's so much better that we're an independent island nation here in the middle of the Atlantic. I'm simply calling attention to the fact that it doesn't quite agree with what we're doing here. It is important for us, and it is also very important for me as the Europeans, to be able to come up here and face in the front of a world that holds very strong reasons to increase this cooperation but at the same time to stamp legislation that is not produced by the Icelandic Parliaments. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u67	A respectable president. Because here's a lot of talk about the European Union, I just want to ask people to think about who's leading the European Union. Now, in every member of the country, it is public and national representative that they run nothing, extremely small. In fact, this is not the case with members of that country who are in charge that the problem and the main reason for the Democracy is because it is a government that is hard to see who is in charge. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs in particular considered that, fortunately, there is very little that we need to cross the council in comparison with those countries in the position of being trapped in this customs alliance. I think it's true, more dignified president, because some people are always talking in other ways here, that the voice may be heard. I encourage you to introduce yourself to a discussion about the European Union in countries in the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u68	Hail, Vice President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u69	A respectable president, I guess. I'd like to come back here for a second. A senator mentioned the European Union. Of course, the European Union is a symbol and is really just a writer's decision, complete. During the 20 years of the EEA Convention, over 117,000 types have been approved in the European Union, of which some 8,500 have been introduced in Iceland. So it would have remembered us if we were in there and had to bring this whole thing together and fight it. If I recall correctly, more than half, likely about 70%, of all EU enterprises are very unhappy with the rule they're living there. It has gone so far that there are special communicators in the European Union who are going to try to unwind all of this confusion that has been approved. So I just thank God that this process has come to an end.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u70	Mr. President. I take it quietly to review this matter with my confidence. I'll sign the committee's opinion. This proposal will be approved by the Foreign Affairs Committee, where this proposal is proposed. As noted earlier, the name on the proposal has drawn considerable attention. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, countering with what. paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson's son here, i.e. About the orphaned authors. The committee discussed, among other things, whether we could discern the authorship of a work that was not a well - known writer or not. I could mention, for example, that we have novels - quite a few in the middle of the 20th century, up to 1980 - that would still be in author's rights but were signed under cover names. Since Iceland is a very small community, most of the secretaries are known, but it's not absolute. So we have a considerable number of creations under a code name that no one knows who wrote, so we could define as an orphan of authors, but we can't consult writers or the rights of those works to make digital copies of these books, for example, in libraries or in other museums where public access to such works is tried. The idea of this is to define precisely which authorship should be considered an orphan and how to treat it if the author is not known or not found and therefore cannot be copied by these types of tasks that can be done by seeking permission from the known authors of known works. When we went over it for a while. A foreign press committee may not have been an enormous number of examples. But as indicated here, this is to be used in a public service, i.e. to make digital copies in the public sector, such as use for access to education or culture, and to include public libraries, educational institutions, collections, archives, preservation agencies, films, and radio recordings that provide public services. Here are the uses of these orphaned authors in particular in the public service. I can agree that I think it's normal for me to have some rules there. I know it's been a challenge to get this part of the culture into digital form, but I had some questions where I listened to it. The head of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Birgir Ármannsson's son, and there are more questions about the authors who prefer to be unknown, prefer not to say their names. There is a well - known phenomenon in cultures, and especially now. Perhaps the most prominent example is Banksy, who did not achieve anything in the Icelandic media very long ago, but he is a graphic artist who has become very familiar with it but has also written books and made movies. [[Up front.]] For example, the actions of Dr. Banksyr, a writer of books and films, may well fit in with this. That's a hell of a chain that's ever been. Even inventors have sold their works by Banksy - the artist is certainly unknown and have various theories about who he is, whose origins are attributed to Bristol - but those who have bought them to move in are often made on the walls of public buildings or in public space. As a result, I might be inclined to accept this kind of work in public service because it's what it's all about. It's been a special tendency for artists I find at least interesting; this is a thought - provoking point because it's probably on the inside bill from the highest level. The Minister of Education and Culture in the future. I may feel that this question needs to be asked more than that, i.e. Not of the authors who are lost to us, unknown but still as authors, but of those authors who choose to be unknown, how this decree harmonizes with the choice of artists to be unknown, whether or not. As I say here from the General's public assembly, without a thought, I imagine that choosing to be unknown means that you want your work to be in public service and available to everyone without charge, I don't necessarily see the conflict in it. This, I say, is a matter of unconcerned thought, but this is one of the things to consider with the highest level of the bill. Minister. A general and educational committee needs to enter into these issues and this choice, often universally known and with the most interesting work we can see. I mentioned Banksy, but I can also name French graphicist, Blek le Rat. The rat became a mark in his tomb as the most freeliest animal in the city, perhaps we can call it an influential one, but these are all artists who choose anonymity. I think it's important that these questions be considered. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. Foremostly, it's about how we can get our cultural resources to a digital form where public rights cannot be sought. I think it's a positive step because there's something we have to do here on land, i.e. To put our cultural element on a digital scale. There's been quite a bit of work to be done, so as to mention examples in the manuscripts, in terms of Sarpant and various data banks that have been working on, together and separately. Getting these cultures into available shapes for today is a key factor in education and culture. If I remember correctly, we've agreed with a synonym that was about promoting public access to the cultural complex in digital form. I think we should also consider it when discussing these matters, that there will be effort on that subject. It is a big deal and costs a lot of money, even though much has been done in individual museums and a good deal of work was done in it. But signing an opinion on this directive basically means that I agree with that whole thought, but I believe that both of us have issues of opinion that need to be examined. A global and educational committee as well as the need for targeted measures. I can mention, for example, the art world in which writers' unions have been stranded so that digital images could be developed so that students throughout the country can have access to Icelandic art in digital form. This has been in progress for a long time. This is where we need to make an effort to ensure the availability of the public in the country, and, of course, much wide, not just here, because there are no borders in this world, in our culture. I'm not going to extend the discussion on this much more, Mr. President, but I'm going to explain the views I've been considering on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u71	A respectable president. This Regulation and related bill are currently intended for treatment. A top-of-the-art Board of Education raises some interesting questions about authors in general and how we think about writers' status. The fact that orphans have some kind of far - reaching cultural role to protect culture is emphasized by the fact that imaginations and particularly art are not like worldly things, and we are not to think of such things. I wondered, " Although I don't object to the basic thoughts here rather than to what? ' A senator, i.e. To make a digital copy of what we do to protect it, I think it's very important that we do it, leave it behind a few interesting and important questions. One of these questions is: what about non-susceptible institutions, libraries, etc.? Now I would suggest that Mikki Mús, for example, is everyone's share, that is part of our culture. We all grew up with Mikki mús. We all know who he is, and he has some sort of deep - seated significance in culture, both here and elsewhere. This is underscored by the fact that when we look at cultural factors and the laws of authors, I wondered, " Is it not necessary to have some sort of harmony between what public libraries and educational institutions can do and, on the other hand, to different institutions, even individuals? ' I wondered, " What do I see? ' It's for a senator. Now I don't offer any special solution in these materials, and I don't think that the bill should apply to everyone else, but I think it's important that we discuss this question. I wondered, " What do I see? ' It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u72	Mr. President. I kind of got stuck where it went. A senator told Mikki mús, of course not as an orphan of authors but has, of course, become such a capitalistic phenomenon in the culture of which the use of Mikki mús is likely to be a patent. For some of us, Mikki Mús is still just some Danish thing because we first read about him in Danish, but that's not the case, I just got stuck in this. When we discuss authorship, we are not to make a distinction between the creations belonging to a high culture in a classic definition or low culture in a classic definition of it. Of course, there are long out - of - date definitions. This is where we're talking about everything cultural. What this directive takes chiefly is that it is new in the public service; it is defined, in fact, where to do it, and that's the other question. A senator is throwing up. This refers to public libraries, educational institutions, museums, libraries, preservation agencies, graphics and radio services in the public service, i.e. that the material is new in public service and is relevant to anything other than individuals or companies who might choose to use this material in a different way. Now I know it's something that I'm doing and that's what I'm doing. A senator certainly does not agree completely with that, i.e. the treatment of mental rights and of authors when this is an important class issue. Senator. But there, I believe there's a lot of evidence to be there, because these institutions are all meant to work for the public, that they get quite a lot more authority to pass this information to the public, preferably without charge I'd like to see or at least at least with a very modest price, so we'll secure the public access to culture regardless of whether she's an orphan or an author's right, whether she's Mickey Mouse or something else, so I'll tell you now. I may feel that it is different when we see someone who is likely to distribute such material for profit. [[The president calls.]] Such a distinction is made in this directive.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u73	A respectable president. I think it's on purpose and because of lack of time, we don't go out for a profit supply. We can take it completely out of parentheses in this discussion for now, certainly in reply. That's right. A senator names Mikki mús as part of the current cultural requirement highlights another interesting point involved. There are two points I would like to shed light on. On the one hand, the question is why I should not as an individual or as an amateur society hand out orphans in the same way as schools, museums, libraries, and public libraries, etc., mentioned in this bill. Why should only these institutions do so? That's one question. I'm not necessarily saying that it should be, but I think it's important that we talk about it and try to figure out if it's natural that we give ourselves to the general community that jobs that are orphans or that look like orphans are somehow inaccesible to the public, except through public library, educational institutions, etc. That's another question. Why is it only the institutions, but not the public and generals, who are allowed to stay in the database that I expect to be found? I know no answers here and now, but I would be interested in understanding a better attitude. Senator. The second, then, is the question about culture, which is already under the title of authorship, such as Mikki mús. Now Walt Disney is a long dead man, and those who invented Mickey Mouse. On the other hand, there are Mickey Mouse, and other things that are still authoritarian, genuinely part of the cultural element. Even if it is under some capitalist system, it does not change that it is a cultural product. I think there's a little bit of a blow back there. While we always view the authorship as the personal or the author's property, we look to the rich part of our entire universe of culture. [[The president calls.]] There I see a certain tension I'd like to shed more light on. I hope so. A senator can teach us a little more about how he sees these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u74	Mr. President. This example of Mickey Mouse is complex in that it is likely to be heard under the U.S. Authoric Code, which is the European Authoric Code. So I'm not sure we can find a lot of matches between them. Let us take him outside the parentheses in this discussion. The big question as a dog. A senator proposes whether agencies working in the public service will have the privilege of doing these works in excess of others, i.e. Publicity, business and stuff like that. At any rate, I think this is a very important step to getting orphans into access, and the general bioavailability must be through this. Granted, other persons can continue to pay for the use of their actions, for example, it is reasonable to think that these books can still be purchased, such as I mentioned in my earlier speech, the books that were signed under cover, and I have purchased many copies of them as an amateur member of ancient Icelandic crime stories. They've been bought, to be said, probably without any money ever coming to the author, but therefore I support that this is made accessible in another way, i.e. in digital form, it is useful to everyone. At least that's an important question to me. However, I am not ready to go all the way, just as I could hear it. A senator should then be completely opened to this bioavailability. About the orphanes. As I said before, there weren't so many works that came up, they're just a smell of the whole body. What is being worked on and is very interesting is trying to come, and I take only one example, the literary missing of digital form. Then the rights or authors of the work still in the author's rights must be sought, but in general there seems to be a rather light task in Iceland to get such permission, there are exceptions. What is culturally interesting about this is that the vastest part of the work does not move much, for example, in the literature stores of the country in its Physic form. [[The president calls.]] We are likely to be increasing reading these tasks by placing them in a digital bioavailability. [[The president calls.]] Of course, that should be the benefit of all the people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u75	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for the talk may have been in a similar area. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, which attracts the limitation of the specific person for copying the digital form, is whether it is over the head if it is simply a universal requirement for copying. At the same time, I would like to ask the senator if in cases where some of the authors or rights of minds are known and part of an unknown or unrecognized house, or after any incident in such a way that it is not possible to approach it, this could be paid to resolve matters where there are many rights and the will of most or all of them, except to use the task in any way that can be done but can't be handled with them alone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u76	Mr. President. I think in the debates presented here, we are discussing a much larger case than can be discussed in two minutes, which has to do with the big lines and the big debates that have been dealing with brain rights in recent years. However, I look at this step completely independent of the large lines, as an important step to facilitate access on the terms of the public interest. I think that's a good thing. About what question? A member of a number of courts is defined in the directive that there may be many rights to a particular piece of work or to a recording. The directive is that if one of them is identified and located, let's say that only one court official was identified and located, it's all in a very thin language as usual, then the task is not considered an orphan. Although my primary point was to point out a book education example, since I know them best, it is obvious that in the case of audio or films, there are many correctities, that is not necessarily one all - wise writer. It is stated in the directive itself that in the rights which have been identified and located there is a lack of authority in regard to their own rights either because their rights are theirs or because they have been passed on to them, so their legal rights are guaranteed in no uncertain terms. First and foremost, the directive, as I have left it with reading it and working on the Committee, is that it is important to coordinate this approach between different countries, since the definition of orphans has been quite different. In this area, we work together with other European countries, and these rights actually have no borders. Thus, they are trying to match definitions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u77	A respectable president. Just to make sure I understand this perfectly correct sense: If the courts are known, all outside one, the job is not an orphan, so that it is used out of the language itself, but there is in the group one unknown sea, and if all the justice workers outside it have agreed to copy or accept it, doesn't the directive accept that it can be copied without the approval of this one person who has not been identified? And how, if it cannot be used to do so, will such matters be resolved? Suppose they plan to do a radio show that is the author of the play, entitled to the translation, to the translation, to each actor, even to the Heirs of some of the original actors, entitled to the music transfer, etc. and everyone has agreed to a copy, but one of them will not be located or unknown, can't be used to solve it? Then it is the authority here for these people to copy this digitality, is it not possible to provide copies of it once it has been taken, is it only copies of the existing storage accounts?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u78	Mr. President. I'm beginning to feel like a writer's office lawyer trying to cross this, I'm saying that I'm not. As I understand the directive, the rights of the rights have been recognized in a way that is discussed, and then there is one unknown rights, such as the ocean. paritaprevir The Helgi Hjörvar mentioned, the directive should ensure that the project can be copied and communicated. This is what the game is designed to ensure public access to the cultural element. However, it is also mentioned here that, first of all, it is necessary to perform a so - called thorough search, defined very accurately in the directive text, how exactly to perform a search for the unknown rights. Here, too, it is that judges have the right to cancel their actions as orphans by performing and demanding their rights on the job or other protective materials. Rights that suddenly spring forth and claim to be the unknown rightful Sovereign or author have the possibility according to the directive. This could be a good fictional subject, I imagine, the orphaned creation of authors who suddenly came to have a author, if anyone needs a good idea. The answer to a question why. The speaker sums up the question: This is to share these activities with the public. It's the public benefit that should be left behind. Second, if there is one unknown state of justice, while others have granted permission to prevent a project from being placed in a public display for the sake of public interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u79	A respectable president. The theme proposal we're discussing here is linked to a bill that is also available for the council and is further considered for the treatment of the situation. The General and Education Committee, and it's been discussed there recently, along with two other authors, of which, in my opinion, an extension of the protection period is associated with this discussion a little bit, and I'm going a little bit more into it in a few minutes. This proposal is that certain institutions, such as public libraries, educational institutions, museums and libraries, movie preservation institutions, audio recordings, and radio networks, can make digital copies of so - called orphans, works that have been carefully investigated by certain institutions as to who is the author. If the author finds it not defined as an orphan's work, and it can be copied digitally. Similarly, if they appear later, authors are given the option of claiming to be the authors - I look forward to seeing exactly how it is implemented, how they prove they are the authors - and then can get some sort of relief for their work being used. Now I'll say right away that I'm not against this matter, although I certainly want to revise the authorly in principle and to count it in many respects out - of - date, as in the law of our day, whether it be here, in Europe, or in the United States, or wherever. But this EU Regulation and the bill for the treatment of the Council in question No. 701, about the transformation of authors, is designed to preserve culture. It is a very positive, essential objective, and, of course, it has to be possible to do so. But you also need to ask yourself, " Why do I need to be specific about whether the author is available or not? ' This may be a rather drastic question for many, but I still want to think about it. The Mickey Mouse we mentioned earlier is expected to fall under American authorship at the same time. A senator who spoke earlier, and Tinni or whatever, is part of a cultural requirement, i.e. A cultural phenomenon that developed a long time ago and that is probably part of the growing and culture of most people in this room and probably most of today's people, and soon all of us today. You have to wonder why institutions such as public libraries, schools, museums, and libraries need permission to make digital copies of such cultures. Here is a conflict between the traditional understanding of authorship on the one hand and the public interests. When you create a fantasy, such as a song, let's say that I write one song in five minutes on a guitar, the idea is that the song is my private property in the same way as if I had a car or a computer or something like it. What I'm underlining is that it's not like, it's not the same thing, it's not made out of the same material, it doesn't work in it, and it doesn't have the same kind of work in it, distribution isn't the same, delivery isn't like the one who enjoys the job isn't the same. If I have a computer and I use it, I'm using it, but if I'm making a song, I'm probably writing it primarily for others, actually as I personally, if it goes to myself. But if I'm negotiating for others, it's the public who enjoys the project. And when it comes to such arts as music, movies, books, and stories as well as similar, it becomes an inevitable part of the so - called cultural background. There is a tendency between the individual's rights simply to take away this culture or to limit it in some way. Suppose Walt Disney was not going to publish more Mickey Mouse books, now Mickey Mouse was no longer allowed to be part of Western culture. Or if George Lucas would decide the same thing about Star Wars, happy memories, the one who stood up here grew up with, and other fine whales. Senators. Should that be okay? To decide such things should be possible under current rules, now there will be no more Star Wars. Is it normal if we try to examine things from the very beginning that a private partner can decide, that there are no more stories about the Logi geimgengill gang, as is named Luke Skywalker in Icelandic? I don't think it's quite normal. I feel that at least we need to answer the question of how we're going to look at the part of the author's penance, which is the fact that these works are really not just the artist. They belong to the whole culture. Please note that I'm not going out on any justification for how the distribution rate should be, that's another debate. But I think it's important to roll it up. It is not just the artist himself who scatters his stuff that lives in a void, and it would be of no use to him in this way but, if it is gone, nothing. Of course, people need to be paid for their jobs, and it's a business model that works. But in my opinion, all of us have to admit that we are not to think of art as the artist's personal affairs, they all concern us. They are part of the culture and become part of the culture, and we are to respect the fact that it is not only money that governs the world but also other forces, including public taste. I believe this proposal is linked in a certain way to another bill, which is being discussed at the council, a bill dealing with the extension of a mental protection, prolongation of authorism, how long it's worth. Today, there is one interesting thing about the fossil record and the transport rights that it expires, unlike any other property rights. If I buy a computer, I only own the computer. Nothing for 50 years, nothing for 70 years, no bill will be asked to extend that privilege, I just own it, and that way it is until I don't have it anymore because I sell it or give it to it or something. But the Author's Court expires and always increases that protection time. Some say that it is because people live longer. I think that's now mainly because very old and important work is getting close to slipping out of fictitious protection so that Walt Disney and similar companies are finding it harder to defend their financial interests, not their cultural interests, check out, but financial interests. This directive and the above bill also emphasize that at some point this private property must become a possession of the public. One day Halldór Laxness will be simply part of an Icelandic culture and not part of one or none of its ownership rights. We all have to pay off any descendant of a god who can help us enjoy that story and change it if we want to, and reassign it, if we want to, and use it in music and movies if we want to, because it's cultural. It simply is not and can no longer be considered private property. I'm not in itself attacking the concept of capitalism. Rather, I'm pointing out that there are questions such as those that do not apply to traditional property rights, and we should keep in mind when we look at these matters. This point underscores the fact that these factors exist. I asked two questions earlier than that. A member of the Parliament who spoke before about this particular Regulation, first of all, why museums should need special authority from the author in order to make digital copies if a work belongs to culture, i.e. if it is cultural, it must be asked, even if it is not answered immediately. And second, why is this limited to these specific organizations? It is important to remember that there are different aspects of the distribution and use of mental functions, as well as especially lists. It is distribution for profit, which is nothing but distribution to share culture with others. For example, an example, expositing an example just to show what I mean: If I put up a website where I was selling songs after the highest level. A musician of Bubbi Morthens and I would be making money with his music and letting him have no share of the money, that would be anything but if I bought, for example. A medium with the highestv. Bubba Morthen's musician and I were so impressed with his music that I decide to share it. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, because I wanted her to hear that song, it's a good song, but I don't want to buy another CD. It is otherwise to share such with friends, whether over the Internet or not, in order to complicate it a little more, and to distribute material for profit. We in Pirates make this distinction. There is a difference between spreading money and sharing only modern culture with others. Then there is what is sometimes called an illegal download, which is, in fact, in the best sense, no illegally download, the distribution may be illegal, but not self-down, to date. There is also a difference. There is a difference between enjoying the music in the environment and distributing it. For example, you experience all kinds of music if you walk into a place, walk into a place of entertainment, just downtown, or live with a friend, music you never pay for, and in itself do not necessarily have much control over what music it is. You do not walk around and choose what music is in the environment, which once again emphasizes that art is not in nature what worldly things are, which can only be in one place at once. This is different, and we need to think about this differently. Of course, the focus of all of this is, the problem itself that we're all trying to solve, including the Pirats, is how artists can get a fair amount for their work, but we stress that the author's domain is so when carried out is not dependent on joining other people's civil rights, for example, that out town men can look up my IP number online. Then my right to be anonymous on the Internet, which I'd like to say is very important, and the fact that you don't monitor what I'm looking at on the Internet. When I'm in Germany, I always feel a little on the Internet because I need to ask myself, " Who's watching where I'm going? ' I always have to think about it. I know as a technician how this works, but that's the only reason I can somehow comfort myself. If I wasn't a technician, I wouldn't know how anyone would find out that I'm downloading something that I can't download or whether I'm looking at some disturbing political pages or not, which I now have to do and do if I want to. If I wasn't a technician and I didn't realize how technology works in Germany, I'd be afraid to get things online, and that's unacceptable. However, there are ways that you need to go in order to apply traditional ideas about authorhood. The situation is that the Author's right to produce, legal to distribute, and legal things, with the certain conditions that you will pay for it. It differs from material that is simply illegal and justifies police investigation and the presence of the law enforcement system and the righting system and its total cost. And the reason why writers'rights cannot be carried out in the same way as can be carried out, e.g. The ban on violence or pornography, as well as on the like, is that it calls for the legal state, law enforcement, and judicial practices that may cost something. But if you're going to enforce the authorship in the same way, there are only two ways that you can do it. One is to make a huge amount of cost on it, so it would never pay itself, and the other way is to make it easier than at the expense of civil rights, and that's what Piratar and I don't exist. On the other hand, if we find a business model, and they become gradually, which works along the network's information and expression rights, we'd probably be the first group to exonerate it and put in a prime report if it needed it. But right now, we are more involved in a defense struggle because we constantly develop ideas about trying to enforce these old ideas about writers, in an effort to see the quality made from information in the same way as quality made from material, i.e. It's physical, it's worldly. This crystals, reflecting all the debate on the fossil record. It is not without reason that, at least to the public, the author's right, but, rather, a dry and boring subject, has become such an important subject. For good reason, there will be entire political movements around him to revise him. There will not be any political movement to reevaluate the housing market, it is always in the wider context, based on some fundamental principle, such as social justice or something similar. And classes would be the product of achieving social justice and being created. However, due to the basics of society and in the context of the individual interests of artists and intellectual workers, the right of the court will be a cause for the establishment of political movements. And by the way, the guy standing here is a coward, all I know is how to make music, text, and software. Each of us must find a business model that works for everyone and ensures artists and authors that every act of thought is an acceptable fee for his work. That must be the common objective of all of us. But the methods used must also matter. Business models can't be justified just on the ground that it's what men thought 150 years ago, that's not good enough. That is why we should revise it, and we should do it now. This suggestion is emphasized by the fact that there is conflict between the artist's private rights and culture that the public is expected to enjoy. I'm not saying that one thing should simply drum the other, I'm just saying that there's tension between us and we're supposed to respect it, realize that. Other than that, this is the suggestion that I have mentioned as to how to put it. Actually, I'd be worth discussing it longer and better because I'm also an opportunity there. Here's a suggestion to allow copying beyond what would have been considered normal from traditional ideas and that's good, I like it. I'm not entirely convinced that this particular implementation is the most accurate, but I don't see any harm yet in civil rights, I don't see this requiring human civil rights or going to an enormous expense. Of course, I must make comments about the claims that this will not cost anything or will not have any significant impact on the welfare of the State. I don't think that's exactly right, I think there must be some cost simply because it needs extramarital action, as general rule, especially if you're going to try to have an international cooperation on what's meant to orphans and what's not. Finally, I'd like to say at this little time I have, or almost finally, I'd like to put out an idea just to let people think about it in a more broad context. Why is it not established by a central database that postes work from the European Union, an orphan, a true orphan, in which all are invited to use them over and over again? Of course, if it was material goods, such as bread or anything like it, we would do it to save, save costs, so that we would not have to produce more, but could use what already existed. We do not when it comes to writing, because it is our goal, not to use what already exists, but to produce more. And there is another fundamental difference in the way ideas function differently from worldly possessions. All of this must be a reason for us to try to create a setting that takes into account the nature of what is happening between our minds and worldly possessions instead of constantly calling back and constantly trying to view ideas as worldly things. They just aren't. And now that the distribution and some productions are so good as free of charge, it's as good as free to write something down, it just costs time and work, but the equipment doesn't cost much and it's very useful; distribution costs the same as nothing, then we can't build on the same old business models. To say that, I don't like this suggestion at all, but I wish there was more time left for a council to discuss this matter, especially with all the others. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u80	V.E.G. President. I know that pyramids have been very concerned about civil rights, but I have to admit that when they express themselves about them, I'm always half-mad. I am just as confused about this fine speech as I am about to wonder about certain princes. Why should the difference between protection of property rights be made based on what the movie is like, a subject or a material one? There's no hard work in it. I know it's far more difficult to protect the right to possess ideas than material possessions, but if you care about those rights, the same prince's step is, of course. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson speaks of the removal of the exclusive rights of mind when it comes to mental activity, if I understood it correctly, because this is a cultural failure and if I remember correctly, the term was used for the term "general interest. " [[Up front.]] Who's going to decide the public interest? Is it public interest that we get to enjoy the love of mice? I don't think it's a public interest thing. I'm trying to figure out why men make a difference. Is it because it turns to the subject of pirata, or is it really downhill, other than my impressions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u81	A respectable president. Hv. A senator asks two questions. I'm gonna answer the second one first. Hv. A senator proposes it as if it were my idea that property rights in the case of authoritarians should eventually disappear. It's not my idea, it's the idea of anyone who's been up to the idea of authorship. It's been that way from the Bernic Convention, that's how it is in current law and the bill I mentioned earlier, No. 71, it's about extending history from 50 years to 70 years after the death of a author, so time limit is not my imagination. However, it emphasizes that it is normal and has been reasonable in all history to limit time to this particular privilege of private possession, I refer to the history of that subject. Of course, he should disappear for the same reason as that, for example, a Berblinh story of sooner or later should be available to all and could be distributed, I would expect. I want to ask you why. In order to explain to me how he sees this differently: Who should pay to distribute a Brennish-Nvili story or Gísla's history of the son of Sur? In terms of differences in property rights of mentality and property over secular things, there is a difference between information and worldly things. The difference, for example, is that I'm here with a magazine, giving the impression that it's something of value. Now it's on this side and not on the other side. If I take it and put it here, it's on this side and it's not on the other side. If I could make one 18-inch pizza with pepperoni and finish and feed it to the whole world, I would, if it didn't cost me an extra one, and then they wouldn't have to be stressing about taking off my pizza because there's enough of it, for the same reason we don't pay for the oxygen -- Still then -- because there's enough to do it for everyone, there's no shortage. Economics' foundation is a shortage. That's what I learned in economics in 101, happy memories. That is why we have money, which is why we have values, because of lack of it. [[The president calls.]] There is a key difference between secular things and information, however, because information can be copied with no expense at all. I suggest that's a fundamental difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u82	V.E.G. President. Of course, I realize that when an artist is dead, or the person who deals with the act, there's a time limit on the rights of the land, on how long he is active. But, hey. paritaprevir Hrafn's Helgi was talking about men in their lives, to make George Lucas, that he could now stop producing, that we can't see Star Wars films, which I've certainly never got to see, that's absolutely accurate. It's the real right that I'm talking about, when the author is alive, because it was discussed that there was a cast of culture here, and then Georges Lucas's rights should not work any longer at all. I think we're gonna be on the Prince's Tip, at least. when the authors are alive, to say that the private right of property is clearly active, whether it is a subject of thought or something else. It's very important, and that's what I'm trying to talk about. I thought I heard from him. A senator that it would be impossible to follow this in technology now, impossible to have any law enforcement officers to defend the rights of authors, but it was all right to have a lot of law enforcement to prevent pornography, etc. Both are in violations, both of them are punishable. We cannot make a distinction between what is broken and what is done. If it's a crime, law enforcement authorities have to do it, like all other offenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u83	A respectable president. Maybe I wasn't completely clear enough about Star Wars before, I can totally handle it. But an author's right not only works that, for example, he's trying to spread the first Star Wars, because that's not what I was talking about, but that's what Star Wars is in itself. You couldn't make any more stories about the Logi geimgengill gang. I couldn't make any more stories. I couldn't have spent my time on it. That's it. You can't do that. In case of a moment. A senator does, or I'll be charged af George Lucas, for property reasons. [[Up front.]] There is something that would be worth discussing a little more than that is not the focus of what I'm saying. In terms of the fact that the right to possess mental powers is very important, I agree with that. For example, when it comes to opening software, one of the rights of authors is necessary to say something about open software. For example, if I have software under the condition that if they change it, they'll reassign it, it's based on the fact that I have a brain right to issue that order. As I say again and again and I've told you from the beginning, the piranha is not against the author's rights, we just want it to match the technology that it is in real life, not the way it is in the Democratic princehood where there's plenty of money and justice care is safe and cheap enough because it isn't. When it comes to pornography, I was especially referring to child pornography or to violent pornography, where victims of violence exist, which is different from pornography that is relevant to humans in daily life. Actually, I don't want to go out in this discussion about the definition of it. It's the same story when it comes to pornography, where you're willing adults, you can't stop it online, but, unless you have two ways, there are two ways to do it. One means that there is an indiscriminate cost to law enforcement and justice, and the other involves shortening the ways and reducing the requirements of law enforcement and rights that we take for granted, i.e. by taking civil rights. I suggest neither of them is available. Then there's nothing left but reevaluating writers... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u84	President. I would have chosen that this case would have been taken along with a similar case on the General Information and Education Committee. I have to complain only about the work here, I find it very strange to be taking such an EEA case that is in direct contact with a case that is being discussed in other committees, then looking for opinion from the committee, or just overstepping the responsibility of the case on the Committee that has found it relevant to such matters. I suggest that this particular case -- if I may ask the senators to do so well and close the door here in the side room, I have no great deal of splashing, it bothers me. I would like us to postpone this case and take it along with the case of the Universal and Education Committee on Authorism. The reason is that we have delayed the value of singlemates, which may be controversial in Europe or are in special treatment here at the Council. We were well remembered on the Foreign Affairs Committee to postpone the legalization of data right here via the EEA Convention, that was well, because the number of sentences in different European countries and in the European Court has been clearly declared and found to be non-statutory, as they have been carried out and carried out under the EEA Directive. The reason I mention it in this context is that there is a great danger that we will be trapped in some frame before we complete the legislation that is being treated in a General and Education Committee. You see, I've been paying particular attention to the basic policy of Pirata, but I'm sure there's more of these cases involved in this, that it somehow overlaps between committees, and maybe we haven't made sure that the extras or the opinions we feel need to draw attention to and even try to secure our special status are taken into consideration. To the bill itself. [[Senator sings.]] ▪ Happy published by Jehovah's Witnesses to you, luckyly published to you. - Now I was doing a festery, did you know that? This song is bound to an author's right to 2030 according to the Warner Music experiments, and it is bound to the author rights of Europe to 2016. It's amazing with this kind of song that no one connects to author rights. So I could technically see, because this is the public scene, be fined, or have to pay $700 for taking these two lines from the world's most famous song because I did it in English. But I don't know exactly what it's like if it's moved out of European Union on Authorism. I take this particular song in particular because everyone assumes that everyone is allowed to use it, that's somehow something people assume is almost in the public interest to be used, strangely that they need to charge about $700 for singing this song, or if there's an accident in a story or something like that. But this is the jungle we live in today, that very large author-friendly profits have really been made by diving and searching for ways to often purchase questionable authors, as in this case, can be found in Wikipedia. But I think it's one of the weirdest things, and I couldn't believe it until I first heard it and checked it out. I was surprised to learn that the writers' union could become such an enormous capitalist. I know that birthday cakes in some bakery in the United States were taken and destroyed because something was inappropriate there on birthday cakes for children, which is something special. Let's get to this. This is an interesting case in itself because it could have been solved if we wanted to ensure that the authorship of orphans is not abused by such large sources. For example, if you go to Camden, London, there's a hell of a selection of T-shirts sold with Banky movies, which is one of the most well-known sources who chooses to let his work be an orphan. That may never be worth Banksy's price, but people are profiting from selling his ideals. One good way to make sure that people do not benefit from the thinking of others is simply to take all these orphans and put them under the so - called CC, or CL, glycolleft. You can also learn this by going to Wikipedia. CC goes out on it, for example, let's say that you want to hand out a photograph you've taken or poetry, I'll do it with my poems, for example, that everyone can share my poems as long as they don't profit from it and that they can write the poem. I've been doing this since I started publishing my poems on the Internet in 1995. Yet, they are not yet orphans. But if we were to ensure that, as well as individuals, everyone who wanted to tell them, and that is what gets me a little bit on the bill, that the idea behind these solutions of orphans is that they are creating an enormous amount of blunder around this, an overexploitable system that is even expensive, which means that it will cost them access to these data for schools, students, scholars, or investigators. I think we need to learn from experience, that a huge and complex exchange for access to information or culture is not the future. So I find the bill and the ideas behind it, both in this EU case and in the general and educational committees, to be a little old-fashioned and out of shape with the time we live in. One way to heal both orphans and other works that come from the rights of authors is to give many people a brilliant idea, including Google. Google was at one time copying books that had come from an author's rights and had succeeded in obtaining or using some form of legislation, so they obtained the authorship of the copy. But others who wanted to copy it, such as. The Internet Archives currently available on the Internet was suddenly confronted with the fact that they were not allowed to copy jobs that were orphans, and particularly jobs that were no longer in the Author's rights. It's a form of disorientation, I think, and there's some way I don't like it. That is why I hope that when these laws are reviewed to ensure, for example - this adjustment in itself is not bad, but it could only be much better, which is all too common with laws written both in the EEA and among us, it could be much better in the sense that we could get away from the blunder that is being created with this. I hope that it will be specifically mentioned in this case to ensure that the author's right is not put on copies of orphans. Since we have come to a place where we speak of cultural value, for example, one thing that we have completely screwed up here, and unfortunately not only here but in many parts of the world, that is that there have been no targeted stored, except perhaps in the past, I don't know five, seven years, on cultural values that are on various websites that have been made and are intelligent as cultural as well as cultural. So there are a number of factors that require much deeper discussions on the committee. Unfortunately, it has been difficult for pirata to attend a meeting at the Foreign Affairs Committee, where these matters are considered because we are so few. The one standing here is always meeting in another committee at the same time, but I hope to what. The head of the committee takes into account what I have presented today. I reiterate that I suggest that if someone has not already been assigned to review it, when in place of a universal and educational committee, it would conflict with these laws to simply put CCs on this rather than create complex and complex, multi-level databases and processes. I would've liked this case not to have been on the agenda until it's been resolved, and to vote for the bill that lies on the General and Education Committee on the same thing. Then I would like to agree with and encourage other members of the council who have the case discussed to listen to the tremendous talks being given at ease. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and why. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. Although they talk about different factors, there are points that were shown in their talks that are worthy of consideration when the matter is settled here at the council. I wish, President, that there will be a check on whether the case can be taken off the program and not a vote until the case is resolved on the General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u85	V.E.G. President. In view of the last decision why. Jónsdóttir You may want to recall that this case has come several times to the council in the early stages, i.e. A case came here first, I suppose, in 2013 into the so-called 2 stret. EEA contracts are presented to the Parliament. Then it was addressed to the Foreign Affairs Committee, and it was sent to the General and Education Committee that did not comment on it at that stage. Then this came back to the Foreign Affairs Committee when it was due to be recorded in the EEA Convention at the time of the so - called Article 3. The process. Then a special presentation was held on the scene of the State Department, and the case was settled, in fact, mainly on the basis of the earlier coverage. Then, in fact, two cases enter the council. On the one hand, it is this synoptic proposal that includes the reduction of administrative plans for the induction of this case and that is what we are discussing today, followed by the Minister of Education, with the bill now for the treatment of the General and Education Committee. This matter has been discussed at various levels. I'm just calling it up because I don't think there's any reason to wait on this matter until the other case is closed, i.e. The induction bill. This body of interpretation suggests, not the final outcome, but only that it is authorized to make the adjustment of the bill. Secretary of education includes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u86	President. It's nice to have a detailed procedure on the council. I'm not complaining about the treatment of the matter with the State Department at all, but as mentioned at the beginning of my speech, I was pointing out that this EEA case could be fixed, so the committee, which, in turn, gets a bill called the EES principle, maintains the matter from A to A. That's what I was pointing to at the beginning of my speech. I hope, and I sense that there is a certain will among members of Congress to change only the process. Well, hopefully on the autumn day, this will be revised. The only thing I'm afraid of is sometimes when a job is being done that people gain a little deeper and better knowledge of things. I have found, in the discussions that have developed with this committee, that my understanding has deepened considerably and that there have been some guidelines that one would have made in previous stages. As a result, I wanted to point out - it's probably too late to bring something into a report on this particular case, but then at least it points to an international and educational committee that when the other case goes to a final payment there to make sure that in that bill there is somewhere that it is not permitted to write a copy of the work that is now to be made available, because it means that it will be less available to the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u87	Mr. President. I think I can totally agree. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir says that there are certain aspects of this EEA job process that we could revise in the light of our experience now that we were in the last half of the season. In fact, the arrangement in the EEA has been a little longer for the people, most of the last term, I think that men also tried to follow this procedure, so there's no experience in how this works. In some areas, I think we may be spending too much time pushing paper between us. I think we have to face the fact that in some cases we are doing this without even going into the matter. But I think, and I agree. A member of the Parliament, that we should be assigned to the Foreign Affairs Committee - likely to be the foreign Commission to take the initiative, but the prime committee would likely have to do the same - examine this procedure. It should be our goal to make it easier for us to consider material matters that really matter, and actually can be influenced, that we spend less time considering a case that in itself we will not move on. Somehow, we need to create a filter in order to sort it out. I don't have here, that's how I'm doing here, because I'm standing in this chair, the answers on my hands about how we're supposed to do it, but I think we must do it so much better than we've been doing and maybe get more out of the work we do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u88	President. We're gonna go for a second. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year is often agreed on a procedure in committees, and I am very glad we agree on finding a filter, perhaps even having a subset; in a global and educational committee, there is a subset that reviews a government application. Those who find special joy and joy to read through the EEA could be there, it could be a disgrace for bad senators, if I strike back. I agree that we need time to analyze matters that are truly important. I'm not impressed with paper transfers just to show that you've been moving some papers, moving some information, and then there's very little you can do with that information. I think it's an incredible waste of time, and I'm much more interested in making sure that this subgroup could channel these matters to the professional committees and leave them responsible for all the way, so that not always being used by a foreign committee as some kind of jumper in these cases. It's just that if we admit that things can be done better, we have a way of doing things. I just think that's the best thing to do, and I hope that we'll make it across the street.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u89	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. The speaker's speech, as well as thanking her for her singing, even though he was in violation of the penal code. That caught my attention. A candidate made comments to the fact that this program is cut out of context with two other cases of authorhood for the council. I'm just here to get a better picture of this. Is it a matter of both the General and Education Committee? And I wanted to know the field of these three cases, what's going on there, so that we can determine if it's not normal to grant the senator's request that all of this be done together. When the matter is scheduled at the council, it is reasonable that we as members of the Parliament try to get a complete picture. We are also many here in the hall who are not in the committees that deal with various issues; we are naturally the best ones for the issues mentioned in our committees; therefore, it is important when you are observing the discussion that it is as complete as possible. So I wanted to know what the content of the matter is that the senator wishes to be on the same page.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u90	President. There's been quite a kaos at this workplace in the past few weeks. Yesterday, an agreement was made to take a very controversial case off the program and put an undisputed subject on the program, apparently all members of the council have seen the big program, so that it would have been very good if we senators could have been allowed to see the program today when it was being negotiated because it is very objective how things are not being handled. [[Take it up to most of the time.]] As in Pirata's case, if we just have an audience in the committee, we must not bring in the committee's members' party if, as a result, some cases here that we are simply not allowed to enter a committee party because we're just agents, and I understood that it was only taken into account by committees, when it was decided, whether there were differences or not, just to be kept in place. But as for yourself, there's a matter in the General and Education Committee about exactly the same thing. This case allows these provisions to be taken away and allows orphans to be made available in public service. I think it's a little strange to be discussing this case here, it was actually supposed to go straight to vote, but we didn't know until we saw the program today, and it's being done on exactly the same case or implementation on this committee. What I'm afraid of is that there's a gap between us. It's just a good government thing to do. Then I'll explain the second thing to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u91	I thank the senator for the answer. Hv. The head of the State Department handled the procedure in these EEA matters, how they enter the committees as 2.g. case and then form the council mishap to authorize legal action. In this case, the matter is to be said at the same time during the council. Often it happens that when the bill comes in here, the vote is long over. In the case of national health care services, the Ministry has provided a rather complex legal bill, almost prior to the Senate resolution proposal and in a very controversial matter that requires considerable overcrowding and has a vague impact on the bioavailability of individuals according to health care and the uncertain impact on the health - care costs. It only shows that the political interest is so great that the induction is no problem. Therefore, I do not object to this petition by the senator that this is at the same time on the program, but it is the harmony between the Senate resolution and the bill. Sometimes they come a long time before. Now they are at the same time, and sometimes the agitation are so intense that, although rarely, the legislation is introduced that the standards are almost before the votes that allow them to come. But I'll just wait a little later on for an answer about the writer's union and thank you for the answer so far.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u92	President. The issues of the General and Education Committee on Authorhood are very different in nature. This per se case is good, I'd just like to make it clear if we could add, for example, that the writers should not be put on writing and that the booth around it will not be so expensive to get access to this sieve that should be in public service or in what is called the '-public domain'-56. The other issue, which is really very controversial and is in the General Education and Education Committee, i.e. ... abouta penance,is completely different. It has to do with extensions of the author's rights after you're dead, which are not about to be useful to an artist in an art form unless it has some survival we don't know of and is really only for these great courts. They have somehow tried to justify this amazing act - I'm just in a speech, I have nine minutes to answer - so it doesn't hang out in this convergence. I think we really need to take a good look at how we're gonna win this EEA thing and fix it in the fall. In this experience, I have found that many times and times have come up with issues that we either cannot learn well enough because they are not in relation to the debate, they are lost a bit on committee, while the professional committees have much more grounds for taking a deeper top point. So I'm worried about this kind of thing. In itself, this case is not bad, but it can only be much better. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u93	Mr. President. Just to start by answering what was asked about them there are three cases, no. 700, 701 and 702, of the Universal and Education Committee, which is the Act, i.e. An orphan's work on longer protection recordings, authors' private rights, contracts, etc. I agree with what. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir that there may be just a reason to rethink the procedure and whether these EEA rules, which we would like to do, are also taking part in a professional discussion of the committees. In fact, it is quoted here in a committee list in the rest that this introduction calls for a change in the law of authors. In itself, I think it's a more reasonable procedure. That's what happened to you. The head of the State Department then presented the case here and was given the review of the General and Education Committee. That wasn't done right now. We can assume that there may be new members of the committee, that there are not always the same people there. For example, I think it's been informative to go through this regulations only. Now we're dealing with these three cases in the General and Education Committee, as I said, and I hadn't read this directive. I think that there's a lot of things I can really appreciate, so I think it would have been really good to read it together. I'm not going to have a very long story about this, but I just want to think out here and think about some factors. I don't know if there's any reason to simply postpone this, but it's very important that we on the General and Education Committee have what's been presented here in mind and then try to make the changes we believe are right to correct the law behind this. I think this case is a really good thing to do. In the 3rd. You are starting to talk about a digital program. It turns out we're not particularly fit in Iceland with our digital cultural heritage. We left greens have repeatedly pointed out the need to expand our budget. We made a case, including... On digital language, in the fall council that was approved. We'll see if there's any money in it. That is not in the case of an agreement. This is especially about orphans. As mentioned at the outset of this case, women have written through the years under the title. I was thinking, because it was about poetry, that women often produced poems long ago, which were not about much, and they often did so under cover names and even men's names. Of course, there is little land, and people could discern who was involved, but they will not always be. That's why I think it's important for me to get through. It was said of art, photographs, etc., making it available for students in digital form. I also think it's important, because it's, like here says, movie, audio and media and audiocassettes. It is important to have it accessible, e.g. teaching if we want to have modern teaching methods, where we work more and less through the Internet. I think it's good. I agree with what is stated in Article 16 of this Directive, which says, by permission of the President: The Member States shall ensure that local organisations will keep records of their extensive search and that the results of such searchings consist mainly of results to be considered orphans in the sense of this directive, as well as information on the change in status and use of these institutions on orphans, will be collected and put together and made available to all the public, especially by documenting the relevant information into the online database. Later, says: ▪... allows for the establishment of a special online database for the Community to store this information and make it available to all the public in a transparent way. ◯ The relationship, I don't know if it's the EU or what it is, but I agree that there's a question whether it's gonna cost something, whether it's for school, the State or anyone. I don't think that's very clear in the articles I've read about this subject and would have liked to have seen it more clearly because it says, among other things, in the review by the president of the Department of Authors, by permission of the President: ▪... it is worthy to mention that the directive has been criticized for not making enough use of cultural institutions. In particular, the requirement for a thorough search has been a thorn in the eyes of many because such a thorough search is costly and time - consuming and does not allow the arrangement to be used for cultural institutions to use a large number of activities. Those handling the case seem to have the impression that this is due to an unassigned cost in the synonym, at least not what I have read to understand. It then points out that in the Norwegian Author's rights, there are laws that make it easier to perform this for cultural institutions that want to use such museums in their collections. It turns toward a set agreement on mass use of activities in museums. That's exactly why we were talking about these matters together, taking up such a bill in a headline, as stated in Article 5. bill of a change in writers' law. I think we need to keep that in mind and look that way. I think a General and Education Committee needs to ensure that the induction does not result in additional costs for these institutions. It is said, though there is some confusion about how many works are involved. According to a review published by the Chairman of the Cabinet Committee, about 12% of films fall into the group of orphans and a report on the subject is spoken of as far as 5◯50%, so the number of these cases is very uncertain. They say it's up to 90% of photographs. In view of the increased use on the Internet and images distributed there, it is very important to cover this. I didn't mean to keep it any further. I just wanted to come in on this. I think these matters need to be discussed. What I was thinking was, we'd have to look at the cost of this, so that schools wouldn't be affected. I agree with what it says that when it comes to what is called an internal market and that it is better to have a common approach where we in Europe have rules of approach and cooperation with these orphans. I have a lot to do with this discussion here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u94	V.E.G. President. I recommend a board of members on a bill to legalize your social security insurance insurance policy, from the welfare committee. The committee has discussed the matter and has met a number of guests. Reports were received from the Allied Union of Iceland, the Alliance of State and Towns, the National Socialist Association of Iceland, the Percontinental Protection, the National Association, the National Medical Insurance Agency, and the State's workforce. The bill is part of a global review of social security laws, No. 100/2007 and are submitted along with a bill to legalize social security legislation. It is intended to provide the current penalty laws on accident insurance in separate laws without making changes in them in order to make the legislation more accessible. It is also designed to facilitate its internal review, but provisional review of the law should be made within two years from its intake. I'm going here for a little bit on the TV accident. The 2nd issue, 1st. Section 5. The bill says that by an accident, it refers to a sudden external event that causes injury to the body of the faithful and does without his will. The definition is in accordance with the current definition of the 2nd issue of Article 1. Twenty-seven. The definition was criticized for the committee. Criticism focused mainly on the separateness of an event. It was concluded that because of any accident that resulted in physical injury, each year's pay was not paid for, such as falling or overload. It would also cause such accidents to be often reported, which made it difficult for them to gather statistical information and prevention. If so, it would not be in accordance with the international definition of accidents used by the International Work Office and the European Union. The committee has concluded that a review of the problem was made by the law. The Commission believes, however, that there is a correct basis for the material revision of the premium insurance insurance insurance insurance policy, although it is important that the changes in the definition of the accident concept be well considered and explained and appreciated. So the committee does not suggest a change to the 2nd issue of 1st. Section 5. The bill. On the subject of indirect material changes of the bill: Iceland's health insurance, it pointed out that the bill was indirectly producing chemical changes because there was a lack of regulations now in VI. section of the Social Security Act and of the Social Security and Accident Insurance Act. In addition, there would be some uncertainty about the interaction between accident benefits and social security pensions. The committee suggests three changes to the bill based on the comments. On the one hand, it is suggested that after 13. The bill will have two new articles, 14 and 15. .......................... The first article will focus mainly on the current sections 2 and 3. Section 48. Act on social security. The second article is based on current 2 mg. 45. par. 53. g. 2 mg. 54. g. legal on social security, and as it is required that the pay of an early accident pension should be carried out by law on the expiry conditions according to the current interpretation of 2.mg. 53. g. Act on social security. On the other hand, it is suggested that the 23rd floor be held. The bill adds a new paragraph to stipulate a law on social security benefits as appropriate on the points specified there. 2nd and 3rd. There are already laws that refer to health insurance laws, social security laws, and social assistance laws. Such measures are unfortunate, for they make the law less acceptable. However, the committee feels that it is not proper to make further adjustments, expecting that the details of the regulations will be among the factors that will be reviewed in accordance with temporary requirements in the bill. Other motions include: 2nd matter, Article 3. The bill is mistakenly referred to Article 11 and 12. Instead of 12 and 13. The committee suggests that this should be corrected. The committee proposes that the amount of money is in Count 11 and 13. The bill will be updated in view of the changes that have been made on the budget from the bill's donation to the 69th paragraph. legislation on social security, as per the Regulation on how to improve the social security and social assistance provided for 2015, No. 122/2014. The 20th requirement was made clear. The bill, of national rights, would be blurred in part. The Committee suggests a change in the article based on the comments made by Iceland's Medical Insurance. The Commission suggests that the law will go into effect on 1 January 2016 in accordance with the Commission's proposal for taking a bill to legalise a change in social security and bill to legalize the health committee. Suggestions were made in the reviews and found in the Committee on several other chemical changes, including those regarding the improvement rights of accidents during trips to and from work, separation of terms and employment diseases. The Commission feels that this approach will be taken into account in a financial review of the social security laws and will therefore not make a suggestion for changes to the bill based on them. The Commission suggests that the bill will be adopted by the adjustment proposed in a special Senate document. Under this heading, write why. Councilmen Ingadóttir Ingabjörg, Chairman of Inga, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Ásmundur the son of Friðriksson, Elsa Lára the daughter of Arnardóttir, Guður the Guðbjartur of Hannesson, Birna the daughter of Kristjánsdóttir, Páll Pálsson, Páll Valur the son of Björnsson, and Steinunn the daughter of Þóra Árnadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u95	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill to set up an accident insurance policy. It's one of three prototypes that's kind of armadad. The two primes are the bill for changing the social security law and the bill for the legal decision-making committee of welfare matters that are being merged by decision-making committees on one decision-making committee. Now, in these three cases, the welfare committee is not exactly going along. The accident insurance section has all the committees in agreement, but when it comes to the social security and decision-making committees, we have not agreed and the minority has a special opinion. You can say that this is a bit of a strange situation because in the accident insurance that I'm going to get closer to right after, it would certainly be necessary to make some changes, to change, but it's not done that at this point there's a preliminary law review here; it's done to take the accident insurance out of the Social Security Act and put in a special law, that chemical changes should not belong here, there's a change in the law, and it can be bought as a reason. You might say: Okay, it would have been better to make these changes now, but let's take some time for the material changes and take them after two years. But then it comes to a social security bill. It is setting goals into the law, a technical bill that is being fixed for the entire set of laws, all of which come suddenly. These include the location of the National Insurance Agency. Now a minister wants to decide for himself where to be, in fact, with the director. This government has begun to announce the positions of the directors in five years, although they do not necessarily want to quit; the government's institutions are under pressure and the independence of the presidents or the bank bankers or who they are. However, it is in agreement with such directors that the Minister will determine that the institution, which may include 1/7 part of the Icelandic government's budget, is transferred if this is possible without the Congress's consultation or decision; it is a subject change that the greater part is prepared to do. The same is true of cutting prisoners' rights. However, there is now a review of the social security rights. We in our memory have suggested that prisoners and their terms should be included in that revision, which is very difficult to deal with, when discussing the issues and rights of a group as ill as prisoners, not having the overall picture of their position and going into actions that are unwilling, but contrary to burdensome, and as the only rational change. So it's beginning to matter to you if you're ready to support a bill that's not on the schedule but the next bill, which is in the same package, is likely to be making changes. There's a little bit of a pain in it. And there is also some disagreement on the decision - making committees, and this is the case if that is the case. But with the accident insurance, they're being placed in a special law column. We, the members of the United States, the left green and bright future, will sign this opinion, too, and we'll agree with that. But I wanted this speech to include only the desired changes, especially on the job board but also on the part of the labor movement, the changes needed to be made to the revision to be made within two years. The workaholics have important comments, important in the sense that they are responsible for protecting people in the Icelandic labour market and for their legal status and for the changes that may contribute to our better information about accidents and disease, and thus facilitate analysis of where a pot is broken in the security issues of the Icelandic workplace. As the work board points out, their primary purpose is to prevent work accidents and related diseases. Of course, the law on accident insurance will accept it when something like that has happened. The workforce also suggests that the definitions are as broad as possible to reach all the physical trauma that people may experience at work, and of course they also have a spiritual impact. The work programme points out that by having a good record of work accidents and employment problems, the costs will be apparent, and they will, in themselves, encourage prevention. Second, the Work Programme points out that detailed information on job accidents and employment disorders is important and that, for example, they provide information on the number of accidents and causes and where they take place so that the Agency can take action to prevent the recurrence of work accidents or employment diseases. The workforce has a definite definition of job accidents in its cookbooks. I'm going to read here the definition of the workforce, which is this: ▪ A work accident refers to a sudden, unexpected event involving work that causes injury, health damage, or death to one or more people. This is a sudden, unexpected event, and as the work programme points out, this definition is consistent with the definition of the International Employment Agency, the European Union and the Social Security Act in Denmark. But when we reach the definition of the law - and it comes to the material factors that need to be changed, we say: ▪ An accident refers to a sudden external event that causes injury to the body of the person insured and happens without his will. Instead of referring to an unexpected event, they speak of an external event, and everyone can see in his mind that there is a big difference. This suggests that when someone's putting up a door in a new building and they take on the shoulder, it's a sudden surprise, but it's certainly not an outside event. So in the sense of the law, such a work accident is not subject to reform. It's a great deal of interest to change this definition. According to the work programme, a definition stressing the exclusion of external events per year of work accident in which there is an over-experience of the body, which has been estimated since 2007 to be between 55◯97 each year. There's a considerable number of people who don't get benefits from work accidents. It also makes it possible that when someone gets involved in an accident - and it can be a serious accident, even though it is not an outside accident - that leads to disability, of course, they are trying to define people into the law, the accidents they have been experiencing. The work board points out that this may lead to an increase in external events and, therefore, misreading the factors most important in accidents. Then we come to see the job problems and the workaholics want to set up a regulation that determines which job problems are considered to be responsible. Legally, job disorders are medical announcements to the workforce, but they point out that these announcements are not very effective and are concerned that there is no adequate picture of employment problems and their scope in Iceland. The review says: On average, less than 20 employment diseases have been reported annually to the Work Programme. They compare Icelandic to a dance market, statistics from there. Of course, it's never accurate, it's not exactly one labour market. If we look at Danmerk and take into account the size of the company's workforce, it is expected that there are about 250 cases per year due to a job related health problem, even causing disability that is not on the work board. The work programme says: With this in Iceland, workers are less than workers in other countries and in other neighboring countries that we would like to compare with, where active employment security is based on the effective system of reporting employment diseases. The work programme points out that in order to stimulate or increase registration, it is important to improve employment conditions. In this way, you will actually bring out the security and labour - related health of people in the Icelandic labour market and encourage them to try to reduce the risk of paid people because of job accidents and employment diseases. It was particularly interesting to have this meeting on the work board, and it is worth considering that we do not want to put ourselves next to the other northern nations when it comes to professional security in the sense of health; we do not want to sit at a table like the rest of the northern nations. That is one of the laws that must be entered in the revision, which is to be available after two years. But we believed that in view of the fact that this setting is only changing the law, it was not supposed to be a chemical change, we could accept it, because there's a provision for this review. This suggests an increase in the number of accidents a day's pay, and that increase is by no means satisfactory. We're raising the amount by 50 bucks. A day, by the way. I requested an overview of the development of accidents days from 1994 and unemployment improvements. It was then compared to a pay number for me. It turns out that in 1994 a unemployed person received a $2,141k. A day in reforms, but the expenses were 666, about one third of them. By 2014, the unemployment rates had reached 8,500. The average number of accidents was 1,677 per day, and that is less than one fifth. The Visita that went from 100 to 397 for unemployment insurance went from 100 to 252 before the accident money. For some reason, the trend in accidents money has been very different from unemployment insurance. Here it is being raised by 50 K, which is almost perfunctory, but in the mind that the increase in accidents has always been smaller, and this is something that must also be considered. It was noted, which is a little funny, that accidental spending will pay the person if the salary goes down, but if pay stays, the payment will go to employers. It's financed by insurance, and it's remarkable that many people seem to think that everyone has a steady job, is secure. That's not how it works in the Icelandic labour market. A lot of people don't have fixed jobs, they don't get steady jobs. The vast numbers of unmanned and highly educated people do not enjoy the security of having the right to pay in sick or such cases. Loneliness and contractors, people who don't care about it at all, people only get these accidents money because nobody pays their wages unless they earn them by earning them through their jobs; behind them there is no employer who pays the pay. Those who have a steady job seem to think that most people have a steady job, but they don't. However, the terms of those who are not paid for accidents, who are not paid by an employer, a professional person, have deteriorated in recent decades, were not available. But the important thing is that children's benefits are higher in their accidents. They're 340 kns. a day if you are out of work and 366 kns. if you have an accident. It does not mean that there are any plows in it, and it shows that this needs to be revised from scratch to ensure that professional diseases and accidents are recorded and that there are compensations and compensations so that people are not thrown into poverty, since of course it affects the long - term financial situation of people when they suffer so much loss of money. I've finished my case, chief. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u96	A respectable president. I thank the head of the welfare committee for the Commission's advance review and believe that this is a very important case, especially the accident prevention. We have had tremendous success in disaster prevention at sea, especially when we reached the stage where there was no death at sea in 2008, I think that it was, at some point, that had been incrediblely effective, but we still can do much better in land accidents. I'd like to ask the senator for these interesting comments from the Work Programme whether the Ministry or the Minister's position was made to the subject changes that were being proposed or to the members of the Council of the Committee. On the other hand, as long as the day's sum of money has been surmounted, I wanted to enter the senator, whether it had been discussed on the part of the minister of 1. ...,the Ministry for the Committee, or the panel of members that it was necessary to raise substantially these daily spendings, and to see if there was no indication that they had taken it during this terms of interest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u97	V.E.G. President. It is now that when this matter was discussed in the Committee, there was no major disagreement, far from it. We spoke to various members, both the Ministry and the Medical Insurance Department, who were normally more conservative than the work programme. But it may have been our assessment that at that point, it was normal for these proposals to come from the best - known sources. Of course, they came into the Committee from the Work Board, but it is for us to review these laws, and we thought it would be by a committee with the best knowledge they had, and we on the Committee would not be doing at that point. I then requested an overview of these daily coins, and in reality, perhaps for the same reason, I decided to raise the amount of money in line with what they have gone up from year to year, but it was not a serious debate to raise them properly, which is part of the coming revision. What's also interesting is that when I asked for information about a number of people with accidents money, they could not be obtained, or it required a considerable amount of work. I said it was all right, that information wouldn't make a major difference in paying off the bill, and I don't think it's necessary to put people in jobs that don't have a very important purpose, but it's natural to fix. We need to have serious statistics on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u98	A respectable president. It can be said that it is the first step, of course, to further work on accidents and job - related diseases to improve their registration so that one can understand the extent of the problem and take action accordingly. I find it interesting that the work board's proposal to improve the work-related diseases and to try to get the registration out of these 20 cases and up to what could be counted as normal relative to the neighboring countries, perhaps 200◯250 cases, can be identified as causing these diseases and making plans for how to react and how to avoid people getting sick and fighting at their jobs, much rather than the word. I'm asking if there were other basic or larger suggestions that the work programme had to do for that, rather than improve job related diseases. And then, just a little bit about the day's money. At the very least, it has seemed to me that the amount of money spent on the day is really going to get sick or hurt and see that no one is going to survive the money they are in, and that is, therefore, used to apply, in fact, permanent resources such as a rehabilitation or even a pension.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u99	Mr. President. The main comments of the Work Commission suggested that the definition of work accidents and the progressive registration of employment diseases and put them in particular to see if the motivation could not be enhanced by making it improved. When it comes to the day's money, it is not only that this may have created some catalyst that would motivate people instead into disability but it also catalyzes insurance on a free market, disappearing from having a common public insurance system that is quite efficient and simple and part of the insurance bill. This, of course, leads people to other means of securing themselves, and it's more expensive, less difficult, and more complex, though they certainly have a job for law firms, as we see in all the many advertisements that reveal to a person about accident and reform rights that are encouraged to see if they belong. Now I think it's great if people have the right to get him, that's what I want to say, but of course, we should have a system that doesn't have to be checked by lawyers on every single case to find out what their rights are. We're supposed to keep this inside the public system. It's supposed to be part of the safety network in which people pay and the public live. But it's been draught over the years, the accident money. It should be noted that I couldn't even get information on the average period of payment, since it was found that health insurance cannot tell who will be able to improve accident insurance with other revenues. That is how the information on that subject is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u100	V.E.G. President. We'll talk about a bill to legalize the accident insurance policy. It is very important in my opinion that this bill is very clear in the discussion that this bill is part of a global review of the social security law and that the purpose of the bill is to deliver the relevant laws on accident insurance in its specials and not to make changes. It is so grown that it is taken care of. The well - being committee agrees, and so it is in the Δluppa, political affairs that have been taken care of in harmony with the committee. It's a good and blessed thing, but then there's a switch because it's actually one of the sides of the die, so to speak, because we have the social insurance law and it didn't agree on the changes it made, so that's why it's not here to be discussed, since it's a majority opinion and a minor opinion. In some ways, it may have been convenient to keep these matters on the schedule so as to discuss them more at the same time, but here it will be, as it were, isolated from the discussion, but well. We'll talk about it as best we can, but we can split it up. What is presented here is important to me, that this law should not make any chemical changes, but it should be referred to in a discussion where it is stated that these laws should be revised within two years from their implementation. However, when it comes to the social security bill, some changes are being made, with the loss of the share and the decrease in the share. The welfare committee because the lesser part would have liked to have it the same with that matter, i.e. not to suggest a chemical change at this time, because then we should be cutting the two issues apart and putting the insurance into the special force. So I concentrate on this bill, I think it's important to say that, in my opinion, there is a lot of work to be done for the committee who receives or who is responsible to revise accidents. It was very clear to the committee that the definition of what accidents or accidents are must be adjusted. This was particularly critical of the need for an external event. The workforce made it very clear why this was not a good definition, and under the workforce's comments, a number of other members took the committee. So I believe this is something that is extremely important to consider. As an accident is defined now, the definition sounds like this, with the permission of a president: ▪ An accident refers to a sudden foreign event that causes injury to the body of the faithful and does not have his will. Here's the emphasis on an external event. And like a dog. paritaprevir Ingadóttir Ingabjörgdóttir, chairman of the welfare committee, went over earlier so that a number of people are excluded each year from getting benefits from working accidents. It is therefore suggested by the Work Commission that work accidents will be defined as follows, by the permission of a president: ▪ A work accident refers to a sudden unexpected event involving work that causes injury, health damage, or death to one or more individuals. What is so important here is that outside the event is no longer spoken of but something unexpected. The committee concluded that she feels that this accident concept will be examined, but in the spirit of accepting the premise that this was just taking the insurance insurance, they split out of the social security law, we agreed that such a matter would not be changed. I reiterate that I think it is extremely important that it be done and must admit that I just feel like I'm putting some confidence in those who get the job of revising these laws, and we just trust that they will be accepted there and that definition changed. In fact, there were some suggestions in the reviews of the Committee on other chemical modifications due to accidents, which I also consider very important to be seen when it comes to revising the law. For example, it has to do with improvement due to accidents during trips to and from work, the separation of terms as well as employment diseases. It is also true that I trust that these points will be taken into account in a thorough review of the law and that those who know best will be given them to process these and, without a doubt, other proposals available on how to make the accident insurance better for them to serve their purpose safely. Finally, I want to come into what has only been discussed today, which is how low the amount of accident money is. Hv. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingadóttir pointed out in his speech that the difference between accidents of money and unemployment insurance has been increasing in recent years. I think it's very important to look at it, change it, and actually raise the cost of accidents so that people can survive in the event of an accident. It's low now that I don't think any person, much less a person who has a family to provide can actually survive that amount. The context of what it takes to live in the community has to be put in accident money. Although they may be having a short period of time, it is easy to imagine that an unexpected accident may also bring in a number of expenses for a person who wants to work through his recovery in the best possible way. Therefore, for society it must be best if a person who experiences the aftereffects of an accident has financial circumstances to do so. It is very difficult to work in ourselves, even changing circumstances, if your financial situation is also ruined. As I said in the beginning of my case, I agree that this is where I'm making the change to take the accident insurance and put in a special law, and as I've traced it, I therefore agree that they're not being made a subject change, so I'd like to say and again that I'd wanted it to be the same thing about changes in the social security law. However, there are changes that are burdensome for reformers. One change in materials is that a minister is authorized to determine the location of the organisation or its branches. I think it's a great mistake to make it a minister because most people who are major clients of a insurance agency are in the capital area. It's a sensitive group. I believe that the transfer of the Agency could have a very negative and burdensome effect on that group. Similarly, there is a decline in the rightness of prisoners for improvement. I would have liked to in that case to have kept all such chemical changes and separate the two issues at this point. This will be better considered when it comes to the program, but it is important to mention it here, since these issues are closely related.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u101	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. The welfare committee for her review of this case, of social security accidents, who may not give up much, and in many ways especially in the form of this legislation and management. It has discussed various factors that are more important and that have long since come to grips with the council and its administration. This includes the interaction between different factors in this complex system and, in fact, a fundamental part of the social security system, i.e. The basic benefits of self-imperience or that of those who need to rely on both accident insurance and insurance insurance insurance insurance, to improve it enough to advance the way it is at any given time. It is also the second major subject at present for social security purposes that prevent people from being locked up in the system or the system so that people are trapped there in some sort of reformal or organized poverty and should not return. It is known in itself the discussion of the growth of disability in this relationship, and this aspect of the matter was merely evident in the answers to the chairman of the welfare committee. The day's coins have been part of that discussion because they can change the form and the set of day - to - day coins, but this does not change the daily coins themselves to be ignominiously low and not merely ignominiously unconvincingly low. The amount of money available to people is that it cannot be saved unless it has other incomes as well as support from other systems. The small amount of money may help people not to look for the short - term help that may have been needed when they entered the system at its beginning but, in fact, before they have tried to see if only temporary problems, temporary problems, temporary illnesses, and such, after going into the rehabilitation and disability process. It is a savings that if this has been the case, that much of the short - term support in the form of day money is not properly available and people are literally pushed in on fixed pensions for an extended period of time, from which it may be difficult to earn a living. However, it is not just a amount of money in our day's money that is meant to be discussed at the council; it is not only the total combination in our complex improved systems, and then the bases itself and what people are meant to live on, and especially, as I did about this morning's work, in connection with the agreements that are now being done, we hope. Of course, when it comes to dealing with what I trust to become the highest payings in the labour market, it is inevitable for us at the council to handle the money that people are meant for in the social security system, whether it is accident insurance, pensions, or disability pensions. There must be the same requirement as that of a labour market, and it must also move on to those who are temporarily relying on daily funds, that in this legislation they have the minimum amount of money available to minimal progress. I think everyone knows that the money that's under here is not going to do it. For some 30 to 40 years, I believe that since the complex network of social security with us and the interaction between different types of credit and expansive payments, I believe that humans have recently lost the figure on the number of committees appointed to achieve a complete review of the system and the interaction between its different factors and how humans move from one of them to another with no results. This is unlike the number of committees appointed to review the constitution, most of which have never been found, for they were merely appointed to form in order to meet standards for the council and were never intended to cover the change in constitution at the time referred to. The above mentioned have been going on for over 30 years, and none of them have been able to make total suggestions on the revision of the system that will be carried out and taken into account by law. It was quite near during the last term of a committee appointed by the then welfare minister and under the prehumanity of Gunnarsson's Árni. It concluded its terms on a review of the aspects of social security that make it possible for the elderly and the pensions and the attempts to simplify that system and, in itself, were subject to ideas of further simplicity on other factors and, in fact, all aspects of the social security end up, as they were heading toward them. Sadly, these suggestions did not get past the end of the season, but they could not pass through the council in time to comply with the law. Then there was a new administrative body, and a global review of this complex system of ours was still under the direction of the Committee under the Head of Árni House of Gunnarsson, and another committee before it and another committee before it. I want to use this opportunity to sharpen all the people involved at work now to let nothing happen once in completing the suggestions for achieving a simple system and more efficiency. It's been a long time, and thousands of people are involved in the complexity and inexhaustibleness of the system after beating along and taking some minor changes or events over the years without ever having the overall picture. Unfortunately, the system has become so big and complex that there is hardly any man who fully knows it. There have been some stories, however, that there is one employee in a insurance institution that they do, but he does not know the full scope of all the problems that have become available on the system, and that alone makes it difficult for people to attend their rights, if the system is so complicated that they are not in a position to know their rights and neither to get enough information about the rights. It is very important to ensure that the equality of the citizens is being avoided by such changes so that people can properly study their own rights that they are not so complex and unscrupulous that it is difficult to recognize them. Of course, it is possible for some to receive and others not, and that is discrimination. At this job now we have agents, including From each council at the Council, who work together on committees for a reason. A member of the Eygló Harðardóttir, together with representatives from the labour market, various trade unions, the Microcollar Union, the National Association of older citizens and other sources. It's a big, big group, but I think there's a reason to put up with the hopes that it will succeed in achieving a fairly complete review of this system. I think it's true that there is good reason to take up a discussion of the day's coins that are listed in that context and to see if that whole proposal would come to the problem they have been and the small amount of money in it. This is then linked to a number of things, as well as trying to make the system more efficient and to reduce the organized poverty in which it involves a lot of income transfers of various types and income limits and what it is that humans have developed through the time to complicate the system, not without cause, but because of the lack of funds into the system, and because of this, humans have had to make a wide variety of additional rules to direct the money to those who have, at any time, needed the most. Surely, it is long ago time for a little winding down and a simple system. Mainly, the system must ensure that people make a decent living. I'll take it to a smaller level, but I think there's a 3.5% improvement in budgets for the current year and that's up to less than 200 yous. By K., so we can be talking about 6hs. K. increase for taxes, over 3 yous. K. increase in monthly income from tax to tax. Now, as the decision seems to be in progress in the general labour market, and then it is likely to follow in the public labour market, that there will be substantial increases in the lowest paid groups beyond this, a great deal of joy and time to be settled, so it is extremely important not to repeat what happened here in the 1990s that pensioners, desperates, and those who have to rely on a health-day insurance agency and other means of living, unemployment insurance, and so forth, will not be left with the ever - increasing price change, a few thousand years. increase, as all others on the country's lowest salary increase considerably more money. It is clear from the national budget under consideration at the council that this has in no way been expected in that program. There are no budgets, neither for the increase in the daily budget in the health and accidents insurance, nor for the increase in disability in pensions, pensions, unemployment improvements, nor for other factors in line with the pay raise we probably see in general labour market. I think our greatest project in the private affairs of the people of the country must be guaranteed by these collective agreements that the larger groups of people who have to rely on the social insurance, government insurance, on the pension system there, on unemployment benefits, and other such items for their implementation, get comparable compensation to other groups in the country. Of course, this does not change the fact that even if we succeed, we especially need to handle the daily allowances considered here, since they are not in any relation to the lowest wage or compensation. I believe that there is good reason to be careful and to make sure that the practical tips of the Labour Board revealed the necessary changes to the law. One thing is, of course, to get a description of things that would be needed to be changed into a work programme, which is not being handled by the Commission because they are not making changes in the law. However, it must be observed, and the Council must carry out its role in providing the whole range of proposals for the revision of the Law issued and for which the work programme points out, since it is those who are aware of what needs to be done to reduce accidents and reduce job related diseases. To reduce accidents and disease in human work is the key to the matter, for although progress is extremely important and a decent life, only health, life, and limb consume money. Like I said in my exchange of words to what? The head of a former welfare committee is my conviction that we can in this area, despite the great and good work that the work there has done, and especially if we heed and follow the indications and advice given in the workforce, have become even more effective than we have been doing, and in fact, much better results. I think that there is really little limit to how much accidents and diseases can be reduced in any area. I think that's what people have done, and we have the examples in many places to learn from. I mentioned earlier that in 2008, there was the first year when there was no death at sea, and the result of the wanton and tireless activity of people is that of marine accidents for years, including many. with the schoolship Seabjörg and courses for sailors and much better equipment and so on. Men would have thought it quite amazing not long ago that that year, in Iceland, no one would move to sea. Of course, the same can be done on land. I remind myself of the concerns Paul O'Neill, former U.S. secretary of finance, laid down in his work for Alcoa, for their factories high in 100 countries in a highly organized and hard fight against international work accidents, which were serious and damaging to tens of countries, and achieved remarkable results. I think that's why we're supposed to follow the work board's proposal to make changes in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u102	Mr. President. Hv. A senator entered it, if I understood it correctly, that the system we have is incredibly large pieces. This has been changed over the years, and few will understand if any overall. He correctly stated that this meant that the rights of those who are to receive improvements from the system are not guaranteed. Hv. paritaprevir Pétur Blöndal, and his committee, like a oar. A senator mentioned, bringing these pieces into a universal arrangement. I'd like to ask the senator what he thinks, if he knows something about the work of that group, and how he seems to be doing, and how far it is going and how far it is going to take these pieces into a whole system. This is important because the overall pressure on the safety network and on the welfare system will increase dramatically in the coming decades. That's two big reasons. One is that the nation's average age is rising. The other is that computers and paddles are taking over jobs. We are already in the position of growth without any new work to a far greater extent than we have known. This trend will be much faster and much addressed, so that such a whole system, which handles and makes all this improvement system and welfare system and the security network more efficient, is something that will become a major pressure to create. I'd like to ask the senator if he'd like to see the Peter Blandals committee moving it in the right direction from the buttocks in a more complete system and how he himself would like to see this system evolve.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u103	A respectable president. That's right. A candidate for a growing project in modern societies is economic growth without employment, and many evidence suggests that self - efficiency will increasingly eliminate various traditional functions we know. There is also an increase in life expectancy, and all of this will increase the pressures on the welfare system. It is true that a committee under the leadership of Pétur Blöndalur has discussed this matter, but in his permission, it is now a work that has been led by Seystein, Sæmundsson. I'm pretty optimistic about it being able to do good things. The problem is that humans have not got the system out of an evil mind but because they had limited resources and therefore tried to set some rules to direct them to the most important groups needed at any given time, e.g. those with no income or no income from a pension fund. In one way or another, special arrangements were made to direct money to the right places. To simplify such a system, money has to be more involved in the simple system than it was in that complex one. If there is success in such a system, it is inevitable. I think that as these projects are increasing in the developed nations, what is more successful is that the wealth of the nations grows and as a result their potential for coping with these new challenges.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u104	Mr. President. I don't think I've ever had a better answer to a question here on the platform. The Senator is incredibly expressive. He's talking about automation, that's exactly the word I always need in this discussion when I'm talking about these things. He answered the questions I wanted to bring. That's a pleasant surprise for me. This is exactly this: Valuables are limited; money means that people must somehow set priorities for them - that is just what they are - with the increase in the wealth of the nations. I'd like to ask the senator, he's such a lot of cops. I've been looking at it the other day and I've had a lot of money on a man in Iceland. If I do the right number, in the last 20 years, he could have been twice as big. Does the senator have a feeling about this? This will continue, and it is exactly this self - efficiency with computers and robotics that are being discussed today. I read a Oxford 2013 report on this subject, which says that over the next 20 years there is a good chance that 50% of the jobs will be taken from these companies and new jobs will not be available to the same extent that the pressure will be excessive. There is such an overwhelming call that people can find more efficient ways, but the value is just higher to go in more efficient ways. I'd like to hear more of the senator's mind on these matters, he's very clear in this regard. What does he foresee, as it is now, when there is a strong plea for irreprehensible progress? The Economist says that we are not quite there to be able to afford it, but it is time for them to do our jobs and computers, or half of them, in the next 20 years, to become valuable to make this possible. What does the senator say about this? Is there any value today so that, at least, accident insurance would depend on everyone's loyalty, so we don't have to go through all these complicated rules? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u105	A respectable president. I'm glad I managed to answer what was directed to me. I want to say about the second questions that I think we may well be at the point where some development is in order to find that what has been called a civilian wage or some measure of activity in such cases may be realistic or at least worth the discussion. I think the primary challenge over the next few decades will be the result of growth, the growth of production, of automatic growth. Where do all the valuables created without the need for working hand? If they go to society, the community will make a lot more valuable after 10 years and even more valuable after 20 years than it does today and divide the valuables and then try to share the work that is available. But if any international corporation or 1% of mankind, the highest in the world, reaches out to them the results of automatic development, the valuables that will develop there, the economy that will be without employment, we will face tremendous social problems in a few decades's time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u106	Mr. President. Most of the things I wanted to discuss in this talk have made me very clear. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar. I'd still like to get together and go a little deeper into those things. We're talking accident insurance. You go through the bill and there's hooks and creases there, exceptions, etc. As the senator mentioned earlier, when it comes to the welfare system, priorities must be set, to the improvement system, to the security network, and that is what has been done. That's why this system is complicated, and to a large extent, it's a piece of butt. Like what? A senator named them few, if any, fully understand. Like what? A senator named it natural when people don't understand the system, that people's rights go courtyards; people feel that the system is arbitrary and that it's a fraud. It's not good to build a community, so people feel that the system is always betraying themselves. One of the things I've noticed in this job is that people are extremely unhappy with an insurance agency, for example, always feel that they are cheating. Last year, along with members of all groups, I asked for a report on the path of disability within the government if they felt violated. The report arrived, and the organization of invalids, a number of my contacts, were not satisfied with the summary. There seems to be no one who has a general view of these matters, just as the Minister's report on the petition was to be submitted. Why is this so important? When we have this kind of twitting system, which no one knows properly what's due, it's not just rights that go in the courtyards, it's the superfluous sums that go in the courtyards. There's excessive incorruption, bilocation and charges, etc. so that the system becomes overly expensive. It's gonna be a vicious circle. They get started in butts because they don't have enough money to do anything but because of the buttocks, the system becomes a complicated system that is always more costly and costly; it is a fixed cycle that can in reality be explained by the saying, "It's expensive to be poor, and it's expensive. There is, like us, me and what. paritaprevir In our conversation just before, on the contrary, the Hjörvar of the Hjörrvar committees is getting bigger and more valuable, and it's a question of how it ends. The increased treasure creation will include the fact that we no longer have to be so poor and that we no longer have to be in these pieces and that we can go on a more complete system. For example, a 2013 Oxford report on automation - I think it's called Automation of Job; it was adopted twice as a project in The Economist - over how computers and paddles will take over up to 50% of their jobs, as we know them, over the next 50 years while new jobs are getting started. Today, this is going to increase, which will mean that if people's jobs are not strengthened by computers and composing, they will be out of work or they will have to accept less money because they are always competing with computers or cooling outs that could take the job. This depends on certain factors, as explained in the report, the cost of money and cost of the labor; and the labor must always reduce the demands until the end of work is lost and for unemployment. You can imagine in 20 years, even though it was 25 years, the pressure because half of the workers had unemployment bills; and it will take longer than it is now for those people to get back into the labour market. The pressure generated by this means an appeal and a demand for greater efficiency in controlling the system. Then we'll have to get richer, so we'll no longer be in this same poverty trap as a system, we don't have to be in pieces anymore. We can go to the complete solution and one of the solutions mentioned by The Economist is a conditional framework, i.e. ... that everybody'semployeredwith a certain amount of citizen's salary. This is an idea that people on both the left and the right side are beginning to think seriously. The Economist will take this before and have many paragraphs on this, that this will be one of the solutions that will be considered. This has been checked in Switzerland. This is one of the factors that the dissident movement in Spain - now political movement - was winning a great victory - had its own policy, so this requirement has come to be. The more valuable things come into existence, the more self - activity it becomes possible. It will be possible to have a system that allows everyone to get just a basic wage. Like I said before, right and left men like this. Left men like this, it's communism's wet dream that everyone gets a basic move and a basic service. Right men like this because this means that we no longer need all of this ◯brokraice, we don't need all these exceptions anymore, we don't need these overexcited complications that we've come here to have to accept because we've been poor. This is what we can face. As for the accident insurance we're discussing right now, so I'll introduce them into it in big context, it's complicated and with exceptions, etc. But what I would like to know is if we don't have today - even if we can't afford to pay the basics today, we could do it in 20 years. The Economist says it's still too expensive. I recently saw an article, I think it was before the weekend, on Friday last, where they took it together and said, "No, we can't afford it right away. But it's gonna happen, maybe after 10 years, maybe 15. The requirement is also great, when the pressures on the welfare system, on the safety network, that what becomes above, we start to see it in the other countries and in these countries. But instead of having these complicated rules around all these accident insurance, do we not today have the means to afford it? I'm bringing in the health system. We pay a lot of taxes in the country, so why do people need to worry financially if they get sick? It shouldn't be like that, we can afford not to have it that way. But then there's a question about the accident insurance, if we can afford it if everyone gets hurt. I've been taking the home insurance and insurance package all through for the first time - I've been life insurance for the children for a long time, but I took other guarantees through Christmas. I was looking at it together with the Board of Health, how much it costs if you have to worry financially and what you really can guarantee about health in Iceland. This is not too much money if it was taken through everyone's taxes, and it would be integrated, and it would be a whole thing. I think the Icelandic community can afford it today, that everyone is just an accident, doesn't have to worry financially about the health, the physical condition of their bodies, that there is no guarantee, the insurance companies can handle what they do today. This is something I'm going to look at and continue to ask the senators that in this matter, but the future can be pretty good in this regard. We're getting richer as a nation. But it matters, and it's one of the things we notice - everyone talking about the death of the right/left, and it's certainly in a certain low right now - that what happens with self - activity in all of these, when the jobs go away, is that more people will be unemployed and less pay; the pay goes up to those who can take advantage of this self - activity, all the development of self - control. This is all reflected in The Economist, the summary of this, and the ◯return of capital, what investors get back, goes up because of this, you buy this high-tech automation for this, so that there's going to be a change in the way they did in the industrial revolution. The difference will increase and the right/left will come back in. It may be 10 years before we begin to feel it. At the same time, we are, I think, much better now to deal with this. We're much more informed. We're much better connected. We're a lot of political aquaculture. We have much more demands on being involved. We have much better access to information about who is in control and who is mistaking our money, so I am optimistic.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u107	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. He came there on many points that I found very interesting. I'm not necessarily sure that I agree everywhere. A senator, yet still, thought that this important thing is worth discussing and in longer time than is available in those answers, which can be started at least here. You see, I think I and what. A senator will agree that we want to improve the interests of those who have fallen asleep, this is only a matter of implementation. That's why I'd like to ask the senator about his irreprehensible basic progress or the civilian salary, which I know he's studied well. What's happening in me is whether it's a reasonable distribution of money, because it's going to go up the entire business. Many people will receive money because they do not really need it because they earn money. Then my question is, Isn't it more reasonable to spend all the money on those who can't finance their own progress and they have more to trade? I'd like to hear what a senator's thought of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u108	Mr. President. This is the only criticism that has been observed in this regard, but if everyone gets it, they can also take more of the top, which gets even. If a person receives a high salary, he will pay more into the common pendulum, which will then bring it in. That means it's the same money there. The above items are taken on other grounds, e.g. of capital, land, resources and the other, of companies, etc., so that money returns. What we gain is that all the waste in the inefficiency, this inseparably irregularity, which has just been necessary to do so, as the senator says, is to install all kinds of systems and systems to ensure that money is returning to the most needed, but there are all kinds of side effects of that system. It's very uninstallable, it's opaque, and it also means that there are many conditions that those who need to use their safety net need to meet. We have noted that, for example, the way their privacy is handled is totally insane. There are many rights to be sacrificed. We don't have to worry about that anymore with the civilian salary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u109	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the answer. Okay, so somehow we need to finance the system. I'd like to see if I understand why. One of the ways to put some kind of high-pay tax on the top scale is to get the money into the system. I ask because I want to understand how the system is financed. Then there's something else. A senator entered his talk, which turns toward self - activity. I think it's true that there are a lot of things that can make us feel better about life but I also wonder if there's some balance that needs to be achieved there, whether it's actually socially good to be working on machines too much because, while they can do some particular job, the jobs that machines take over and on the other hand, the jobs that the machines take over and human relations, where individuals are dealing with other people, and hence on some sort of involvement, and perhaps especially if we view disabled people in the context of this discussion, which in part of which may be at risk the possibility of social isolation, we don't have to be on guard there, although technology may not be too much of life.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u110	Mr. President. Exactly how the tax system is, I don't know. I don't know enough of any possible taxes. One tax I've studied something and I'm a little impressed with is tax on land, it's hard to cheat on, it's efficient and transparent, and it's not causing economic damage, but it's something that people will have to take overall against this trend. For not going too far, naturally, no one is going too far, only a question about what you think is too much. In some cases it is good to go too far and burn yourself, etc. but maybe not in this case. As for social isolation, I think this technology will enable disabled people to be much more efficient. I think it's just 20 to 25 years for people to come up with a family plot that's going around. Today, hands can be bought in 4 billion. K. who are already in the kitchen and are cooking for you. You can buy today. Though this is still certain, the senses, the senses of the robot, have become much more powerful. So they are moving much more into a human environment without our being afraid of them. After 20How 25 years, such composing will be in most homes, as if most of us are going to have a three - dimensional printer in five years. That is something you can imagine. It can also be imagined when the robot technology has become powerful and is an external skeleton, running all over comfy ground. It may be 10 years before it's a little more sustainable. So I think technology will help people move better, what they can't do today. I don't think I've been able to answer everything, but it's a very beautiful prospect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u111	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for his speech. It is a joy to see that accident insurance can become such a source of inspiration that we witnessed here. I wanted to say first - because of it. A senator spoke a lot about buttocks and complex systems, and I'm not going to reduce the fact that the social security system has been maintained over the years - that these are so important systems and they are very effective. They would need more money, but having these systems is very valuable. In terms of civilian pay, I find that very interesting. I have many warnings about this, but it was a real disappointment that a political arrangement proposed by Halldóra Mogensen, the Pier of Pirata, has not been established yet. I had been looking forward to getting her on the welfare committee because I think it's a very interesting discussion. We'll see in the discussion, where certain elements in the community are willing to pay financial support to all the poorest people who go to the countryside, that this is the ◯tendens, in the whole of the West World. Since there are changes in the economy, the problem is placed on the individual that he just needs to do more and be more active and we'll work it out. As in Sweden, it has been shown that about 100 of you. low - paying jobs have been lost in the past ten years, and the people who would have won them are in constant efficiency and degradation. During the civil pay, these people would be doing something upbuilding and enjoyable. I wanted to ask the senator: " Does he think it's a realistic possibility to try some sort of induction, to start experimenting with some kind of experiment?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u112	Mr. President. The induction - this has been tested in many places. In the council arrangement. Consider the case of Pirata's deputy Halldóra Mogensen, and the results have been very good. They have been saying that professional activities have increased. That's exactly what I've heard recently - I've talked about this several times in the platform, I need to find that study - that if the welfare system is strong, it's going up to the job. That's exactly what you've always heard. I need to go find this investigation, if the Senator knows what the investigation is, I'd be very happy to hear it. It's going to be invented to a greater degree. This is one of the policies of the resistance movement that just won the election in two cities in Spain. It was a call in Switzerland for this to be paid nationally. The power is all this way. When unemployment begins to grow so immensely, press so overwhelmingly - it's not just a question of whether it will happen, it's just a question of when it will happen, i.e. when these self-activity takes place. It's just a matter of time. It's just a matter of how expensive and how small a salary is. It's a question about the bottlenecks, such as the number of programs that enable automatic development, and other such technical factors. This is gonna happen, 20 years maybe, 25 years maybe, I don't know exactly, this is gonna happen. The pressure will become so intense on the welfare system that various solutions will be examined. Is civil pay the right to respond? I don't know, but it's Porta's synopsis proposal, okay? paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen is called for an investigation. I think we're going to figure out how much this will cost. Then we will also see a time frame into the future, when we will be able to afford it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u113	V.E.G. President. Yes, I encourage the senator and will be with him in making sure that this matter will be brought back and established because I find this very exciting discussion. I'm not saying that I'm directly into this, but I'm against the ideologies. As for this investigation, I saw just what I saw, and the wonderful field of information for the Generals wasn't long to spell it out. This was a major assessment, European, many European countries - I don't remember whether it was 18,000 people or what, but it showed that the much more powerful welfare systems in the state, the more people want to work. It was asked: Would you want to work if you didn't have to, even if that wasn't an economic necessity for you? It's very interesting that there's a direct link to this. As people feel secure, social responsibility may increase because you know how valuable it is to have a strong and good society. Changes to the structure of the economy and production and all of this will require a high degree of social change. And we've already witnessed the disparagement of a property that is becoming, so it's almost intolerable. Rather than being able to make money from the resources, we may be able to fund it to a small number of individuals, as Canada does in some way. This, of course, is what should come. This is what the Icelandic public calls for, including the requirement to change the constitution and resource directive. Even if it's a little far apart, it smells like the idea of civilian pay.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u114	Mr. President. It's really stolen from me what I was going to say. Yeah. The good point about--no, now it's stolen from me again. I've got too much in my head.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u115	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u116	[[It's all about, like, "exciting."]] This is so exciting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u117	The accident insurance?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u118	The accident insurance - no, but in the larger context, it is important to discuss all these factors in the larger context. We often have that to fall into some of the things we're floundering on and lose the overall context. We also have this part of our council, falling into our own world here. We're in here at a council and we can't see what's going on outside. This is a management problem Peter Drucker brings up on the subject in advance, i.e. not being able to see what's going on. And as he mentions, in all organizational works, results are measured only outside the organizational integrity, results are not from within, that is just efficiency, results are out of place. The organization is always serving its environment. Just as the Council is supposed to be doing. No, it's totally stolen from me what I was going to say to the senator, but I'm just gonna make it work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u119	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a bill to set up an accident insurance policy. It is interesting that, in fact, a suggestion is made to move us from having this in one law to having special laws on social security accidents. This may be understandable, based on what has been presented here in the discussion, and related to the fact that the social security legislation is completely jungle, although it has reason and has been reacting to the differences in problems that have occurred in the system, the system has been taking in new and new categories, reforms and reforms, but, of course, it is long ago time for an overall review. This bill has the uniqueity that it is put forward primarily to cover the emergency insurance and is part of future social security laws. As is very well described, it is suggested that the measures of the emergency insurance policy in the current Social Security Act be transferred into special laws that are independent of health insurance law and social security legislation. There will then be three laws and a collective discussion of the social security and the overall prospects of accidents. Hence, it was very clear to the committee that despite the excellent tips and suggestions, it would be reasonable to stick to the arrangement rather than make any changes, it would be natural for them to be done in the big context. Perhaps that's why it's important to go into this discussion now that you're working on the changes to the social security legislation in a working group as a matter of course. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndal led, and it came to pass here. paritaprevir Sæmundsson leads them to work now, where many members are involved, and it is a continuation of a job that the former senator of the Árni of Gunnarsson led the former government and had come quite far. During the last term, proposals for changes in the social insurance law were provided, simple and changes associated with the rest of the organization, and also had the primary objective of simplifying all revenues, strengthening the pension system as part of the social security system, and ensuring that they were better off the pensions they received from the pensions. This work is likely to continue in the present working group, and hopefully it will come to a conclusion soon. One of the points mentioned earlier, and I'd like to get involved before going any further. paritaprevir Jón Ólafsson wondered about welfare and work, how well - being can have a positive effect on work and work ability, and, in fact, social responsibility. It would be nice to review it as a matter of course. A senator mentioned, the research that has been carried out on this and that in connection with the civil pay discussion. I remember a few years ago when they pulled it forward and kept saying -- and like to say, we've had so much talk about frame law here and other things: we've got to build up our lives, we've got to build up the big business, we've got to do this and we've got to do this and that, well, we've got to get there. But in the Norwegian communities, they have acknowledged that it is not that one comes from the other but that it supports each other. It can become a prerequisite for a job, cause you to want to promote employment, want to strengthen certain areas, want to build up because people want to go there because the service is good, insurance is good, it's good schools, it's good play schools, it's good play schools, etc. There's always an argument about who's coming first and who's coming after. Of course, we cannot finance the welfare system unless we have some income, but in what was discussed earlier, it also proved very well how we view the need to have a job, not all of us to have jobs or rights, we may not have an endless chance of creating all jobs. We are fighting countries in southern Europe where there is a 50% unemployment rate in young people. We cannot continue to view the group of people who do not get a job as social leaveouts, or that the group considers themselves to be a subset, as we see in France, Italy, and elsewhere, these are often groups of immigrants from former colonies of these countries who view themselves as out - of - society, do not enjoy rights and insurance and want to work, want to be an active part of society. It takes some change of mind to make them feel confident and to realize that they are part of a community, even though they are not employed in conventional employment. What I'd also like to do as a subject in connection with this bill is that making adjustments to the bill is made, as we have seen, changes in the amount. This is indicated in the Committee's opinion and in the adjustments made by the failure of the bill prior to the year, further increases were made with these proposals. But what I want to do is how these increases come about in the social security system and in the accident insurance. I've seen that the system in which this country is a problem is a problem. This was shown in the discussion of the budget. Hv. paritaprevir Helgi's Hjörvar was recalling that the increase had been 3.5% in the last year. She wasn't at all 3.5%, it was on the budget bill. The percentage was reduced to 3% in the last discussion of the budget bill because it had already been determined that pay and prices or index prices would be lower than expected in the original terms of the budget. Notice what happens. I criticized because I realized this, and although I didn't make it right, it was urgent to fix it. That's why the budget is in control. Then I mean that now, for example, the increase ends at 3%. This is where we're hearing of collective agreements with an increase of 101⁄215% immediately this year. But because the increase is predetermined, according to the rule, there should not be an increase until next year compared to this year's experience and into the following year and after the budget. It is this way, as it actually stands, that the amount of money will change every year according to the budget. Their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the price of the consumer price. And when you look at the price layer, you always take the average wage, the total remuneration. We also did that during the previous few years, and we should admit that this is where people should have acted differently. The fact is, men were making adjustments to try to raise the lowest wage more than the medium and high income, but that doesn't result in micro-terrestrial growth. It does not generate an accident improvement and an increase in payment in the various categories of the system. It's not going to be returned to a pensioner. Of course, it's a very weak system. This has been the most ugly form of publication in our discussion, but it is that we have a national budget for the next three, four years, and even more of a member of the committee's opinion. The legal committee and this plan describe a 2% - year - long increase in money gain. Now it may change, and the goal is, of course, that there will be money growth and we will be happy to continue. I'm sure she'll have to get even. But what do you think is going on, too? It's supposed to be 1% for pensioners and disability candidates. She's supposed to be half as low. That's what it's all about. The Minister of Economic Affairs and the Government that the next four years are expected to be twice as low for pensioners as for those who accept compensation, including accident insurance and so on, as well as for public markets. What message is that? It's a government that promises it for elections and says that it has to be reassigned, that it did in part, but not entirely, and then brings it back. I don't think any senators can figure this out. I don't think they've been aware of this nonsense, at least they don't speak that way when they talk about the status of pensioners and other things. And when we talk about the changes in subsidies on accident insurance, we use these lowest indicators and the basis for the budget. Worse yet, at the same time, which is not necessarily related to the accidents but also to the diseases experienced by man's subsequent or self - rehabilitation or constant return to the hospital, the pay has been increased in that section by special doctors as well as by a range of practice and rehabilitation, where men pay more for more themselves, even a few times themselves, and then there are less payoffs. This in itself, along with what is being suggested, may increase the cost of personal insurance to meet these challenges, and there is some evidence to suggest that they do. Then we're in a strange position. Of course, it is inexpensive to the community that we have common guarantees, pay similar amounts of money, and our benefits are never to use the guarantees we buy, but it will be inexpensive if all are involved. When people start buying special insurance, it's gonna cost a lot more, and we'll see that the companies trying to sell us health insurance and other things are making out of it specifically, and they're not interested in growing the overall insurance system, they're not interested in it. Their advantage is to sell insurance, and it is best to be able to scare people so that they feel that they cannot guarantee their survival or their family any other way than to buy special guarantees. The bill on this subject is what I specifically say about social security accidents and is to be part of these three-fold guarantees, i.e. Social security, health insurance, and here are the accidents taken out as special. This discusses how the project is being carried out and general requirements for accidents at work, industry, rescue work, sports performances, sports competitions, or household chores, as the injured one is guaranteed under rule 7 and 8. magazines that discuss domestic chores. In order to be loyal to household chores, a person has to make certain tax contributions. Then we list how accidents are reported. One of the things that have been very familiar with the discussion and were very much discussed about the need to make material changes in this chapter following the discussion is how accidents are announced and what demands are made, which state what constitutes an accident. That is what the general arrangement in Article 5. in the bill: ▪ An accident refers to a sudden foreign event that causes injury to the body of the faithful and does not have his will. This has been observed in all reviews of criticism of this expression, as follows the immediate exogenous event (s). The government's work programme is very complaining about this because it falls outside this definition of a certain accident - related group, including those with an accident. Because men may have given up on themselves or because of something else, you can say to them, " It was your fault. ' There are many cases of such things that have not been paid because they have made some unwise things to think, even in difficult circumstances. A famous example of what I know very well was where an individual resorted to trying to save another person, using force to damage his own body, i.e. His back, and he was in no position to recover because he had acted unwisely in an effort to save his partner. You can see how crazy that idea is. The government's work programme wants to be changed and opened so that instead of a sudden external event, a sudden, unexpected event (s) will be extended. Iceland's health insurance doesn't make comments about it, but the work programme considers it very important and also thinks it's very important that a good report follows to explain what is meant. It also matters to keep track of accidents and that accidents will be reported. There is a chapter in these laws on the reported accidents, but the workforce claims that the registration of accidents is inadequate, including because people know they're not entitled to pay. But you've got two. A year - to - year report for health insurance and a substantial proportion of them are reported, and 103/45% is rejected as an accident at the end of the day. That is why Iceland's Medical Insurance has also requested clear rules because there are clearly disagreements about the interpretation of this issue and a great deal of charges. It is vital, then, that a new arrangement be made clear, that we try to explain what is meant, and to whom it works. The committee, however, did not think that it was possible to do just that for this very work, thought that it would be reasonable to wait with material adjustments. However, it is imperative that this work be carried on rapidly and that further definitions are introduced as soon as possible into the law. The bill lists the identity of an accident. There are employees, such as students at trade in legitimate industry, students at work at health and science, shipmates, workers working to save men from high-life, athletes involved in the sports industry, farm workers working for agricultural purposes, professional drivers working for their own business, and others are listed as being listed. It has been suggested that they lack comparable guarantees and are for the athletes at law school or formal studies in the country's schools, under 18 years of age, and actually at any age, that group is not listed. It's a comment made by Iceland's Teachers Association, and it's natural that these insurances reach students, and I think that it's important that this will become the transformation that follows. Earlier, I had mentioned a guarantee of domestic chores, but it depends on having it paid on tax returns every year to be assured there. Pits according to these social security costs are medical aid, money, disability, and death benefits, but it's interesting to see what's paid. I'm not going to go over it in detail, but I'd like to say how low these numbers are in many cases, so it's obvious that there's some other way in which you can make your insurance. For example, there are coins of 1,677 k. daily for each individual. Everyone realizes that it does not take long for humans to live by the same thing as it does at 366 k. for every child involved. These are incredibly low numbers, and it's important to review them. It also starts to rely on the labor union medical fund beyond the social security policy that makes the system more complex and so natural what has been presented here repeatedly that people buy insurance from private partners and allow it to work that way. I'm not going to have any further issues in this discussion about this bill. I'm here to seize the opportunity because we're dealing with a bill to deal with an accident insurance policy. I'll support it, knowing that what needs to be done in order to make this any sense, that's what I've been trying to come to, as soon as I give the highest order. Ministers of well-being or social and housing Ministers to closely follow up on their work to their Social Security and to revise them and to try to achieve that in the best of terms. It has provided its own suggestions, and it will be exciting to see if they are able to drive them together with public health requests. It is extremely important to try to make peace, since both disabilityrs and other pensioners are down in the same system and any decrease in the number of people that all bend and simplify. It must be admitted, for example, that the provisions we set in order to ensure minimal pension during the last term, which was a special supply for those weighing seriously on the lowest amendment, were always estimated to be temporary. She has a dollar in exchange for a dollar, which means that no one gets anything in addition to the minimum value there but is now over 70 grand. ... fromthe Pension Fund. That doesn't go away, so I'm at the top. A minister to pick it up as soon as possible and to make up for it in other ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u120	Mr. President. I'd like to ask the senator if he doesn't think there's any change in the bill on the definition of an accident, that with a sudden event that limits compensation, like the example when you want to save your friend, he's not entitled to pay the same price as that. A senator mentioned and then the other change in study. Then you come to the second point where there's all these holes in the system and people have butts and they're trying to fix it, but the money's tight and they're trying to do it in the right places, but that's all the holes they need to fill. As mentioned in the discussion, it's a little bit of a butt cut, and no one really knows what it all looks like. As a result, I'd like to ask the senator how he feels about what the Peter Bömnals Committee is doing, she's taking things in a more complete way, whether he knows it, and if he does it, how well he thinks the Committee is going to be able to move it out of these pieces into a more comprehensive system that grabs people better and doesn't have these endless cracks that people fall into.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u121	V.E.G. President. It's simply because I think people should wait only with more butts that we have suggested that the comments I made in the holographic review, which is why I so strongly stressed that it would be done quickly and well; otherwise, the responsibility is very great not to have added this piece to the cutting shop. Then I'm talking about exactly what this is about the definition of an accident, this with an external event or unexpected, because an unexpected one is opener, it doesn't include who did what, but outside means that someone or something has caused it if you have an accident, there's a difference between the two. The workforce and health insurance in Iceland are actually agreed that this needs to change, but it also needs to be better defined. And instead of quickly working on it, they say, "We'll wait. " But we can't wait long, we have to be ready for the fall election with a permanent implementation of a better and overall social security system, as well as an accident insurance policy. I don't know the exact work that's now on the St. Peter's Committee, I'm referring to a review of the social security, but the ideas that lived on impairments were that when you have a good income for any reason, whether it's due to a good pension, employment, or anything else, there are consistent rules on how it causes impairment, there's no limit to anything I've mentioned at least a dollar that's against a cent, because it's very unuse to be realized that you get 40. K. Out of a pension fund, but it doesn't raise the pension money. This is so today because it was put in as little as possible to ensure the income that had nothing, set as temporary regulations, and has worked well to save the lowest, but, of course, for a very short period of time, it must be adjusted so that the decrease is not against a dollar, but some ratio or such. There's taxes in there, too, then you fall over the pay limits... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u122	Mr. President. Then I'd like to ask. A senator once the highest. Health Ministers each look at the future in his opinion and what it takes to make accidents more stable, they are for everyone, that when you hurt them, you don't have to worry about these financial concerns, and on the other hand, when people become ill and go to service, they don't have to worry financially. Tax taxes in this country are very high, and taxes are not priorities in the first-class health system. No matter where they live, regardless of their education, nurses are now on strike. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he has these numbers or some gross numbers about what it means to be part of the community's safety network, if you get sick or injured, you don't have to worry about money. With those numbers, you can predict in advance whether we can afford it now or when it could happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u123	What we like to deal with during the discussion is that if you simplify it considerably, it will work out two views. It's paying a service through taxes or paying user fees. Unfortunately, we have a government now who would like to transfer this to user fees. It speaks of reducing taxes, of course, never mentioning that this reduces their service, and it wants them to pay for what they receive. It works fair, but it doesn't work fair when you have to pay a heart operation of 1 million or more. It has to be insurance. So I share the belief that we should pay the service of a share, we are to pay it through a joint expense. If everyone shares in it, because not everyone who has to use the ministry is doing so in a better ministry. I have set the criteria, and it's a fine statement if we're going to be in front of the North, we're going to increase the percentage of land production going to the health system. We have an overall impact on the local community, which is somewhere between 1,800,2,000 billion. We use a certain proportion of the resources we get through the health system, and it went up to 9.5,79.8%, even more GDP. The ratio is about 10% elsewhere in the North countries. We went below 9% in the emergency, and we're still nothing on the way up. The budget is not expected to raise this. That's disappointing. We are to set the goal of turning a certain part of our national means into this expense, and we are very well off on health care. It's the same in education. We as a nation want these systems, and we can totally keep them and organize them, but we have to be ready to pay what it costs, and it's not insurmountable, as humans always do, while we're talking about more, many billions, often in banks and so on, we're wondering about ourselves a couple of bucks and money in the medical system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u124	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur - given son of Hannesson for his talk. I think it's a very important thing that he brought on, the very small numbers that have been taken up or expected to increase the improvement in the social security system. If it is the basis that you can read about in the news of a minimum wage increase, it is quite clear that those who have the lowest income for forwards are really being cut apart. I'd like to have a little something to do with this, like why. In his speech, a senator said that it is a great responsibility not to bring this bill with a new piece into the buttock carpet, but to indicate that a complete review of the law is planned within two years. I'd like to ask if we don't have to worry about what the difference between the accident - day money and unemployment insurance has been growing, just for one example, and that it doesn't seem to be planning to raise the accident money, whether it's just not going into trouble, and people who are left in an accident are left in a very bad financial position. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u125	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for the counter-sponsore and the questions. I have to admit, there is a certain delusion in this system like I was discussing earlier. We've talked about it so often because we've had so many conversations sucked, of course, I've been fighting against the Scaring Alliance in terms of raising and other things, but there's a certain delusion in the fact that when you talk about disability and even the cost of accidents and day money and other things like that, it's always necessary to be on some level. It must always be so that everyone else should preferably have a higher salary, at least not lower. They always talk about the motivation for work, and they say that people are trying to get benefits. There is no evidence, however, that there is no evidence. Not one microloaf who has wished to be on disability, but there may be other people who want to improve it. Then they complain. This is the problem, this is a system error that we can talk about in the matter of disability and those who need community assistance through accidents. Of course, you ask questions about the rise, and you must be doing it in the days ahead, now that you're glad you're getting a bargain. I understand that the government has been introducing its part of the afternoon, although it is unknown to the council. It seems to me that in the next three years, men are going to get the minimum to 300 levels. K. Get it? Increase similar improvements? Did the medical spending rise by the same thing? Do the unemployment benefits go up? They wanted to keep them pretty low because they were supposed to be professional. Of course, we realize that there is a need for follow - up work that requires careful effort. They need to make sure that it is available. But there is no room for starving humans, either to stop being cripples or to be cured of accidents or to work if there is no work available.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u126	Mr. President. I think you're absolutely right about what you're doing. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannesson that you are not starving anyone to go to jobs that are not available. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament into another conversation he included in his talk, which has to do with the context of the social security system we have in our country. It's about insurance accidents, i.e. Of course, private insurance, where the goal is to make money for the insurance company. That is why these guarantees are sold as long as the social security system is thought to ensure the well - being of people for whom, whether because of sickness, disability, or unemployment, they cannot support themselves. I'd like to ask you what. Because we're discussing the disaster insurance bill, if it can't create a certain danger if the definition of an accident as it is now in the law won't be changed, because now there's always a considerable part of people who don't get an accident, whether it's a risk that with an unchanged system, we're simply trying to undermine the social security system and force people or frighten people to do anything but to buy personal insurance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u127	V.E.G. President. I believe that it is of utmost importance that we have a good definition of what an accident is and that we share responsibility for improving the victims of accidents and causing them to make progress as they go through the difficulties of the accident. As I came to my speech, there is a great demand to get into this market of private insurance companies, but then, naturally, you have to notice and examine how many companies are divorced when they guarantee individuals and what small letters say, because they have conditions about family history and the family history and this illness, or if accidents happen in the other or in this way, people are not guaranteed or costs much more. What we're talking about is turning into an accident insurance law is the definition of your insurance rights, i.e. The interpretation is too narrow. I want these to be public rights, but not special rights. I want the responsibility that this society can walk, and I want to view this as part of our human rights. We live in Iceland, we're going to make sure we're together, we're going to be responsible for each other, so we can have a good community. Of course, it is easier to say this than to act, but because we've been discussing this and discussing a great deal about disability in this regard, it is often the result of accidents, then the Microcracy Association is now fighting for it and is gathering the signatures to be valid now in the very progressive and simple steps of the covenant of the United Nations. I strongly support their wish. I think it's time we went through it, it's about human rights and respect. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u128	Mr. President. I'm just going to come into this business that's dealing with the accident insurance. In itself, there is not much change from what was, but there are some factors that are worth considering and considering that two other matters agree with this. What separates matters a little is that the rest of the welfare committee is behind this matter, but that is not the case with the following. What I wonder about turns to those who are really loyal. This is a list of accidents, according to Article 7. Among other things, students in trade, legal industry, and occupational studies and those who study health, science, and university students are referred to as students who pursue practical studies. Then there are athletes who participate in sports activities - exercise, performance, or competition - and who are now 16 years old. There's been a lot of pressure on this, because it's been in the hands of the locals to decide whether or not they'll guarantee their students. Now I come out of the school system, and sometimes it's been hard to get benefits from accidents that have occurred during school classes, and parents have always felt that their children were loyal. In some places it is, but in other places it is not, for it is totally selective on the part of society. This is something I believe must come in here as additional members, i.e. that while students in high school are studying or working at school, they are guaranteed by the accident insurance we deal with here. Section 8. considers guarantees of household chores. It's something we choose when we return our tax returns. These include those who may be less fortunate and have less than a few hands, and perhaps the reason is that these people are not sure that they are financially poor, and they probably do not pick up this point in the tax industry, even though these are not large amounts of money, but each dollar is important. They also have children in elementary school and do not even buy private insurance. We may be confronted with too large a group of children living in poverty, and we can't quite control it, either with this or with anything we're dealing with, unfortunately, because there is an opportunity. In addition, if you wonder about your daily allowance in Article 11. and how much money is every day if people have to be away from accidents, which actually get paid from day eight, and they have to have been unable to work for ten days. That's 1,727k. a day, based on the update made by a welfare committee, this is a suggestion. There's not much to buy for $ 1700. As we know. When people really have to live on this money, I don't see how they can. You get almost 400 bucks. for every child you're with. In fact, this is not to be exceeded in 3/4 of the payoff by reformers of the job he was engaged in at the time of the accident. If we are talking about people who are even part - time or no job and injured, then the situation is very sad. I get, like many members of the Parliament, all kinds of mails, and today an e - mail was received to me by an invalid who compared his benefits to the health department's consumption criteria in May. The person says he needs 236,000. per month, based on the criteria except for housing costs. The bank's income is 218,000, meaning that the paid income is about 187,000. The leaders are that the individual is alone and lives in the capital area and is 78,000 in rent, which means that the person would need about 314,000 a month, according to the standards of the Ministry of Health. It's sort of incomprehensible why we're not better able to get these numbers to the standards of the Ministry, either before an collapse or after a collapse. It's that group that you're worried about when it comes to things paid by the state, which are for some reason always too low. I agree with it. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannesson said here earlier. Of course, it's part of human rights to be able to, on the other hand, as a community embraces the people that for some reason we need to enjoy such daily money, and on the other hand, we should take this whole thing, not just into unemployment and accidents, but all the way. Now, we have much discussion about the benefits of those who have a low salary in the workforce. The aims of the Ministry of Health are this outside the cost of housing, and the single person must have 314,000, and they have been demanding 300,000 dollars. minimum wage in the next three years, let alone those with even less. Of course, we're supposed to take the benefits into it too. The reviews of the Work Board and the ASI brought my attention to such things as perhaps others who have discussed this matter, but the Committee decided to allow a general review to await the definition of an accident, i.e. the law on an external event that causes injury to the body of someone insured and does without his will. It is in itself unfortunate that this is being pronounced like this, but I assume that this was an agreement to bring about a future situation. But it is stated in ASI that the accident concept as defined in the bill is neither compatible with international definitions nor with the definition presented by the labour agency. As told by ASI, 2 mg. Section 5. you will not be talking about necessary trips but will be on a normal course and suggest that this article be changed. If I've read correctly, it doesn't seem to me that word change has been achieved, which says in the review, by permission of the president: ▪ In the field of employment or on a normal way to work, there are trips to travel that are taken on the same day between work and home, or restaurants. If a person for his job places of living outside the home replaces his home, the insurance also takes place between home and home. The same applies to longer travel such as this if an employee is on the employer's salary on the trip. Although it is simple to turn it into a physical way of life in this sentence, it has not been taken here. The work board, as I said earlier, shows that the law code of neighboring countries for the reform rights, whether professional disease or work accidents, is not comparable. There are points that confirm that there is much to say about the preemptive work to prevent work accidents, which should, of course, save the community when it is held around, and the definition parts are clear. It seems very often this way in both the law and the regulations that we are setting out for humans to interpret differently, in contrast with the language we have discussed as far as the last days, in which the definition of wording is made and in which people decide to understand the law in different ways. If so, it is very sad. It also says that the workforcer's review of this external event leads to an injury that has been excluded by 55◯97 events each year, including the U.S. because people have given way to excess, they have suffered a work accident. There we are also talking about people in caring classes that bend a lot or are lifting people, etc. Here is an example of an accident that occurred when the door was injured and felt a click on the left shoulder, causing it to pull. This event is not considered an external event or is subject to improvement. In recent years, it may have been that the patient raised something heavy, even the patient, and then the event occurs that the patient does not receive compensation, at least Does that seem to be the result of what's going on at V.I.D.? It is shocking if an insurance agency finds ways to avoid payment on government and accident insurance, as it seems here to suggest. Of course, there is not something to be asked to contribute, even though there is a requirement for good practice and for providing all the available data and all of that. This should not be so burdensome that people give up on seeking their rights. Perhaps that is just one thing that has happened. I have personally heard that people are not looking for their rights because the system is so heavy and so complicated that people give up. I must agree with the workforce that the definition of a work accident is normal. In view of the fact that we were discussing harmony here in the EEA production on authorship and authorship, it is far more important that we can coordinate the law for the better with regard to the definition of work accidents. This is exactly what the workaholics refer to as having comparable statistics that include prevention, as I mentioned earlier, but they say that it is not in this bill that is not what is common in the international order we would like to compare with. I think we must keep that in mind. It's time for this to be separated, i.e. The accidents of your insurance policy, from your social security so that even if you change something in your social security and accept it this way, we are, of course, putting it off to the future to deal with this. It is also of note that the reported protocol in 2011 for the reporting of employment diseases does not appear to have been activated. The difference between what it's like here and in other parts of the North countries is striking. There are, on average, less than 20 employment diseases reported to workaholics. Then, in Denmark some 19,000 job diseases are reported. It's an amazing difference. There's something wrong with this. Something isn't quite right here with us, in spite of the fact that, as we say here, the labour market is about 15 times bigger, since we were allowed to assume about 270 reports of employment diseases in this country. In view of the work board, this means that there may be a possibility of preventing 250 cases of professional health damage or possible disability. It's far more important for society at any moment in advance than paying in this very low level of accident benefits. A respectable president. I had not intended to go anywhere very deep into this, but what I have listened to here today and what I have read and what we have been discussing puts us into more matters. This is part of what turns to the hearts of people who are out here fighting. Also, it is not difficult to apply for all such compensations or what is entitled to people, nor must the amount of money be so low that people can hardly buy their milk and bread, let alone something for the children if they have 2,000 jars. daily to live. I think we can all see that it's not working.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u129	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The speaker agrees with what was presented there. It's a bill where it's the main thing. There are measures that are taking into account accident insurance from the Social Security Act and enforcing a special law code in the custody of the Medical Insurance Agency. This is unfortunate when changing such laws as these would actually have to change content to some extent. Here is the definition and scope of improvements, e.g. Because of employment problems, as well as the sums of funds, where evolution has been less successful than unemployment insurance. Interestingly, the Ministry of Health has provided six prime messages for this council. Three of them are relatively small. There have been small changes that have not required much work. Two came very late and will not be able to walk, and one of them is very small. It's very sad that his ministry did not work on this. That would have been possible. In our memory, we are naturally confronted with the fact that we are not opposed to having this taken into a special law code and that we are just doing it this way. I pondered the debate of the senator and the way this system is growing gradually and ending naturally by people finding other ways. Counts 'em out. A senator in general knows his rights when it comes to insurance cases involving accidents and disease?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u130	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. Certainly, as I said and knew, this is about the form. It's being separated. I agree that it is shocking that people do not take advantage of the opportunity to fix what is pointed out. I feel that some of these definitions, at least some of them, shouldn't need a lot of weight. I feel that there is something to push the problems to the future without trying to put them into words. I think it was suggested that changes should be made, of those who are primarily considering those who are making use of this service. Perhaps, though, the need for well - being may have been based on housing or on things that do not result in such a change in the council, but something is delayed if efficiency is not greater, if things appear late, or if they don't get through. For example, there seems to have been no work on this matter. Of course, when paid people know their rights, they differ as much as there are people. That's why I think such an important organization makes comments, ASI, et cetera. People may turn to the trade union for help when it comes to such things as knowing about their rights, their company and employer, etc., but I'm not sure that many people know these things just because they do. Besides, I think, as I told you before, that the people who are at worst are not taking over, for example, the insurance of the home. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u131	V.E.G. President. There are no questions that burn on me. Senator. This is obvious, and it became evident from making this a separate legal code that needs a new life in accident insurance and putting more money into this system. What happens to another and is happening gradually is that instead of having well-funded government insurance, it leaks into the private market. We know that large groups are not aware of their rights and are either at risk of being disloyal and dependent on this system, which is inadequate, or too much loyalty, and paying into different insurance companies. This is a thought - provoking point for us at the Council. These guarantees are to be well - financed and publicized. Following the provision of the provisional principle, which includes reviewing the law within two years, will be ours in the position of government. There is also concern that in the trilogy of these three bills put forward, there was no sign of change in the subject. All right, there's a way of saying: Okay, here's a morphological change, and that's why these bills have to be taken through, the law is being explained. - But when the time came to reduce rights, it was less trouble to do so without a special professional group coming.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-27-113.u132	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree that, first of all, we need to follow through on the fact that this is going to be revised to see what's going on and that it hasn't been done, above all, these definitions. It must be followed by a travel committee during this period, i.e. for the next two years, the review will even be completed so that the case can be settled within two years, preferably. Of course, we know that money is missing everywhere. That's what worries me most, like what's wrong. A senator said it leaked into the private sector. I'm worried about people in a rented market with excessive low incomes don't make any guarantees at all. They may also be individuals who know their rights by the least of the people whom we are here on earth. Well, that's what I think. Then, when we get a clear picture of what was stated here with the work - related accidents, when reports of them only come in so little that there's obviously something wrong, why is it not an attempt to find solutions and to find out why? There must be an explanation for that. All I believe is that the work force is under the help of the Ministry, if that's what I prefer, in order to give my opinion of what is actually going to be the result of the failure of announcements. We must also want to have comparable rights to what happens in other parts of the North.
