ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u1	Mr. President. We're up to 3rd. of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disorientated People, where various laws are being proposed. Like I said to a 1st. The matter, of course, makes me very happy that there are adjustments that are, of course, necessary to validate the agreement. But as we all know, it is primarily about changing the term disabled in various forms of the word to speak everywhere in law about disabled people. That's the best part. I said 1st. I felt a little sad that there were no material changes in the law, e.g. changes in how the term itself, disability, is defined in the law. Of course, that is something that must have been done. The reason I keep silent now at 3rd. is that I only want to discuss the import of the covenant in connection with that change. As I said earlier, it is best to change wording because wording is important. The way we talk about people matters. It is not only the way we talk about disabled people but also the environment in which we live as a community of disabled people. That is why I would like to remind you of the 28th chapter. In the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, adequate standard of living and social protection is discussed. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The Member States recognize the right of disabled people and their families to a satisfying way of life for them, including those with whom they live. adequate food, clothing, and adequate housing, and for the continuous improvement in life conditions, take appropriate precautions to ensure and contribute to the reality of this right without discrimination. This is part of the essence of the agreement. As we all know, 2nd round is coming. on budgets for 2016, but the budget bill expects a 9.4% rise in terms of recovery from sensibility and disability-employees. V.E.G. As a matter of fact, the secretary of finance said it here in unprepared queries time that the percentage increase would be 9.7%. Of course, it's fine that the percentage is only stirring up, but that does not change the big picture, for this percentage lays on an enormously low payment for micro-energy donors. The responsibilities of desperate and disabled persons only raise the number of people in need. K. a month after taxes. The European Commission has sent a letter to all members of the Parliament that calls attention to this and that the children of pensioners now live in want and do not have the same opportunities as to other children in Icelandic society because of the miseries given to their parents. I think it matters, because as a legislatator, we must do better than just go into the word change, as is here being done. We must also think of the situations in which we are creating people. In the letter that everyone had. Congress is also small on the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled persons and our attention being drawn that there is no budget for continuing work in preparing for the validation of the contract. This must matter to the future, for with the bill that now exists in 3rd. is just one tiny step where we're changing wording. All the big work's left. Sadly, though, there is no room for financial support in that work. It simply suggests that three state - of - law experts at the State Department will be financed to introduce the contract over the next three years. It is suggested that some 35 million people do this each year. Now I don't want to tell you whether the amount mentioned here is necessarily the right one, but I want to agree with the Organization that there's going to be money in this, so that there'll be something really behind the big word that we are going to validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. This deal is so much more than just some word on paper. In fact, this agreement involves a complete change of mind about how we as a community treats disabled people and how we attend a community where disabled people can share just like others. So I've come to the point where I find it extremely important to say to the 3rd. I think it's a good thing that we're going to accept this bill, but it's almost a dose. We must, however, make sure that we are able to earn the dues of the covenant, and we must place extra funds in payment for the pensioners so that they can live with dignity in the community, like 28. It's a deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u2	A respectable president. We're now in the 3rd. ... aboutthiscase. I must admit that when it happened in the fall, I simply thought it was a bill that directly led to the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. Sadly, though, this is merely a word - change bill. In fact, it is very special to see a bill of 30 articles that just includes changing expressions. Instead of the words, a man who was ignored at 2nd. Section 3. track No. 50/1987, for example, about the change in traffic law - should come: a disabled person. That is how it can be counted for a long time. This is a band of many changes in wording, not a set of laws that have a material significance. We held several members of Congress in the fall to propose a resolution of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people to the highest degree. President of the United States, Kristján L. Möller, is our first transporter. The proposal suggests that the government will be committed to validate Iceland's agreement on the rights of disabled people. One report suggests that 151 countries of 157, who have joined the treaty, have already validated it. Since then, the number of countries that have validated it has increased. So Iceland is at the end of the afternoon in terms of validation of this important contract, which Iceland did not warn when signed. I kind of feel that it is the General Assembly to neglect and the government not to force them to validate the agreement itself with the physical effect it will have on the rights of disabled people. One thing is to change wording, as suggested in the bill here for the last discussion, which is primarily a symbol but does not include any material rights for disabled people who need to be able to rely on the rights of the contract themselves. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I'm going to remind you the importance of our Council's decision to receive a subject and to be treated by a committee and to be provided for a future session. It is not such a lawsuit here at the council that national agreements should be prevented from being treated in a judicial discussion. I think it would be a very important entry. Then I would look forward to having a bill here on a song of legal action due to the induction of the contract which is the real project that I would like to see Iceland's Management Board concentrate on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u3	V.E.G. President. I come up here on behalf of the Committee and thank those members of the council who have come here to discuss this matter. In our committee opinion, we agree that this bill is part of the legal reforms that must take place in order for Iceland to validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, as the General has already decided. As members of the Committee, we agree that the importance of such a work should be speedd as possible, i.e. that working with needed improvements will be speedy as possible. It was stated in the review of a disability study center, which came to us on the Committee on this matter, that there were defects in the current translation of the contract, so it is clear that the current agreement has to be reviewed before further consideration is being carried out. It's gonna take a while. I know we're all very impatient and want to do better and want to do better fast, but I encourage men to accept this matter, of course, that's part of our ability to move on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Consley's Konráðsdóttir for this good and important information. Of course, accepting this good thing will not come upon us. I had just noticed this discussion about the significance of the contract in the committee opinion. It is important that the management board is quickly overcome and corrects any faults that may be at hand. But I think we should unite on that here with the release of this case to resolve that we should be allowed to see the bills to come in no later than next year's fall council. It should take a good time to complete a change in translation, set aside validation, and then work on a bill for a subsequent change.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u5	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that answer. I reiterate that we on the board have called for a case to come from councilmen to the Committee and have further been encouraged to arrive earlier so that the committee can cross them in a difficult way. We're not going to be in the General and Education Committee to finish this case when it comes to the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u6	V.E.G. President. I recommend here to the Committee's opinion of changing the law on how to operate on the money fraud and terrorist finance, No. 64/2006, with subsequent changes. The Commission has discussed the matter and has contacted its members from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Organization for finance. The bill suggests some adjustments in the laws on how to act against money theft and the funding of terrorism. 64/2006, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests that there will be a greater demand for dependability on the party's announcements and that the main element of the bill is to analyze the real owner as further described in comments to it. Comments received by the committee and found at meetings on the subject included tips that she felt would be appropriate to consider further. Make adjustments to meet the committees. These changes are in Article 3. are provided for two changes to Article 4. The law of the law, the a- team is suggested to make a state-of-the-art inquiry in the case of transfer of funds that amount 1,000 euros or more or equivalent to that amount in other currency. The b-part is suggested to add a new paragraph to Article 4. The law that calls for the transfer of funds by credit cards fall outside the law's standard that certain conditions be met. In a review received by the Committee, a comment is made on Article 3. that a reliable search should be carried out in the transfer of funds that sum 1,000 euros or more. The review of FAFF's short - term terms is essential, therefore it is necessary to reevaluate the terms of the arrangement. According to FAFF, a security poll is expected to be skipped when a customer is in a permanent business relationship with a financial company, but then a reliable poll has already been conducted. So according to the reviewers, the term "a" is "gr. " changes. The committee agreed to these views and makes the adjustment of its proposal. Then the commission suggests that the money of the law will be changed from foreign currency to Icelandic dollars, which is the legal currency of the country, so that instead of ◯1,000 euros, the amount of the law will be set in place of ◯150,000 dollars. In addition, the committee has received a comment on the rendering of 2 mg. 17th par. The law may not be sufficiently clear about the duties of a financial agency to provide data to a financial agency based on the announcement of another financial agency. The committee believes that it is proper to ensure that the wording is clear and makes a suggestion for clearer wording. It should be noted, then, that the committee received a hint on technical issues that will cause the ambiguity of the final verses of Article 6. Act five, please. The bill will be passed on. They suggest that it be corrected so that the final language of the bill be removed. Finally, the commission received a tip on an out - of - date reference in Article 2. The law. For specific reference, reference to c-mers 1.mgr. of these articles, to the 23rd paragraph. Law on Life insurance, No. 60/1994, obsolete with new insurance laws, No. 56/2010, went into effect. The committee feels the need to change the wording of the law in order to respond to this comment. What may be the point of this issue is that the Committee considers the bill to be a failure to respond to FAFF's comments, thus strengthening international commitments in this field. In view of this, the Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes listed in the Committee, and I don't think it necessary to read. Under these publications are six members of the Economic and Business Committee, these are Frosti, Sigurjónsson, Brabbur Níelsson, Stigrim J. Sigfússon, Össur Skarphéðinsson, Ásmundur Daðason, and Sigríður Á. Andersen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u7	A respectable president. The subject presented here is now relatively simple and innocent; the induction of change is due to comments that have been received on the legal basis of money laundering. This case, like a whisk. A manager has told us, happened to the Economic and Business Committee, but here, a big change takes place. I've been sitting around every meeting of the Economic and Business Committee since autumn, except for one week where I was absent, and that was the week of the change, November 18th, and there was never a discussion of changing the financial boundaries as suggested in the 2nd cycle, i.e. of the a-mer 3. g., changing this 1,000 euros to 150 yards. K. I now ask in this hall - of course, too small to ask such a big question: Here is a common market, and I believe the common market is probably one mill in the kroner. If you plan to take these figures, which have the money limit and are usually listed in the euro, you will have all laws. Somewhere I could see that it was because the dollar was legal in Iceland. It's just that it has nothing to do with it. The currency is the currency that's obliged to take over for a full-blown debt. But we're here talking about the budget and we can use any coin. I'm just going to remind the U.S.R. that long, during the years since 1918, parking tickets were determined in gold jars and no bridges. So I ask the Senate to exercise caution when it comes to agreeing to a change according to the 2nd Amendment. The fact that this change is going to do a doll -- I first saw her in a draft that committee party this week and I believe that we're here on a pretty high track, so let's take a dollar limit in this introduction, since we have this common market, to a thorough view in one piece, and don't let a whim rule as this is done. By the way, I'm stopping here, but I'm looking at it. Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson will answer me, and I will address them a second time if he comes up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u8	In case of a moment. paritaprevir Will Bjarnason believes that we are on high ground having a dollar instead of euros, he has not gone to serious trouble. Of course, whether we use crowns or euros is of little importance. I have to say, I didn't think this was an occasion for such a long talk, okay? paritaprevir Will Bjarnason. Perhaps they have been under concern with the committee that the euro had become such a poor currency that people did not trust it for the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u9	A respectable president. This is an occasion far longer than I thought; I spared the Senate a longer edition of my speech. But this has nothing to do with the quality of the euro. The dollar may well be good for her bridge in this country; she's certainly legal in this country, and she's paid off to pay her dues. But here we are talking about the financial boundaries on the inner market, and we're talking about a common internal market, a uniform internal market, and this is all about it. I believe that if decisions like this are made in the Economic and Business Committee, they should be discussed. I allow myself to say again and again that at this time, I don't remember how the weeks were over there, it was just never discussed, probably up until November 9. If you are making decisions like this, you should discuss this before a complete committee. But, fortunately, I'm not at this committee party, they didn't ask a opinion any other way than they did at any one time in the mail. At least, when there's a vote, I'll vote against this change. I know why. paritaprevir Hermes the Brynjar of Níelsson will do the same in the end. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u10	V.E.G. President. I'm trying to figure this out; what's the damage and what's the damage, and don't we reach the goal of this bill, which is the suggestions of the group mentioned here, FAFF, even though we have paid off? I can't figure it out. The inner market is not even full of euros, and the dollar is our currency. I'm just trying to figure out what the damage is and what it matters. Well, maybe. A senator informed me of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u11	A respectable president. I hope this isn't important. However, it is important that we have a common internal market in which most of these countries have euro in their legislation. What matters is that this matter is not relevant. We are talking about the amount of money, and it is stated in the unit named Euro. That may be the case, and it has been the case that, unfortunately, money limits in dollars have not been held. But there's another arm. It may well be that there will be a special protection here at the future council to correct the financial boundaries because of the wisdom of the occasion. Senator. [[Up front.]] - Do I have the word or what? Senator? It may well be that at this future council, people will take a special month to go through the budget so that they will live up to the commitments we have made. But I think I made my point. I thank you for a good sound in other respects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u12	A respectable president. I thank you for the fine discussion that has taken place here on the subject and then on the so - called sidebar that deals with the currency of Icelandic law. Out of consideration for those who have to comply with the law and use a general Icelandic crown in their business dealings, it would have been more convenient for you not to have one eye on the registration of the currency to know whether you are guilty or not of Icelandic law. It is one of the advantages we have by having a common currency or the independent currency that the law can be quite clear. There's been something to talk about. A senator, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason's son, that he thinks this is important about the internal market, but in this case we're talking about a recommendation coming from FAFF, whose roots are not in the inner market, but in other countries that go far beyond it and have many other clients other than the euro, and have not disturbed them to have any money in their terms. I just wanted to come right away because I don't think it's a special problem or especially practical to use foreign currency in the law. It is natural for those who have to comply with the law to be clear at any given time. This is much less disturbing for those in the country, even if every few years we find out if there is a basis for such spending than for hiding it all day long and checking out whether it is within or outside any amount of money by observing the success of the gang.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u13	There was no question in this, so I don't have to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u14	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee of General and Education in this case. It's a short look. We approached our guests and discussed the matter. We believe that it would be appropriate to agree with the viewpoint expressed in this view that the European Catholic Church Report on the response and practices of the Catholic Church in Iceland due to the charges of sexual immorality or other acts of violence by dedicated servants and other church employees may be the basis for the decision of a minister, under the authority of a committee, to accept the demand for fair compensation for treatment. We suggest that the matter be agreed on as it was, and that is what all the members of the committee would write, i.e. The one standing here. Councilmen Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Ríkharðsson, Helgi Gunnarsson, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur Árnason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u15	A respectable president. I recommend here for a bill of what? Economic and Business Commission, bill to legalize the financial law, no. 161/2002, with subsequent changes as it is called. The bill is moved to correct the mistakes made in the process of changing the bill to legalize the law of income taxes, a law for special taxes on financial companies and financial companies. That was a case of No. 172th at this assembly, which was done earlier this month. During the development of the modifications at that time, one cause fell from 3mg. 103. g. a Act on financial enterprises where the plan was to add the 8th case was added without completing any relevant support. Interpretation by failure, and here it is suggested that the law be added again came first into the Law of Change No. 78/2011, who changed the law No. 161/2002, requiring that the urgent agreements of the two-party groups depend on the terms of bankruptcy laws, with a delay of 1 mg. 51st par. It should be eight weeks, and wear off control has the role otherwise played by the switcher. The bill recommended here does not mean any material change from the previous law; it is merely a reinstatement of the law of No. 161/2002. I then make a recommendation that the case be referred to a second issue. after this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u16	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill of the Economic and Business Committee to legalize the law on real estate sales and ships, No. 70/2015. The subject of the bill is that the Economic and Business Committee wants to respond to the indications it has received as a result of a new overall embargo on property sales and ships, No. 70/2015, which took effect on July 20th. Since the implementation of the law, experience has revealed several opportunities to improve legislation, but this committee's bill is only responding to factors that might be considered urgent. In the processing of the bill, the Committee had consulted with the Fégagi Act of real estate sales, the student's advocate of law-registry, the Real estate commission, the retail agent of real estate halls and the Department of Legal Affairs. There was a conference on the subject of the bill on the financial and business committee and I would like to thank the members of the Committee for a generous contribution to the issue. With law No. 70/2015 which replaced law No. 99/2004 was the rule that had previously been valid for the sole person allowed to pass through to others for purchase, sale, and exchange of property or registrational ships that have the legal rights of a businessman. The Lawgiver's request was made that individuals who do not have legal rights should not deal with projects requiring legislation, whether it is done under the cover of a legitimate real estate salesman or in a special partner. However, it has been found that it is normal to allow a measure of space in certain situations and with clear conditions. First of all, it is considered right to install permanent laws that students of legalized institutions have authority to obtain professional experience under the guidance of a legitimate real estate agent. Second, salesmen who worked as such for validation of law No have to be given. 70/2015 opportunities to do more about the defined work under surveillance and the responsibility of a legitimate realtor while they attend a legal school. Third, it is reasonable to consider the particular number of salesmen who have both high and high rates of real estate sales and high life spans. It has also been found to be the 14th chapter. current legislation may limit the work of real estate dealers, e.g. in smaller settlements. Is the purpose of this bill, among other things, to clarify the regulations of Article 14. Act by law to ensure that the relevant rules of real estate sales are in line with the good habits of real estate. That's 3rd. suggested that the requirement to have worked at real estate sales for a total of 12 months in order to obtain a minimum of six months, as the study itself has now become much more subjective. I will now review key articles of the bill and their contents. About 1st par. is that in law law law law, legal values have been conditioned for 12 months as a full-time position in real estate sales, but in view of the fact that in recent years the study itself has become significantly more current and now takes two years, the committee feels that the requirement for professional experience will be reduced to six months in full - time with a legitimate real estate salesman. Two. it suggests permanent regulations allowing students in law school working for real estate dealers to help property dealers with some of the projects that only legal property dealers can work under the law. The work permit, however, depends on the fact that the projects are always being carried out on the responsibility and under the supervision of a legitimate real estate salesman. Since one of the conditions of legislation is a work experience, it is reasonable for students to be able to gain the appropriate experience, but it would not have been permitted by the same law. To get the job warrant, it is condition that the student has completed one semester of the study with an adequate average and applied for registration of a list except for a real estate security committee. The list is preserved at the Ministry. The warrant is two years from the time it is given, but if there is a reasoned argument, such as serious illness, accident, or other uncontrollable or unpredictable circumstances, the deadline may not be sufficient, the student can directly apply for an additional deadline in order to complete a college study with the Realty Committee. In the 3rd. discusses the change in 14th paragraph. The law of the law is designed to simplify and explain the relevant rules of property sales and to respond to indications given to by the Commission on law. 70/2015 would have set unnecessary limits on the veneer. The committee believes that in certain cases the consumer's interests may be protected by the obligation of a realtor to inform his relationship with the parties and provide information that he may have and may matter rather than ban the involvement of the real estate dealer in any case. In the current law, a real estate salesman is prohibited from selling property if he, his partner, employee or employee's partner is owner, also if the owner's owner's property, duty, or mother's owner's property is owned in a bone stem or otherwise connected by adoption. The committee feels that by other means you can go beyond what needs to be done. 1st sentence 1st. Section 3. is unchanged from the current law and forbids real estate dealers and employees to purchase property that is hidden from real estate for sale. The 2nd and 3th counts those associated with the real estate dealer or his employee in a way that makes it reasonable that the prohibitions on the sale of certain assets also apply to these assets. This committee is based on comments at 1 mg. 14th par. in the bill submitted by the last council of 280th, as well as the list of 2nd Teams a and b. 14th par. The law. It is suggested that, although the rest of the article may lead to a real estate agent choosing to inform his customers of his other relationship with the owners, the only direct relationship would be considered. Two. It involves a change from the principle that a real estate salesman is forbidden to take possession of his products if he or those associated with it, as defined by 1. mg, are the owners of the property or parts of it. The exception is that real estate sales are permitted to take possession of goods as property connections are listed in the sale record of the individual property. In addition, a real estate agent will have to ensure that a prospective candidate writes under a specific declaration that he knows about the property connection before the offer is made. It is not enough for such a statement to be offered but for a general explanation. In all respects, a realtor will be the result if he has not been able to inform that such a special declaration of a prospective candidate has been made before an offer was made in that possession. In view of law 15. track No. 70/2015 would likely be considered a crime on property sales or on 2 mg to his employees. 14th par. would be a serious betrayal of trust. 3 mg. it then discusses special information that the real estate agent or his employees may possess as relevant for the sale. It is suggested that, rather than forbid the value of an intermediate real estate dealer who has such information, the obligation of a real estate dealer will be established to differentiate from the content of such information that may have to do with the property or owner and may have meaning for the sale. Since real estate agent has such evidence burdened by this information, and it depends on his opinion, it must be assumed that real estate dealers will choose to inform on relevant issues, e.g. if another buyer or dealer is involved in a real estate sale, e.g. because of his close cousinship, without having to join the group mentioned in 1st. However, in the case of information as a real estate agent, you must not give, e.g. On account of the interests of third parties or even of law, the strict prohibition of the law against selling property through property. 4 mg. unchanged from the existing law, and places it upon the landlord to inform the parties in a real way that he would have any other interest than those involved in paying the fee and cost. In the current law, there is a contradiction in the 3rd paragraph. The law states that law degrees 90 units than 26. The same law is granted to a minister to set the number of units. In Comb 4. The bill is therefore corrected by dismissing the minister's authority to set the number of units. About 5. is to say that the criticism has been heard on the part of those who have worked for a longer time as traders without getting the rights to legalize that this law has not given enough time to adapt. The committee wants to meet those who have served for years as real - estate merchants and suggests that salesmen of real estate sales who had been involved in employment sales for more than one year on July 20, 2015 will be authorized to assist with certain jobs on the real estate responsibilities and under their guidance until the first semester of study, after which a student can apply for permission to help with the same project as Article 2. This bill. It is also conditional in Article 5. that as soon as September 1, 2016, a salesman will enter into law school and pursue it. In order to eliminate any doubt, however, it is proper to note that a salesman with the warrant may move around and consult with other real estate dealers within the source period, while the requirements of the arrangement are otherwise met. Around 6. is to say that this law provides a permanent release for a distinct group of salesmen. It is reasonable to think specifically of the particular group that we take into account law No. 70/2015 had both a high age and a high age in selling real estate. This is a group that has made real - estate sales their lifetime and may have limited opportunities to approach others because of age. It has been observed that there are few individuals. It is therefore suggested that if you fall into this category, you can apply for the expanded access to the real estate check-up committee which confirms that they meet the requirements for life and age. Those who want to use the above sources to help with projects that are only legalized real estate halls, whether in the case of law-enforcement courses, salesmen who intend to pursue legal school or organisations that meet the requirements for working age and life, need to apply for a warrant to the head of the Real estate Reconesses that evaluate these applications and introduce a list of those who have the authority. The list is stored at the Department of Legal Affairs. 7. is about the recording. The committee suggests that the changes are already valid.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u17	A respectable president. It's like a previous case that says you can't walk away from a town without doing things that power doubles. In order to maintain all things, there was a spokesman in this case adopted at the General Assembly of July 9, the General Act on real estate sales and ships. As with other human works, something may have been done that may not be fully understood. In this case, I especially refer to the 14th Amendment Order. The law, it's a bit stiff, and in many places in the country where there are few real estates and people's relationship may be the result of not being fit for any real estate agent. The changes suggest that the venslin may be illuminated and turned aside, as well as it is in the law of selling real estate and ordering that when property is sold, a person who buys and the custom has created on this land to pay a fee that would prevent the buyer from building to a government agency apart from the property sales of which is the right to the buyer and seller to be reasonably loyal, first of course by informing on vensa and second, of course, by the authority involved, by the people who are buying and who are able to call to assist a professional or to the department minister. Similarly, the words "big " and" units " in Article 4. The bill allows the minister to discuss the scope of the study, but other articles in this bill I just don't understand, excuse me. I'm completely overwhelmed by knowledge. For example, here we have a student authority on this subject. I don't know that any part of this bill is covered with students in real estate, and it's coming in here completely new. It has not been stated in any local law or previous law that a salesman, a sales agent, or any job title is not permitted to show property. It suddenly speaks of showing real estate, for a seller's approval is in itself. All the things listed in 2 st. this bill to legalize the change of real estate law and orders - I believe the employee of real estate sales is permitted to assist. For example, I read on the websites of two different courts in Reykjavík, the province of Reykjavík and the Supreme Court, that there are helpers. Supporters will likely assist judges in the contract, and in the same way, the managers of real estate dealers are helping to build a record of sales and purchases, helping real estate sales to produce financial contributions. This is all in the nature of the problem, and there is no need to state it further in the law, for students will first appear in the expected changes of the law, in which this will be presented at once to the 8th paragraph. I think it's totally unnecessary and totally out of control. There's also 5 p.m. magazine on the authority of real estate dealers to hire helpers. It's just a matter of nature, and this law is absolutely unnecessary. The 20 - year work experience and 50 - year - old life span are spoken of. Where do these figures come from? Are these grammatical numbers, or are they just falling out of the sky? The manager of this case, my dear. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson says this applies to a very few. I ask them: If it is known that this applies to a very few people, would it not be appropriate to establish just what these are and to mention in the legislation that this applies to a particular person? Just as I've said before, it's unnecessary. I'm probably a member of this Economic and Business Committee that's transporting the bill. I'm leaving myself as a carrier on this bill. I just want it to come out. I don't think most of it's necessary. It is proper and reasonable to respond to comments about vensulas and related relationships as well as with the number of units, but the rest is unnecessary, and this will be evident in the normal discussion of the Committee. I think this should go to the Committee, and I'm going to reexamine the members of the committee of these matters. Finally, I can't help being able to see that some of these interests are very unpleasant to me. For example, a man who calls himself a salesman with a lot of experience and says that he calls for 400 salesmen at real estate sales and threatens that these 400 salesmen whom most people prefer will not choose the Independence Party if this is not changed. This kind of threat doesn't mean you can live. If these 400 men don't want to vote for the Independence Party, I'm just gonna say there are more classes, but there are 300 of you. consumers in this country and these legislation on property sales and ships are not to protect salesmen, it is not to protect real estate halls - it is for the protection of consumers. I ask, then, that is the subject of the discussion: Are these factors an increase in consumer protection, or what is this for? As I say, this is absolutely unnecessary. I have given every reason to go through older law and new law. I can't see that any of those changes were made on the law on property selling and ordering from older law outside that the exclusive right to commercial sales is canceled. Also mandatory is the partnership with the real estate dealer, for the Supreme Court passed that this was not compatible with a constitution or a civil rights agreement. Another one of these legislations had long since come in, i.e. with the 2004 legislation. If the Commission hadn't followed law on real estate sales, it's just too sad to say that. This is how I expect this case to go to the Economic and Business Committee for normal treatment. I've finished my case, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u18	Mr. President. I recommend to the Committee's Committee my share of the employment board on bill for the legislation on marine and water research and bill for the adjustment of various laws due to the integration of the Agency's CREEP and the Fishing Agency. The minority points out that in the early projections, it is recommended that all personnel of the National Institute of Research and Fishing and Fishing Centres will be submitted to the new institute, Marine and Water Research Centres. The minority is a requisite to what was presented in his opinion of the last council when the bills of the same material were discussed. It stated that it was urgent to consider much more carefully the affairs of employees in the union of the institutions. It was also noted that it was claimed to the committee that staff and trade unions had not been adequately consulted to ensure that the ideal employees were not affected. The workers then stressed that the legal rights of employees to business ventures must be adopted. In view of the loss of the previous council, a report by the Ministry of finance was also referred to in December 2008 regarding the harmony of the state stocks and related changes in which the court stated the following: (b) Why is it important for Jehovah's Witnesses to consider closely the role of cohesion in building new institutions on the human resources that will be united? It is not enough to examine just what changes will be made to an appropriate institution, to a state's funds, to users of the ministry, or to those who are in their presence. The minority still underlined and insists that the union is not a worker's law, and it can also be noted that the reports and promises of rephrasement in vague terms create turmoil among them and increase the likelihood of debates about the matter. In addition, the review of the official financial office at the bill of the last Parliament showed that there could be some difficulty in evaluating the efficiency of the union of the stocks and that the cost of single action could also be considerable, such as remuneration, preparatory work, and changes in housing. A discussion of the case in the Committee pointed out that the key to successful reform was to include employees from the beginning and that there would be no doubt that their rights were not affected by the change. In addition, doubts about the process of completing work will be described as the only thing that will be the change in the organization rather than the conclusion of the task itself. For a discussion of the matter, the government could make changes in the state of state, on the basis of Article 19. track No. 70/1996, on the rights and duties of the workers of the state. At the same time, it has been pointed out to the committee that governments have previously chosen a way other than decomposed work together. The minority feels that it is right to be equal to government officials with their institutions and to be moderate. At the time of the creation of a walking room, there was a law on the legal status of employees in exchange for companies, no. 72/2002, showing this willingness to hold salary, education, and other rights. Their primary goal is that if a new party accepts another person's assignments, it should not lead to an individual's having to accept a worse option. The minority therefore feels strongly that the majority of the items clearly refer to the legal status of employees in the exchange of enterprises in their proposal to make changes. The minority points out that there is no discussion of the evidence for a united union in the opinion of the greater part and that neither professional nor financial benefits have been demonstrated by the cohesion. In other words, there is no question as to why a hunting agency should be joined by a Merition Institute and does not consider it to be the least obvious that a hunting agency is the best subject to the sector of the industry and the Ministry of Economics. At the same time, the memory of a discussion of a general debate over institutions has lasted for some time and has been suggested that the Agency may well fit the Environment and Resource Ministry and that it would be worthy to investigate the possibility of its mixing with the EEA or the National Institute of Natural Sciences in Iceland. Finally, the minority points to, as well as to their correct opinion from the last council, that a real challenge lies in establishing a new institution to ensure that professional benefits will be guaranteed. It is very important to do well in this process, and it is unwise to disrupt it by arguing about the discretion and position of employees who are the main wealth of the institutions. The lesser part is a adjustment to the case proposed in a special Senate document. That's what's going on here, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. I find that the changes made by a professional employment committee have been proposed and will be presented below. I myself was not on a job committee when this adjustment proposal was made. Rather, my deputy, Lárus Ástmar Hannesson, is written for the change proposal that will be presented to the institution which will come out of the unity of these institutions if the bill is accepted and made legal. I will support the renovation motions. Otherwise, we'll have left green sitting by in this matter and I'll refer to what is presented in my committee's list of opinions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u19	V.E.G. President. I come here primarily to introduce to you the change in the name of the new united organization to which I am the 1st transporter. Well, that's the worst thing to say, like a whale. paritaprevir Soon, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir that things have changed, so today all committees are on the motion of a changed name. This is simply a modification proposal for a bill to set up marine and water research, a 199th suit. 466. The following members of Parliament, as well as the above, follow this suggestion: Lárus Ársus Ástmar Hannesson, Jón Gunnarsson's son, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Þórunn Egil's Egilsdóttir, all at once. Councilmen on the pro board. As we have seen, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, why. A professional official, this proposal too, but why. paritaprevir When the matter was taken out, Lárus Ástmar Hannesson was a substitute deputy, and that is why his name is on the motion. This is how the proposal begins, with President's permission: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Instead of the words 'tea and water research' in Article 1. Come on: Oceanographic, research and advice centres of the seas and lakes. 2. Instead of the words'slash and water research' in 1st mg. Section 3. come: Marine study centre, research and counselling centres of the marine and water systems Then, in several other locations at the bill, ocean and water research is being taken out according to this modification proposal. Team 10 says, with permission from the President: The bill's headline goes on to say: Cells to legalize the Marine Research Institute, the research and counseling agencies of the seas and lakes. So it is suggested that the new agency be named Marine Research Institute with this subtitle, which, of course, appears in all data, such as letters and reports. I'm going to give a few words about this new name-change proposal, and I'd like to say at the outset that what I'm going to do here is a very well-trained speech by a former member of the Council, Mörður of the Year's Árnason, who has helped me to promote my logic. I have to say to you that he has helped me before, that he helped me while I was a travel minister, when they were working to understand the construction and monitoring facilities in transportation. He was one of the cohesive authors of Vega's construction institutions and Shining Institutes, which merely wanted to call her Vega with the argument that seafarers go too far. To support this name, I would like to say the following: It's hard to find a name for this new agency. It requires research and advice, such as research in the sea, lakes, land, and rivers. Happily, rivers and lakes can be returned by a single word, lakes, according to the famous words of the son of Veletstein:'now the waters are dropped to the Vésteinn Vésteinsson's soil, and the famous and old laws of the lakes for all waters to flow like the ancient stream. However, there is no common name for sea and water. The remaining problem is to assemble in one name, ocean, water, and research. There is also a need for public work. You could say that the term on the bill, ocean and water research, is very out of control. Therefore, the argument is this: First, it involves two combined words, the first statue, and the connection between the combination of ◯ and ◯. Of course, this is a well - known but not a convenient way. A few departments have such names, but in reality most people just use the other compositions and talk, for example, about the Department of Employment and Environmental Affairs and forget innovations and resources. Second, it seems that the former joints are not compatible. Linguists say that there are two basic ways to create a combination of Icelandic words with so - called fusions and so - called fragmentation. The town's name, Smokeholt, is considered to be a compound, but both smoke fun and Reykjavík are property alliances. The bill has both, research has become a composite, but water research is a unit. Third, the name of any phenomenon is missing. The names of the countries end most of their institutions, offices, stations or centres, committees and countys or names that clearly describe their field of work, such as schools, hospitals, hospitals, and funds. Then there are institutions named after the office involved. For example, the chief police officer in the East and the Children's Manager. After a bit of a search, I see only one parallel to the promise proposed in the bill, Icelandic energy research. However, it is a private firm, though owned, and developed in 2003 from a field of research, such as the development and diagnosis of educational studies. I see no reason to reduce the new institution that it is under the government and to have similar names to those of the same institutions, such as Fishing Room, Food Institute, Natural Science Institute, New Creation Center, Energy Institute, EEA, etc. That is why I propose that the new institution named after one of its institutions, a marine research agency, would then be the name. It could continue to be called Hafro, the name of the Agency, the Institute of Fishing, far less suitable for the new agency. In this regard, there are both sizes and material reasons. The new institution is certainly involved in fishing in water and water, but more is involved, both in the use and in the field of research. Clearly, having an old term held together by such an old form of union can cause pain. Experience shows, though, that such wounds quickly heal if there is otherwise good integration. There are recent examples of this. One is Iceland's Weather Room, which was then called upon to cooperate with water measurements from the Power Institute. Another is the type of road that was chosen to be in a new development agency after the production of transport, so we now have a subsystem, the navigation field of the Vegas. The third example is the Founding of the Year Magnús, in Icelandic studies, where the name of the five Icelandic institution was chosen as the main name for the united five institutions in this field. The way this is suggested is quite the same as the last one. The main vow comes from another of the old organisation, which further explains in a subtitle where the workspace of the Agency is more clearly defined, i.e. Marine research, research and counseling agencies of the seas and lakes. A respectable president. This is the logic which I would like to contribute and we on this proposal. I am especially glad that all committees are united in transporting them. I'm sure that'll be a great improvement. Without the fact that I'm going to extend this discussion, I'd like to say that when people start talking about, for example, the hunting counsel of the Institute of Marine Research, as it is said today, they can talk about fishing advice from sea and water research or what we want to do. I think I've offered enough reasons for this, which is part of the fact that every member of the pro board is a messenger of this transition. I just want to conclude my first talk about shutting down the Agency, but also celebrate the approval of 2nd. • developing proposals for the rights of employees and the rights of rights that I believe have been greatly improved, although I have, in effect, disagreed with the way of putting the institutions first down and then uniting them into new ones. Finally, I wish for the new institution of all the best in my work and staff. I hope that in a new united organization, there will be as much and as powerful a work as it is now being accomplished at a CREEP Institute and a Vegetarian Institute.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-30-44.u20	A respectable president. I'm here making a new proposal for a bill to set up marine and water research on the threshing floor. 471 to 199, a greater part of the employment committee as Jón Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, and Egilsdóttir Engelsdótir: 1st sentence 10 pars. Put it this way: This law is valid for July 1, 2016. And then I just want to use this opportunity to thank you for your second suggestion, okay? paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller, for a better term for Meritional Research Institute. I'm very comfortable with this. Thank you.
