ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u1	A respectable president. I recommend more of that committee party. The Economic and Business Committee for the Motion of Change. 379. The case was referred to what. The Economic and Business Committee between the 2nd and 3rd. and discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs. The committee saw the need to make adjustments in addition to those made at 2nd. I'll lead them to the threshing floor. 354. These changes were reported in a panel of committees on decks. 353. The changes made by more than a part of the Economic and Business Committee are now proposed in the first place to change to Article 3. The bill that deals with the law of a special tax on a financial enterprise, No. 155/2010, a so-called bank tax. This change aims for the same objective as the bill, i.e. the obligation to pay the bank tax in 2016 to the legislators who will end the treatment by contract. This change results from the deadlines proposed to the 3rd step of the transition to the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee submitted between 2 and 3. Second, a change in cross-reference is suggested, resulting from other changes made on the bill. Third, no. 60/2015, the new provision will be added temporarily. The 2nd. the revised motion of the arrangement was to explain more fully the contents of the law so that it could not compromise the course of 1 mg. It would be intended to include the legislators who have completed the break-up treatment with a confirmed fixed-up contract prior to March 15, 2016. The majority of the Committee also considered it proper to make a two - year decision. The ensued only the legislators who have already completed broken treatments with a confirmed contract but who have not been able to keep it by payment because of the financial crisis. A local law has ruled that bankruptcy is still under the tax law on stable taxes. Under this view and these adjustments in the form of publications. Senators Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson, chairman of the Committee, Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, and Willum Þór, son of Þórsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u2	Mr. President. As noted earlier, this situation is at a high rate. We talked about it yesterday, 2nd. and the proposed changes that were very extensive. Today it was found that they were inadequate, and we now have a big three - point motion, which we are expected to introduce as long as the discussion takes place and put ourselves in. I'm one of those who don't agree with the lack of information and speed on this matter. I want to ask you why. A senator. This has been shown in the case of the Supreme Court. The secretary of finance to this case and the information related to the stability criteria and the information on the elimination plan and all these are different issues and should not be mixed. That's why I want to ask, "Why is it getting so fast in this matter? " Is this a matter of stability? If not, why are we hurrying so quickly? How is that in the mind of the senator? This is an important matter for us to take the way that we have no information about. Then I'd like to ask you why this speed? It's November 5th.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u3	A respectable president. First, the rate of treatment for this matter. Since the bill was submitted at the end of September, it has been in here and was recommended at the beginning of October. So this has been discussed in the Commission for a month. It may be right to make a decision that the crisis is not so fast. On the other hand, the lawgiver himself made it a condition in the past summer that those who listed as taxpaying in the law of stable taxes - so that they could fall outside that tax lawgivers themselves required that they have completed their contracts and have received a confirmed contract from a regional court before a year's convention. For example, in the summer, the payment of a law on stable taxes meant that there might be a problem, especially taking into account the court's court's treatment rate. It is known that the broilers who are now trying to complete their break - up agreements with the demanding workers will need to announce a meeting and have a contract confirmed by all the demands. Such witnessing takes weeks. Thereafter, the matter must be presented to the courts. As the situation today is based on the dates currently available, it is almost impossible that a federal statement will be able to confirm the need agreements, if that is the result, by the end of the year. [[The president calls.]] That is why this is the case today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u4	V.E.G. President. There's probably a hurry to this case, for coming in through a huge array of changes that were not published. Today, just before 4 p.m., these adjustments did not exist. They were probably made in the Ministry of Economics and submitted just back to the Committee. We had not seen them before this meeting was called in. It's fast, unless it's rough. A senator has another understanding. Then you should state that they are asleep. The members of this court vote will vote for it by being paid for the stability process without knowing whether it threatens payment, without knowing what plan to take over, and what to vote for the public in Iceland through a pension fund, a business and itself will be followed by seas. They're not related. This is a perfect prerequisite for walking in a way that we cannot find accurate information. Wait a minute. Councilmen to bear in mind that when this case is over here, they will have no further access to the case in order to keep the rulers of the government in check. It may not be the idea of the executives here that they are watching the executives, but that they are simply going to bow down in the grass and do as they are told, and then they're going to be paid for that vote. You're dealing with enormous national interests and should think seriously about what you're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u5	A respectable president. As regards the current adjustment proposals, it should be decided that they are just to explain the previously discussed changes that were mainly discussed all day long. Of course, the man's long words may be used in an explanation, but it became clear that the subject of the adjustment was made and treated at the moment. The Economic and Business Committee for a month. [[Up front.]] In terms of potential wearout options, the elimination of broken-outs by contracts is subject to the evaluation of the Official Bank on official. I expect that. Councilmen have studied this report on the dozens of pages on the effect of these cases with a forced agreement on the so - called payment problem. It is the evaluation of the World Bank and of those who have discussed this aspect of the matter, the management board on emissions of capital and financial services, that the solution that has been presented does not pose a threat to economic and financial stability. So it is not true. A senator said that there was no information on the consequences of wearing a contract with his demands. That's not true at all. There are reports on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u6	A respectable president. I just wanted to say 3rd. this matter to review in our discussion the comments we received this afternoon from Invenge. I don't think it's possible that they're not discussed here at the conferences before this change bill is taken out of here by the General. It is very special to see all the releases that are involved in this case by the government and the secretary of finance and how the race is run in through the legalization of the adjustment proposals into the affairs of the committee. There must be another concern about the way things are done. This is particularly shocking because of the secrecy of this case and because of the fact that nothing has been revealed about the material basis for the decision being taken and the importance of society. This does not add to our credibility and our confidence that the only shot that is in the gun is being used when we see the comments of Invenence that were sent today. It is of great interest that they agree completely with the doubts we have raised in the management situation during the past few days and weeks and that includes the misleading laws of the government on the extent of policy development and survival. In the analysis of Invenence, it is very clear that if you look to the calculated interest predicted by the World Bank, foreign demands will be obtained by the contributions the government is now making to take away from the land of more than 500 billion dollars, over 500 billion of the dollars that will be turned into foreign currency, and that currency will have to come from somewhere. True, they do not go out tomorrow and not the day after, but it is made up a new snowpant into time that is not equipped how to melt in ways other than falling over the public in the country, businesses, and pensions. That's the real danger. These 500 billion, which the government is going to give foreign claimors a chance to turn into currency, are added to the foreign property of the swellingers to 1,150 billion that they carry free and free. It is very important to put these facts into context and these figures in context. However, when the Council of Nations lasts for the next three years very optimistic predictions of national prosperity, assuming that there will be much more economic growth in any other country in the Western world, it is expected that all the three succeeding years will only be able to create 110 billion in a foreign currency that will be available and that it will need all to pay off debts. That is why the promise is so dangerous that the requirements for leaving time, after seven years, with 500 billion, no one can explain how to find a currency to move out of the country. No attempt has been made to detect this long-term efflux pressure. The only remuneration analysis we've seen, the same as assuming to be only 110 billion in three years, assumes that the public's pension funds will be made out with no more or less, a respectable president, and 10 billion a year when the financial expenses are at least 10 billion a year. Ten times that money. That's the setting that's really a big concern. Then, when we face the fact that this is a night with an additional change that no one has seen and the administrative part intends to take care of them in the evening darkness, it makes you creep over the rest of the situation, and you naturally worry about how firm it is when these releases become clear. I'm not going to extend this discussion for unnecessary reasons, but I felt it was inevitable that I would deliver the warning again to the 3rd. The point, because there's no shooting again. After agreeing to the rest of the money, the secretary of finance promises 500 billion of the domestic property that we will have to provide them with a currency to get away with. It will not then be the currency that will be a provision for the Icelandic pension fund to strengthen their capital and remain under the future pensions of all of us. There will not be any currency available for our companies in the country or for other needs as a nation. It is a generous contribution on the part of the government that once said that he was going to face foreign claimors and vultures with clubs and demand that Iceland's most respected interests be promised to them by the same vultures today, unquestionedly, to be released after several years in foreign currency, for the nation's five-fold currency capacity for the next three years. It is called, and it can easily be seen as early as it is when people built a doorway over their shoulders. Let's hope we don't. Sadly, the government has done nothing to make sure that the matter is well-finished, and unfortunately nothing has been done to make it possible for us to be on it. All she's put forth in this matter is traditional slang and stereotype, and it has in no way made it possible for us to feel the nails, to be convinced of how it really is done, and to be able to stand here with the government and say: Yes, we believe we have been calm for each court and are fully protected from all Icelandic interests. How tragic, then, that we have not been able to use this opportunity to maintain our position here in the summer, and the responsibility for these efforts and generous agreements with the foreign demands must be fully and fully in the hands of the government now established, the Government of Sigmunds of the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunnug!
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u7	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech. I informed him that the Economic and Business Committee made a decision today to discuss Invenge's comments on the evaluations of the non-violence group and request that they come to the committee and explain to the Committee how Invenge finds these results. The Ministry continues to be obtained, and the conference bank according to incidents, to answer or to explain. Since I'm here, I'd have left to ask you a direct question. A senator: Does he not agree that the objective of these measures, i.e. this stability proposal, is it to prevent any instability in this area, and keep the standard of living from losing, to make sure that this level of payment becomes permanent? I don't know why. A senator has studied a magazine from Iceland's Secret Bank since October 27th, covering more than four stage photos covering in the year 2022 and, more likely, a wide variety of possible scenarios. First of all, the impact of increased emissions of capital, thirdly the impact of 5% change in cost-separation rates, and fourth, show the impact of change in foreign growth. In the introduction of the Federal Bank, there are a wide range of adverse films, yet it concludes that in any of these forms there will be an unacceptable standard of living here or the driving off, the threat of payment, or the financial stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u8	Iresave...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u9	Has a what? The senator examined these details?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u10	A respectable president. Yes, I've studied these files, and I am quite aware that the Sustainer supports and suggests giving the leavings. This does not change our obligation to roll with each stone. I share that opinion. The senator's goal in the stability industry was everything. Stability goals are correct. I agree with what. That's what a senator does. But I remind myself of what Invenge does so well in its coverage today that the government falsely stresses the alleged income as the conditions for perpetuity, with all the implementation of this case, with all the advertising around the press conferences, where there are constantly being taken up by some figures from here and from where there is nothing to do with real stability, in order to try to get into over 800 billion to try to say that you will get some number that is comparable to the tax. It's harmful. It undermines stability, but it provides a fine example of the charlatanism that has marked the development of this case on the part of the government and is a major concern. I'm glad to hear it. A senator should have a reputation in order to cover the matter with a committee meeting. But I think it is a surrogacy that the government has not said that this case would wait, that the government has not taken the initiative to provide a meeting of all suspicions in the case, but that the government should be the chairman of the Economic and Business Committee who intends to call a meeting in the Economic and Business Committee tomorrow where the representatives of Inveffence will arrive and be able to discuss this case after the completion of the bill here for discussion, so that everyone will come to the end of the crisis. [[The president calls.]] No one will be able to handle the matter before it is resolved. It's a terrible way of working, but it's still bad. A senator surmises that he alone is out of the game in terms of the government's practices in this case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u11	A respectable president. Hv. A senator reports a tragic procedure. I have to say, I can accept that position. A senator said that it might have been better that in currency laws, the members of the council were assured that any larger decision on the terms of the release from the currency capital would have been made, but it is not. I don't believe anything but that. A senator concluded that the sentence of this law originally meant that instead of being given the leave to the council for approval, it is only asked to be presented to the secretary of finance and then presented to the Economic and Business Committee, and it was. The code of law was completely followed. The late bank has always had the authority to give an exception to its currency in this way as long as it seems to meet the stability goals. What added was the stable tax that put a timeline in the sand, so it was clear to everyone that they had to complete their affairs before the end of the year. Here, we are simply ensuring the amount of permanence that has been made here voluntarily. I'm asking why. A senator: Is he willing to agree with me in that the government is permitted to go so far as to confiscate the owners, legalize their demands and possessions, in order to go beyond securing financial stability here, go beyond making sure that the standard of living will remain as good as it has been so far? Should we start looking for someone by going further? In fact, it is what a respectable member of Invenence seems to suggest that we do, not only add our credit, but also all their property in Iceland, even though it does not rob them of financial stability or balance, and it does not win the standards of living here that they are allowed to take with them. [[The president calls.]] With what right, then, can we accept them?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u12	A respectable president. To answer this fine question, why? paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson, I ask him to have a word with his fellows. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason and the highest. Prime Minister Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who repeatedly pressured me to speak to the interests of demanders when I pointed to the simple fact that, like everyone holding property in Iceland, they have legal rights. It's good to go. This is Frosti, Sigurjónsson, who stands out in the forward category when it comes to a more objective discussion on the subject and to his praise. But it would be fine if he discussed this with these associates, all of whom have maintained it to me and to the nation that the Constitution of the rights of property does not apply to foreign demands. I agree with him that, of course, they enjoy rights there, like everyone else who owns property here. I don't read Invenge's comments in such a way that it says that they should be confiscated. They simply assess the danger in a way that is different from that of the late bank, and it is what is important to be examined. Therefore, the weakness of the situation and its management are huge. It is not acceptable in a democratic state where there is not just one sea of truth, called Sullabanki, but a lot of experts, full of university institutions, full of research institutions, that they perform a case secretly and then show themselves random and drive at such a speed that experts do not have the opportunity to investigate it. It hasn't been nice when it's been done in Iceland before, and it's totally unnecessary on the part of the government and the government part to repeat or reinvigorate them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u13	Madam President. The reason for what I can only call my frustration to this whole system of legalization is simply because in us, there were two laws and bill adopted. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónánsson was reviewing the legal arrangements in one of the previous cases that were designed to achieve a contract that evaluated the Federal Committee if they met the objectives of the law and finance minister, confirmed that they had agreed with the Economic and Business Committee. It's a letter of the law. The reason this was adopted in our spring was that we showed our government a measure of confidence, trust based on the conviction that the government would use its domain, e.g. in the Work Programme on Emissions, to consult on what would be done, and it doesn't have to be written in law. It was part of the spring spirit of our discussion, and part of the success of these cases through our council was that we believed that there was a measure of trust and that people would be called upon to consult when they saw the end of the matter. It wasn't done. I must say that it is understandable that we, who view ourselves as a public representative, would be chosen to support the European Commission and observe what is happening there, are not content with the way things have been done. At least I'm not criticizing what. A financial and business committee that has tried to review these issues as far as the highest possible way, but its authority is no more than to take over a presentation on the case. Here it was, in the first issue of which. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson that representatives of the Invenge party would be called to the Committee tomorrow, along with representatives of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the Federal Bank, in fact, at the request of my office and other members of the council. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, because we think it's important that we maintain the role of the council. Hv. A senator, chairman of the Committee, responded favorably. It would be wish that such requests would be generally better handled at the World Council and the scene of the European Commission. As I did over the last night, at least I have been very disappointed in having never experienced any agreement on the part of the government and then watching some of them. Councilmen calling out in the yesterday's debate and trying to excuse this lack of conversation with a pimp, Madam President. I think it's a big disappointment, and I think the council is down on this case, because it's a huge deal of interest. Hv. Many of the members of the Parliament are now entering a proper introduction to what is behind these harsh agreements, which, in fact, have been approved by the secretary of finance. Here was a reference to Invenence. What beats you, too, is the presentation of the case, as I mentioned very briefly earlier today, the presentation of the case for the Economic and Business Committee but also for the public in the form of a press conference, which all are based on the premise that certain figures presented in spring have been introduced. In addition, a second presentation of numbers is used to show that the figures from spring to spring represent their own. Yet the highest. The Senate secretary of finance that the numbers are not everything but the whole matter of solving the problem. All right. If it's about breaking the problem, and we can agree on it, why does the presentation all rest with the big numbers? This also provokes my frustration and disappoints me that I am going to be involved in this hide-and-go, instead of trying to have a normal conversation, we can make an independent assessment of the matter, be informed, and have good conviction about what is happening. It was an opportunity to do so. It's completely wasted. The remainder of the procedure, which has been observed in the economic and business committees, is a suspicion of the process, a lack of trust. We'll discuss the Invenge group's comments tomorrow hopefully or in the next few days on a case that really has become a thing. But this is not to say that the last word has been said about it, because it really is important. As I studied in my speech yesterday, which I would have liked to print out for this fine opportunity, but now difficult sections here at the council, there are some things that need to be considered. It seems to note how the time line has really been changed from spring to spring, there is no plan for delinquency in the public; there is not exactly how the pension funds will be able to meet their investment needs compared to the amount of money they have, how exactly to remove them from the oceans. Yes, it has been observed orally that people are optimistic about the ability to walk quickly but naturally raises questions when we read comments such as those we now have from Invenge. The most natural questions arise when we try to examine the numbers and behind the actual presentation are at the top of 815 billion of 856 billion, and it was all picked up, e.g. The debt of banks to the state that has suddenly become part of stability, loan extensions, and so on. This is why the disappointments I have to express on this matter. I'm afraid that the trust that I feel has been read here will have an impact in the future. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónánsson said earlier that the council was better informed. Yeah, I agree. It would have worked out better. It would have been better if we had been given the time we had needed to discuss these matters and had not really seen being trusted to find out, to observe the matter, as would have been necessary to maintain any agreement. Of the changes that exist, it may be said that the matter is about to be completed. There was a dramatic change between the 1st and the 2nd. and it will take some changes again now. More of it. The Economic and Business Committee does its best to process the financial information that comes to us presenting the changes as tips of phone calls and e-mails to the demands. Here, the World Council is under much time pressure to make changes in the stability of the proposals as indicated by the requirements. Although I do not doubt that this is as well done on the part of the committee as possible, I feel that no one is more likely to work under this time pressure. Madam President. I have to say, in the end, that you had this weekend that the matter had to be over last week or everything would go away -- I'm afraid to say no profanity here in the light of yesterday, but then everything would go on the worst. Today it is Wednesday, and still nothing has gone wrong and no one has died or anything like it. I sometimes wondered if the time pressure we are put into is actually real. At least it's not a good feeling to work things this way, Madam President. I'm sorry to see how this case has been handled. But my position remains the same. I will not support the situation. I will sit by its payment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u14	President. I'm very sorry that the agreement on this matter is breaking up. That's because of the way the government groups have handled the case, mostly the government. But I would like to be made available to the members of Congress, in case they haven't read the review, because I feel very sad and sad that they should not be called before the committee. I think it's very strange. Invenge's comment is a matter of opinion that I would like to hear from the officials of this case and hope to get them here in reply. I'm going to read the information about Invenge as she puts it, with the permission of a president. November 4, 2015 Indefence's review of food in an unsatisfactory pair of broilers. On Wednesday, October 28, 2015, the government presented the latest step in a budget release programme. This is the basis for the assessment of Iceland's National Bank on the exception of urban population and the analysis of its economic impacts. The Invenge group has concluded that the proposed strict agreements to the final pair, on the basis of this request, leave a large unsolved problem. This problem is based on the release of tens of thousands of dollars in foreign currency. As a result, the public, business, and pension funds in Iceland are left with a high economic risk and need to rely on the optimistic economic climate of Iceland's Downstate Bank. If she doesn't stand up, the standard of living in Iceland will be impaired and continued capitalist for many years. It is unacceptable to have planned actions that will ensure the interests of demandsants, but it is an economic risk for homes and businesses in Iceland. I'd like to draw attention to this, Mr. President, that although I've wanted to ensure that the members of the greater part were aware of what the Invenge says and that they will not have the opportunity to study until tomorrow after this has been approved, there is no member of Congress here. But I will continue, with the permission of a president: ▪ U.S. government production on the scope of stability development and continued problems. According to the government's presentation, the stability criteria provide 856 billion dollars to cope with the fragmented property of up to 815 billion dollars. to threaten economic stability in Iceland. Sadly, this is a very misleading presentation. The government falsely stresses the expected income as a stable condition that will bring about the state of the land. The real problem, however, turns to how much money comes out of the country and to the damage caused by the efflux. The moral stability of the demands depends on the government alone of 360 billion, i.e. Most of the domestic property of broilers. This is the correct amount of 815 billion dollars. to evaluate the extent of the remainder of the problem. It turns out that stability conditions will release the demands from the Icelandic economy at 455 billion dollars. Counting interest as predicted by the Federal Bank, this amount goes to over 500 billion dollars. The division of this amount is shown in the accompanying picture. The above can be said of the provision of the domestic property of broilers and the foreign property of the nation's population (at least 500 billion bucks.), then, they receive 1,150 billion of the foreign property of the broilers by means of a gift from the oceans. The prerequisite provision will have a negative impact on the long - term payment of the nation. In particular, two factors are striking at the payment of the Modern Federal Bank and are used as a basis for the evaluation of the bank's capitals'terms. First, in spite of very optimistic predictions of the continuing hold of the products and services trade, which is considerably above the historical average, the majority of them are going to pay interest on the national debt. One hundred and twenty-one billion dollars remain. in 2016 ◯2019, the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania will be held as However, according to its analysis, this amount cannot be used to eliminate the public, business and pension fund, where this amount of money is needed to cover debt. Therefore, based on the analysis of the Bank on the impact of the environ ment, there is very limited opportunity to eliminate problems other than demands. There is a desperate diagnosis of how the stable tax could be compared, especially in terms of the development of payments and space, to eliminate public, business, and pension fund in Iceland. The other factor that is striking at the identification of the Federal Bank is his economic forecast, which is based on the most optimistic basis. In this regard, the International Cash Fund (AGS) has identified in its analysis of 26 June 2015 and the Invenge agrees with that criticism. The late bank claims that it itself bases its evaluation on economic growth, which is the highest among developed countries, to be found in the United States. However, it establishes only the basis for economic growth for 2015-2017. No data are available on grounds following this period. It would be unwise to expect economic growth in Iceland to continue to be greater than in other Western countries in the long run. Lately, economic forecasts of developed countries have been revised accordingly. In the accompanying picture, there are economic predictions compared to the optimistic criteria set out by the Federal Bank of forward thought. This report can be accessed from my Facebook page later today if people want to see these tablets. All the senators have received the mail that came from Invenence with this notice today, but I do not realize if all the members of the Continent have read this review. I reiterate that this review is the kind of thing that calls for persistent questions that I would have considered normal to have been arranged for by the Economic and Business Committee before the situation is completely settled, which is to be done here in a few minutes. But, with the permission of a president, the reading goes on: ▪ In view of the economic setbacks of the past decade, it would have been more responsible to use moderate grounds to evaluate the suggestion of the broilers. It is not preconceivable to give an exception to the demands when the risk of the events is left in the public. If Iceland's Merit Bank doesn't follow up, the budget will not go on and then, of course, the account will fall in the public. If that happens, the parties who carried out and agreed to the review of the eliminated sources are responsible. The risk is also that there will be left behind a considerable debt, resulting in a substantial reimbursement of the risk. In the report, the Navy seems to sum up the terms of a clean foreign position (NIIP) and the pure debt of the nation's population (net eternal debt) and speaks of both equally. As the AGS warns in its report on March 13, 2015, the risks of the high national debt level are high. Although it is improved by the debt of stability of the proposals about 5% of VLP, clean debt still poses high national risk. It should also be noted that, in contrast to the Federal Bank, the AGS Development Protocol will take into account the financial benefits of this situation. The basic obligation of the government is to protect national interests. According to a government presentation since June, there was to be a process of academic delinquency that would provide a basis for the interests of households and businesses, so it is the condition of the procedure that real - estate systems do not take out any further adjustments than when it is now being made. It also showed that after a seven - year capital head, public, business, and pension funds are needed to make foreign investments. However, a report by the World Bank of 28 October 2015 does not reveal that there can be a wide range of room for seas to take place in the coming years. It is hard to see that general interests are put first. On the contrary, there is a significant risk that the physical economy will take out further adjustments. Governments have not yet explained the measures taken to protect households and businesses from further adaptations, when the demands of broken farms and creditors have been allowed out by 500 billion dollars. In currency. It'll be even. showing these enormous sums of money is not necessary to eliminate domestic problems. It would be unacceptable to have demanding owners and creditors out with large sums if the public, business, and pension funds in Iceland are left in ports for many years. Sincerely. On behalf of the Invenence, Agnar Helgason, Davíð the Blöndal, Torfi the son of Ólafsson, and Sveinn Valfells. I'd like to ask, and that is perhaps the most persistent question in my opinion, Mr President: Is it 100% guaranteed by these stability measures in the decommission of currency stealing that the public, business and pension funds in Iceland do not remain in the seas for many years? That's all, President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u15	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the speech. It was pretty good to get this overview from the Invenence review that we senators who are interested in the case have studied with us. Hv. A senator asks at the end if it's true. I think the review we're reading today clearly stated and pretty good, but these are exactly the questions we were asking yesterday. I would have wanted to be able to support this case. I would have wanted it to be so done that we could do this together, but it's impossible to do it because I'm responsible for something I don't have enough information about. We don't have a plan to take it off. We can't see how that can happen. Yesterday, the leading of the case said that what had to happen was to be equal when the oceans were lifted and that she believed it would be at the beginning of the next year. The late bank manager has also been very happy when he speaks of execution soon next year. I hope they're right. But I'd like to ask why. A senator: Is it her sense that this hope and their faith are justified?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u16	President. I appreciate the question. I have been one of those who want to support good subjects no matter where they come from. It was so that I was very positive about the two options set up, and I felt that a good concordance was at the start, but then I've let down my leg. I don't feel comfortable finding answers to the questions you ask, and I think this reversal is so strange. It would be good to hear from the council members who spoke very strongly about our having major operations with bats in order to cope with the vultures. In some way, things have changed, and it would be good to know why. I haven't had enough explanation, and I don't feel that way. I am a very optimistic person by nature. It is easy to become infected with the optimism that has been observed among the bank managers and managers of the highest court. Government. At least I have fins. I would have liked to have learned from the suspicions that were due, among other things, to the first Icesave deal, to have been learned from it and to ensure that we were informed and that when data and questions were asked they would be answered clearly. I have not seen the clear answer to those questions that I suggested when we received a recent presentation on the government package.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u17	V.E.G. President. It's a feeling that seems to be amongst us, at least In the United States, the W.C. and the Pirates, our trust has been compromised. In spring, there was a rich agreement to settle matters quickly and well, under the pretext that we will join us in this expedition and find the best results for the nation's interests. But then they left, the highest. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The secretary of finance laughing in the bank, as we can say, and they must have thought we had some pretty poor trust in them in this way. Then we, who have a great sense of responsibility and feel that it is important to consider the interests of the people of the land, are put in the difficult position of having to take a stand on this matter and unable to support it. But it is also difficult to stop. It bothers me that I believe this case is a favour to me that the path that has not been properly informed and needs to be read and studyed to understand what is really going on and that we have not been given any independent analysis. Counts 'em out. The senator did not say that with the later vote, the council is actually losing the case and that tomorrow's meeting with Invenge can be the highest. We are laughed at by the minister of finance and the prime minister that we are and that we are the day after the law was agreed to discuss the facts that they will affect. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u18	President. What I find quite remarkable about this whole case is that I remember that during the last term when we were in this Iilesave-bix and I worked very closely along with my present segment, forward and independent group, with Inveffence there was a lot of confidence in the current administrations of Invenge's opinion of Icesave. Today, there is so little respect for the warnings and concerns of the experts within the group that it is decided not to call the committee until after the case has been approved at the General Assembly. I think it's really special, I have to say right now. So it must be that those who are in charge of the Economic and Business Committee do not find much of this information from Invenge to come. I'm sorry. In fact, I would like to inform the members of the Parliament, although we are getting way too late, as far as the United States and the United States, that one of the best talks on this opinion was given yesterday. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar. It made it very clear why we in the smaller parts, or many in the smaller parts, not all of us, are concerned. The opinions presented there have not been answered. For example, I feel worried that the banks are being thrown into our arms without our knowing their real value, but it is clear that no one in the world is interested in buying this bank. And then we're supposed to sit with them and the same people, and we're going to have to do it again with our own personalized banks. [[The president calls.]] That's a worry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u19	Madam President. It may not be popular for a man to give a long talk that night until about 3 a.m. But there is good reason. First of all, it is never good for humans to go to buttocks on a technical, legal, and tax - complex issue in these last meters, as has been happening in these last days. Substantial modification proposals and additional modification proposals at 2nd. who were being supplied today were not sufficient and had to bring the matter into a committee and make further changes. In general, I'd like to say that I'm no more calmer than I was yesterday or yesterday, and including not after we received this day the comments of the Invenge group that have wrestled with things that are respectable, trying to look into the payment profile on their terms. Now I'm not going to take any responsibility or describe myself to agree with all their findings, I have no basis for that, but machines for many highly educated men, both physiographers, economists and engineers, and what they are now, and a considerable group of people have worked in this analysis. I think there's good reason to look at it like any other evidence. Besides, I'm not as calm as I am after the fashion of the Federal Bank today. What does it tell us, except that the cow bank still values it as building a lack of balance in the economy, that its overheating is at risk? An analysis agent goes on to react in this way to some of the people who recall the old times when the Council was all alone in trying to keep back the pressure and equilibrium in the economy, while the government retraced in the other direction. And that's exactly right, unfortunately, it's like it's chilling to experience this again because what the government's doing or has been doing? Lower taxes, drop taxes, and reduce tolls, promote private consumption, contribute to expansion instead of working with the Secret Bank. This is important to us when we are identifying the prospects here for the next loss, including in the context of the removal of currency stores. It was a pleasure. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónnsson, head of the Economic and Business Development Party and president of the Economic and Business Committee made a clear decision in the contrary to the fact that humans would have to be careful about the Constitution and the Constitution of the country, and there would be a limit to what humans could do and what they could not do about it. You're absolutely right. How valuable it was to have that statement made by the chairman of the advance party! And what Frosti Sigurjónsson has to do is hold a course for the highest level. Prime Minister, before you go. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, for what? paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason, trying to convince them that this is how it is, for what have some progressive men in the past allowed themselves to accuse us of the rest of us who have thought we were walking on this very basis? Making a decision between old and new banks, taking into account the fact that in the case of new banks, the Icelandic government or its legal agencies has not now or ever been in a position to push down the Constitutions and legal rights of property. That accusation has actually been brought about. It is called that when a bank was made up, it was given or handed out on the grounds that property was not legally designed by individuals, lawyers, or demands of the swelling farms. It is very important that we do so in this discussion. On the other hand, the government has very rich sources of taxation, but taxes also have to meet certain requirements. You can't do anything you want. Taxation needs to be general. They must not look at certain individuals who are just plucked out of a flock. They must be common in the sense that those in the same position with such high income, as much wealth or as as much tax paid, of course, can be set aside for each tax duty. They must not be backward, and they must serve legitimate, materialistic purposes for the sake of the Kingdom and the interests of the public. Well, ladies and gentlemen have said it's a judicial action to meet these taxes, and the government has been a very rich source of taxation. For example, during the last term, the wealth tax was tested in an effort by some to get involved in the formation of property wrongs, but it had a favorable hold on to judgment for legitimate and rich purposes for the sake of public interest, a general practice was that all who had as much pure possessions came to the same taxation, etc. This is good to consider, too, when we discuss these two ways, taxation and stability production. Then there is another justification, another reality that must not be forgotten in these discussions, that is the economic reality in Iceland. In effect, the rationalization and cause and the cause of Iceland's reasons in these activities are based primarily on economic realities, the reality that right here in the economy and now closed behind the collapse of currency, too much foreign property is in order for the national currency to take everything at once and go into full swing. That's why they have currency. This problem became clear immediately upon the collapse of the problem, and since then the picture has become clearer as the blackness of the swellingers gradually became a picture of what their property was, what domestic and foreign properties were, and what was the percentage of national and foreign demands. When this image began to become clear in 2011, a careful assessment of the level of payment would finally be made, the effect on the national currency status of the settlements. That problem is already gone, and it is combined with many factors if we examine it for national preparation as a whole. It's not just the swelling farms of the banks, and it's not just decrepits or scrawls. There are also the payments made by other people of foreign loans, that is also our own need for investments in foreign lands, especially the pension fund, and all our needs for both the export gate and the import gate that needs to be considered in these areas. Thus, the economic reality is that we do not produce enough currency, and not nearly enough currency to solve all these crowns and demands for some short time, unless we had a gang that would be completely unacceptable to ourselves and would destroy it all. In itself, it would be slow within a short period of time if we were ready to be eliminated from all control, then these crowns would be reduced to small amounts when changed to euros, dollars, and pounds. But this would mean terrible things to us, for which, of course, there is no justification. On this basis, we can say: It is not economically practical and will not be completely solved. The benefits are mainly two: having a currency head, locking these assets behind a currency head for life, which is a natural terrible advantage, or having to be taken seriously by humans when they go out. It is a economic reality that is easy to present. Why can we do this now, e.g. with a stable tax on the property of the living before they are allowed to go? Yes, because we have the right to resolve this problem. Of course, as a sovereign state, we can do so. We don't want it like this for years. That is the thought behind the stable tax and his main justification. We want to get rid of this, get ready to clean them out of the economy. To get a chance, these crowns have to be spent and if there are no better roads, we'll do it with taxes, and then we'll say goodbye. Of course, there is also the thought that if the demands and demands of you face this reality, they will simply suggest that they give up enough of their property to make it difficult for you to fix them up and clear them out of the economy in other ways, that is also an option. The substance, then, is that there is a good work to be done there. It's fine if you plan to meet with the Secret Bank and Invenge after the Council closes this issue, that's the same with the discussion afterwards that the government is doing a great deal of this loss. I'm not going to belittle it. It is fine that the Council tries to be as well informed as possible, but there will probably be little change. All of us are in a position to appreciate this matter. We have both inadequate time and insufficient information to do so. So what's said here on the part of me, at least there's a warning that you haven't been able to get involved in all this peacefully, have all the data and everything on the tables. It's just, unfortunately, not like that. The government is, in my opinion, totally failing on the test of laying down and laying up information and data and time to look into the matter so that it can be said as if to say about the prime and the Senate that the General Assembly has carried out its research duties in the process and members of Congress. Our problem is this, but the greatest is, of course, the forward party's problem. The media is in grave trouble in this case, and because I am now in many ways concerned about the forwarding party despite everything, anyone who believes it, for historical reasons perhaps in some way, I have only pondered this grueling crisis of the forward party. What is the problem of the Agency today and of this situation? It means that the heroes themselves, no less or less, the hot-dog heroes who accused everyone of being soft and slaved with demanding and lascivious, good if not treason, no, the sead bat heroes, all of a sudden, they're all full of paper-slash boys and girls because there's no spikes on the club, it's plastic. The demands are now being avoided, doing all they need to help them leave the country in terms of what may be too generous on the basis of the national and our own abilities, and they are to go first, to get first in their lives. Then, unfortunately, it is no longer the complete solution in a single package of parapolitic solidarity during the last term to work on. Then, under the end of her career, it was clear that one way in Iceland out of this was a whole pack of action and that the presidents of all political parties wrote a talk about it. That committee was active, and she repeatedly spoke up. For example, it was based on the motion of a parapolitical committee that allowed them to extend their authority to promote a currency head and allow them to be foreordained. This was based on a proposal from the transverse committee. Of course, more people had thought of it in many parts of town, but the committee suggested this in one of their business assignments and letters to the government at that time. It's gone away now, not only are there agreements, but things have actually taken a completely different course than they thought they've been drawing up deep into the last term and up to this point. This is now the time line, not one complete pack of actions, but a section divided and the chapter series has been confused. Instead of an auction on the Offhands before the swellings would be removed and their possessions would be paid off, or they would pass through forced contracts, they will soon be offered some time in the months, and then some time later there may be a plan on how the oceans will be lighted or taken down to other citizens, the public, professional life, pensions, investors, etc. I'm sorry, Madam President, but many developments in the past few weeks and months have not been a pleasant subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u20	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a very informative speech. I have a few questions that I would like to ask at the moment. A senator. I think we share the same concern that at this point we cannot know whether the stability donations agreed on and considered sufficient, but the bank believes that they solve the national problems, both the payment problem and the loyalty of financial stability, and even the various scenarios that might arise and be less reliable than what may be available today. I'd like to ask you what. A senator agrees with Invenge's statement that it is justified to demand more donations than is needed to secure the standard of living, financial stability, and payment in the imaginary forms. Of course, visualizations can always arise that would be less favorable or more practical, but that is the case. A senator's wish to take more at this point, in case there were any special traumas?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u21	Madam President. There is evidence that part of the Council Bank is based on the fact that part of the problem is launched into the future. First, keep that in mind. This may not necessarily be the default, and I am not necessarily convinced that the entire cost of possession will be solved. It's very difficult, and it needs someone with more time and more access to more information than I have to be sure of what is available in those areas because the stability process of building money really has just taken part of the problem into the future. To what extent it is directly a crown problem that goes there is controversial. Hv. A senator asks if you should take more. More than what? More than exactly all the farms we own? That could be a princely gesture. But it's even more complicated than that, because it also happens that if we are going to ensure an equality of all people, if we are to ensure that we can remove the seas so that everyone sits there at the same table, it can mean certain things that the demands even have to swallow simply because we have the right to do so. There is an economic basis for making a taxation or an outlay or therefore a stable proposal to say: these are the economic conditions in Iceland, and for this whole operation to be possible and on an equal basis it needs to be this way. So the crowns may not be the only thing that should be considered. I know why. A senator may not deliberately try to set me up, but he may be dangerous to enter in trying to answer the question in a simple way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u22	A respectable president. All I can see is that in this report from the Secret Bank, which is probably made by the most skilled experts in the Secret Bank, and from the best information available on the scale of the problem that should lie pretty well ahead of all the years we've been trying to evaluate it, it will show that by means of stability efforts, the problem has been solved, the problem has been solved. Maybe there's no more to ask for. They've been inside. The situation is also relatively good, even so good, that I think it is. A senator said that even those auctions were difficult to keep because they have disappeared so well that they could be more likely to be at risk of currency emissions than emissions. This is exactly what happened at a meeting and has been observed in meetings where the bank manager has expressed himself that he feels that there is even a greater risk of inflow than emissions, and that there will be a problem, a currency charge. Similarly, society's debt to foreign countries has not been as favorable for many decades. Hv. A senator spoke of various weapons that would have been in his power to finish the case and to get ready to do what had to be done. The barbed bats and shotguns and whatever, the natural stable tax was ever spoken of. A senator joined in approval here. Would he not agree with me that, without the status tax and its time limit, breaking governments wouldn't have had me say, would be a natural impulse to go into the matter on an equal basis?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u23	Madam President. I'm not the originator of the seamacing and the cannon metaphors. They came from the mouths of others before the last elections, I suppose. I don't necessarily approach the stability tax. If it is so that the stable tax is grossly recalculated to address the problem of living in this area, with its vast profits creating and assuming how that problem could become if these properties continued to grow within the economy, it remains as such. If so, we need not apologize to anyone or anyone. Then he's not a special sea anchor. He's just a tax founded on sound and legitimate grounds. Would the demands have been willing to face the fact that they would have to be worthy of their property if it hadn't been launched, so we'll use that picture again? Yes, that's what I think they would have been because they've known for a long time and they've calculated it for themselves, and they've done business on the basis that most of these crowns would be worthless. We can only see on the march and demand that people in general have failed to assume that the land of their possessions would become a lot of property. [[Up front.]] Since 2011 and actually since 2009, the Icelandic government, first in cooperation with the International Cash Fund, has proclaimed that these assets would not get out of the economy. An auction, of course, was launched that was nothing more than the price of a penny of landowners in the economy, and an eviction tax was announced. It flew for that tax that could go to 353/40%, at least for a few years, so it's much less new than many people want to be. [[The president calls.]] In a speech yesterday, I said that I was in no position to question the fact that the financial stability proposals solved this part of the problem that was grossly laid down for the next seven years. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We need to look beyond the future, but much of the problem is being driven further into the future and tied to it only seven years of age.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u24	Madam President. We continue to discuss this big case, but it's been a little slow and quiet at the General Assembly Hall, and it's my feeling that in general men want to cross their fingers and hope that things will all go well, that men shot out of the gun in the right direction of the case, but I still don't have the conviction that they do. I made up my mind today, I will not be able to support the laws involved in changing the law in order to achieve the stability established by governments. When these two routes were set up by the government and two bills passed through the council, you ask: " Was there no meaning in the idea that it might fall so that a stable tax would be imposed? Was it some showy display on the part of the government to have such a relationship with the way people acted during the previous season by being disturbed by foreign demands, by taking them seriously, and by showing us Icelanders that we did not leave behind in our dealings with foreign demands? Was it that kind of a screen and a show for the public, for the voters of these classes, and never meaning to go to the taxation of these scraps? And when it came to saying that these two possibilities were there, they fell aboard immediately from the demands and were ready to lead from them what they trusted to make a great contribution to these materials. Of course, it raises the thoughts of living behind the scenes to negotiate with the demands to go this way and with the conditions under it. Their interests seem to have landed on top, totally. Of course, you can't accept that governments have made the interests of demands more important to the public in the country and that the interests of demand have been given the doubt that the way in which I believe that a public taxation could be supported and that there is nothing unusual about it. And even if courts take up these matters, it would never be less than what lies ahead in the stability of the situation here. V.E.G. In his speech this afternoon, the prime minister expressed himself and spoke of the firmness of the case when the two primes of these two routes were adopted in June of the summer. In fact, all responsibility was referred to the Secret Bank, and confidence that he would appreciate meeting the needed stability conditions, the contribution made to the Icelandic state, that it might be made, and then it would go to a financial minister who wrote up and attended the suggestions of the World Bank. But the other would be primarily perfunctory that this would lead to a presentation into the council through the Economic and Business Committee. Of course, it is very bad for members of the Parliament to experience themselves so that they have given up their obligation to have a responsibility and responsibility for what the United States does in such a huge national interest to the public for many years ahead of time. You feel, in part, as if we senators are now like bald-cut dogs and that we have somehow been taken into the sack with this whole thing. But while we are dealing with legal issues today that are involved in adjusting our laws to the stability, it is mandatory, I, our senators, and, of course, I speak primarily for myself, to appreciate how these things are facing at this moment, whether it is more beneficial for the Icelandic community to go the stability route or taxation. Based on the information available today, I would support the taxation of the worn-outs. For example, we've received some reviews from Invenge, which I think is very convincing to me that the CIA's presentation of the stability process was very misleading. Their reviews contain many very serious comments and sobering thoughts, which, of course, are very bad that the discussion is taken too late in reality to influence the rest of the case, the government has fired from this gun, and no one knows if there has been a blank shot or not. This will be evident in the experience. We senators have received warnings, and others in the form of a very detailed review from Invenge in these matters that many experts are signing. They have evaluated many matters involving national interests, such as Icesave at the time, and were very attentive to that group. No more is being done with this than for painting it happens to the Economic and Business Committee and the Federal Bank to look and cross, but then this huge decision has been made, no longer in the hands of our senators, but at the hands of the Federal Bank and the Board of the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance. I highly disapprove of the lack of consultation with the government's opposition, and that, of course, is a disgrace to the government. There was a board of committees on emissions, which in recent months have been totally inactive and ignored in all of these matters, and no information has been available on this major project for us senators until perhaps only at the end of the case. As a nation, we may be able to sit in the seas, and in the years to come, the demands of the demands will be 500 billion. There is no plan or budget on how the interests of the public are guaranteed, how the interests of a country are guaranteed, how the financial resources of the pension fund are committed and other investors in the country, no plans for how to get rid of currency capitals against the nation. While the demands have the capacity for learning and carrying out 500 billion, we remain unsure about how a situation can develop toward the members of the society that come to work here and live in the Icelandic economy and with Icelandic reality. I think it's very sobering and it's as if the media didn't trust in this discussion, had no window in what's going on, and all they trust is that the Navy must have the best perspective on these matters, and there's nothing to be criticized. The late bank was raising the steering growth today, and one of the reasons for its growth in steering growth was that economic uncertainty was inexplicable. I guess part of that uncertainty is just this big issue, how we get out of currency and how this operation works, whether it has the power to do it, and if it fails, it can, of course, exert a tremendous impact on economic developments in the country for the next decade and beyond. As we have discussed, we are turning a problem into the future, which we cannot see to the end how to solve. There's something that can't be written up when people roll the problem ahead. The problems of the pension fund in the country have been addressed to invest. It is not expected that they can invest abroad in these programmes except for 10 billion, but the need, of course, is far greater than that, very urgent, and based on plans for this so-called SALEK meeting, it means that there is a need to raise the expenditure into the fund, which, of course, adds even more to the problems of the funds, to increase money for the members who, of which, of course, are in great need. Finally, I would like to say that there are far more questions left than has been answered. It is simply not possible to rely on God and luck on such a big deal and to believe that it is only good for a contract to be made with the worn - out agreements. Rather, it must be considered criticism that has come from many sources and was well handled yesterday, as it were. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason and others. They must be listened to criticism, and they must look into it even more, and whether the tax is not a far more pure way to benefit us as a community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u25	Madam President. It is safe to say that this subject is causing many anxieties and reasons for continuing to discuss it because what has happened today has not strengthened a person in the faith that this is a difficult and enlightened way to go. This is what I say in view of the fact that as the last term, almost as soon as the oceans were on, they set out and began to consider how they could be released and then a group of consultations were set up for regular treatments and had something to say. It has, in effect, been the opposite in this terms, as we have attended and complained in the Senate hearing. It is quite clear that the confidence that would have had to be there so that we could work on this big and important issue together has not been enough, since it could have been achieved primarily by having everything on board, both data and conversation, and then I think that the conclusion would be different today, I would like to say. At least people would have come to the table more enlightened than they are today. There are many of us who believe that a decision based on what has been presented here is difficult to make. There must be more than just the few of us here who have expressed concern about how cheerful the demands have been with this conclusion. It sort of came out right away. Of course, it is not as if this has been attempted to rise by the executives who have spoken that the stability conditions have been as much discussed as the stable tax, it was not so when the government's presidents presented these matters. It also gave rise to a measure of concern when a plan for fixed contracts appeared on the Ministry's Web immediately after the presentation of the government director. It shows that work is being done elsewhere, but it is with those who are to make a decision here. The stable tax as presented was to give us a large amount of money, at least much larger than it has been placed on this table today and yesterday. Many have tried to analyze the figures in this case, and here is a significant witness in the analysis of Invenge. I'm not going to argue that what is presented there is infallible, no more than maybe at the Federal Bank, but I find it interesting that there is a strong argument that I feel is unwise not to discuss and study before a decision is made on this matter. I find it very irresponsible and special, so no more is it said to offer the council such a practice not to get a conversation with the members who have raised rich doubts until this is over. I don't really know how the representatives of the greater part are able to make that decision in the light of what they say, and I find that to be very irresponsible. It's under a lot of money, and I'm afraid during the last term, everything would have gone literally wrong if we had dreamed of putting it into practice and doing it this way. I strongly criticize the government, and I also criticize that the Ministers have not seen any reason to be in a council hall and to participate in discussions and questions about this matter and to answer the criticism that has occurred on the part of those who have doubts. That's what worries me too. This was one of the things that was promised in the campaign, that money was to be used in all kinds of promises, as we probably remember most of us, and I think that the money that was due to come out of this and come along has been used many times. The presentation presented a much larger figure than this. Therefore, it is interesting that the Ministers did not trust in being in a council hall, either yesterday or today, to answer questions asked by the members of the council. Indefence says that they do not consider it a prerequisite to give an exception to the demands when the risk of the tragedy is left in the public. I must say that it is clear what we are concerned about, both about the development of payment, because it seems, in fact, only to the year 2019, and the oceans that seem to be out of order only for the demands, not for the general public, company or pension fund, as previously traced. Then this process is linked, i.e. how to rid the public and the companies in Iceland, despite the fact that they were to appear a long time ago, the plan has not been submitted. In June, the government claimed that the process of delinquency should be based on, by the permission of presidents, the national and corporate interests. Many feel that this is not the case at this point, and we must wonder why it is not. Many questions were raised yesterday during the discussion, and ten joints have been asked. paritaprevir Björn Valur Gíslason on this subject. It will be interesting to see what the government will do, especially after this meeting that will be held tomorrow and, in view of the fact that this will be the case, but the answers have not been made in the case of those who have spoken, they have not yet been able to answer. Apparently, those taking the lead do not have the answers that are extremely important, i.e. what remains and why offers have been offered e.g. sales of stock money at the Iceland Bank holding partner instead of demanding stability of funds. This was not done with the Council of Copenhagen. In this regard it is worth discussing that with what is now on the table really comes in 8 billion in money. That's all. The rest are possessions, and their estimates changed in at least a relatively short time, such as. Iceland Bank of 150 billion to 185, and no one seems to be directly able to argue why the president of a broken government mentioned the first figure in the summer. Besides, we worry about who's going to buy this bank. There does not seem to be much demand abroad for them. Of course, in the light of history it is normal to be concerned about who will come to possess the banks. It would be unnatural if we didn't think back a few years when the banks were private and wondered about it. But most of all, there's too little money in debt and they all own it, it's really conditional, according to this bill, going to subsidies on debt. Of course, it creates space because of lower interest costs, but I think that the government president was using this money over and over again, as I say, the pledge of the candidates for 300 billion was that 80, which was so paid from the state's fund, should only be temporary because it would come in more and more quickly. It may be possible to make many practical uses, but it is worth reminding us that the infrastructure may be inexpensive. But there is more to consider about property and banks, including That there's a record of everything to the top. Although there are no visible buyers at the banks, they are being assessed at very high prices and much higher than in the countries around us, their high prices are based on Q-percent 0.9 and Deutsche Bank 0.5, which is expected here for Iceland Bank of 1 and there's also concern. In fact, it is suggested that all these figures are expected to go on and on, but we know that it is easy to do so. A ROV report at the end of October, where this matter is being discussed, includes the following: Quoted by Sveinn Valfells, which is a physicist and economist and is actually part of the Invenge group. He assumes that the demands of this new bank and that their investments will be otherwise on the land for a long time so that the old bank's ventures get a lot of tax money because they give the new banks a loan they can borrow elsewhere. He also believes that with this, much of the problem will remain, i.e. 20% of the domestic product, about a million per person in Iceland or 4 billion. K. or more per family. In other words, this will come out of the country and have a negative effect on the gangs of the Icelandic crown and increase in inflation within the country. He asserts that it is only a question of when this effect will arise, not whether. Under these circumstances, many have been trying to calculate from this misleading presentation of figures, such as these have been traced both yesterday and today, where all kinds of money is being placed into this figure, 815 billion, who would have been taken away from all the above. It wouldn't have changed anything about it. And it is unnatural that it is done only when the stability project is put forward, not the stable tax. You are sorely missing that you are not comparing these two ways, what this sentence would have meant for both of them, i.e. if the numbers and joints that are counted into the stability progress and had been inserted anyway, the tax stability pathway would also have been inserted. Of course, the stage should be set, showing both ways because both of them can be left at that time. Despite the fact that the stable tax was the top of the government class's presentations, this is the conclusion, but we are not allowed to see from them how the stable tax could look on the other route. Of course, this is unfortunate and even more pressured by doubts as to whether we are really getting the money we could get, whether those who caused it can say and are now leaving the country with a lot of money could pay more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u26	Madam President. I'd like to say that these laws taken up here in spring were based on a firm trust in the government, confidence that the government would agree with the government's opposition on how treaties would be resolved that way. It was little or nothing, and I would therefore like to use this opportunity to describe my frustration by the fact that the government was entrusted to us - I feel that the government did not support that trust. That's the main reason why I don't think it's enough here. It could have been if we'd had time to go over it, but that time hasn't given up, and that's the main reason I'm going to sit around and not support it. I still think there are a lot of questions left.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u27	A respectable president. The government has done its career in this matter, and the administrative part broke the solidarity that we worked to build up on this matter of national interest because we thought it was very important to show a team when it came to fighting for Icelandic interests. There's a lot of solubility in the process of this case, as shown by repeated modification proposals, and now, last running here tonight. It's sort of tops everything when it's decided to publish tomorrow, when all laws have been approved, to a meeting in the Economic and Business Committee where normal and inevitable comments have been made by Invenge after the legislation has been completed. There is nothing more apparent about the situation and the nation, and regardless of experts, there is no opportunity to address the matter in its time, to present comments, to make serious comments about this important matter of interest. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is therefore inevitable to sit by, and it is tragic that the government does not depend on the trust it was shown.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u28	President. I am deeply disappointed in the way this has been done. I believe that the government has had the opportunity to introduce it and thus treat us in our government's opposition that we could have stuck with them on the case because, of course, it is our will in this room that it will be successfully solved. I deeply express my frustration that this government did not manage to hold matters in such a way that we were content with what we have been told and what we have been introduced to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u29	Madam President. I'd like to thank the Committee for the treatment the case has received here and for the best coverage and cooperation with the Ministry. It was never in itself anticipated that this matter would appear to the General when we handed over the bill in summer on the stable tax and discussed the conditions that could become the basis for the breakup. Therefore, I feel sad that there is a disagreement about the release of this matter. In the summer, we arranged for no special contracts to be given to the council. This topic under discussion is a legal adjustment to pay for the terms of forced contracts. A person may disagree or agree with this, but now the discussion is about to end, and I want to make it clear at the end of the discussion that it is important that the matter has made quite a success at the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u30	Madam President. I believe it was a big mistake not to let the council come to this matter. In June this was made a mistake when it was suggested that it was only in the hands of the Federal Bank and the highest. Secretary of finance to determine the outcome of the case, whether it would be chosen to carry out a stable contribution or the tax. It's a mistake, and I heard it at the moment. The head of the Economic and Business Committee here in the hearing that it may have been a mistake not to go back before the council. I believe that this is a very serious decision that is being made without examining all the criticisms that have been presented. This has led to great criticism, and this is a big issue for the national community that a decision should not be made until it is checked to see if they are right. As it is now, the problem is to be shot to the future, and all people are going to do is trust in God and luck and cross fingers and hope for the best. [[The president calls.]] It's not acceptable for the public and business in the country. I will say no to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u31	President. I feel a little strange that it was not decided to call for today to hear more and answer for what has been presented in the Invenge review. I think it's necessary that those who are running the country's administration or taking the administrations put their full trust in the agents working within the Invenge, so it's odd that they don't want to meet them until after they've settled the case, I just have to say that. There's a lot of questions that I would have wanted to know, such as. Whether it's quite certain that the pension fund, the public and the country's businesses will not be locked up after this operation. I don't feel comfortable going through this complicated, uninformed thing. I would have wanted to be able to support the case. It has to be said at the moment. But I can't because the transparency and lack of response are so great.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u32	A respectable president. I feel the need to explain the future's position in this matter once more. We think that we are here merely tailoring a law that was approved for a unanimousity during the summer, and we are not surprised to find the need to do so. This is an enormous extract. The collapse of an entire financial system is under way, and here we are accepting legislation that will make the contracts more necessary. We support this and the proposed changes made today are provided with the same objective, to improve the provision of the labor agreement, to simplify and simplify, and to reduce the abuse of any possible legal offense. It's become a pretty complicated definition. [[The president calls.]] But then there is another story whether humans support the ideas and plots of forced agreements that have been submitted and confirmed by the Sentencing Bank, which may well make up for a better future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u33	A respectable president. I just wanted to reflect a few words. 12th p.m. Southwestern U.S.A., when she said that she wanted to support this matter. I'd like to be able to support this case, but based on the kind of work that's been tithing here a few times when it's impossible for me to do so, I'll sit by.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u34	Madam President. There's a lot to say about the trial here. And a lot of things to be said about it. Sadly, the government has removed all personal consultations on this matter, and there has been no opportunity to maintain a parapolitic stand on this matter. How much more, though, are the doubts that you have of being born here with enough material solution to the government of Sigmundur Davíð Gunuga's Gunnlaugsson! The question of the discount precept given to them is certainly the right thing to go first and only out of oceans. They are, unfortunately, without conviction that there is a good solution here. Is it, then, that the gang's spiked bats proved to be made of silky plastic?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u35	Madam President. Since we are here taking the discussion in a broad context of this matter, it is necessary to just step up and celebrate the dramatic milestones that will be at the end of this vote when we officially eliminate the last obstacles of wearing out and distributing property to demands without any effect on the Icelandic gangs. There has been much debate about the possibility of absolute uncertainty in this regard. For the Council, the 25 - page report by the National Bank provides a 25 - page report on the destruction of the subsidies, and the markets say the same thing. Iceland's credit rates are rising, Iceland stock markets take over, bank diagnostics are positive. Yes, there have certainly been some who have expressed doubts as to whether this is a perfect methodology, but there are few people. And even the strongest critics of today's situation usually end with the words: "Well, at least I'm not quite sure. Madam President. I'm sure. I'm sure we have a good hand. We are making a success of this difficult situation that we have faced since 2008.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u36	A respectable president. I want to be like the first speaker, the highest. Financial and economic ministers, are happy we're at this critical point. We're finishing this thing, we're finishing up with the dead banks, and we're going to do it by getting full balance and defending the public's standard of living. This is the final step in the restoration of the economic system after the 2008 financial collapse. I'd like to say three important steps were taken. It's the law of emergency that made it possible for us to take out Icelandic banking systems. This, in turn, is the last terms to fight a debt that would become nationalized, including. through the Icesave agreements and now the final settlement for the fallen banks. There we defend the public's standard of living in all these elements, defending that our private debts are nationalized. What a pleasure it is to be in this place today, and I'm saying like the highest! Economic and economic ministers said earlier: There is a wide framework for this in many parts of the community, and therefore it should be welcomed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u37	President. We're here to vote on this matter. V.E.G. Secretary of the budget is sure. If he's so sure, it would have made it easier for us to discuss the matter if we had received some kind of release plan, if we had gotten an analysis of the problem that the follow-up of the Off-counters will cause, if we had gotten a comparison of a tax route to a discount route, and if we had had any kind of assessment of the impact on the Icelandic pension system. Then we could all be sure, and we could stick to this. But the highest. A secretary of finance who is here with gorges and is so sure is not prepared to cooperate with the smaller section of the council and give proper information about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u38	A respectable president. To say you're so sure as the highest. The secretary of finance today must have made us wonder why he did not open up all the information on the matter and helped all in this room to become just as certain because there is great uncertainty in the air. I'm not as sure as I am. The secretary of finance that man has chosen to take the best route because what is called the final step in the restoration of the economy by the head of the House of Congress, first of all, the state is placed in its arms with the 2/3 banking system. Second, it also includes the unsolved delta, the snowpant is still here; this does not solve the problem. And third, we're going into an adventure tour with a potential sale of property and what comes out of it. [[The president calls.]] This is all certain, and this is the final step in the restoration of the Icelandic economy. Hear the endemity. I'm not as sure as I'll be sitting by.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u39	Madam President. Praise be to day in the evening. There's a lot left in this case. We hope, of course, that this will work out well, that there is little else that we can do. However, the remaining 300 billion snowbolts remain, and the other part of the problem is to launch into the future by extending into it. Finally, I hope to remind you of this, as followed by the second speech at the highest. Secretary of finance, the irreprehensible assurance of economic infallibility has failed to bring good results in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u40	Madam President. We were discussing the matter to vote for now. They called it at the highest. A financial and economic minister to participate in the discussion because members of the Parliament had a number of questions that needed to be answered, but he did not show up. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] But he's coming here... [[Up front.]] I've asked the President to get the highest. Financial and economic ministers, they specifically asked him to be in the room to answer questions and he refused to be seen. But he's standing here for a minute to tell us that we don't need to worry because he's absolutely certain.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u41	A respectable president. I welcome this vote and because this matter is finally at stake. It's strange to listen to the lies and conspiracies of a part of the government opposition, but I'm going to commend the senators'future for making the decision with us government classes to vote for this vote. It's strange to worry about present governmental opposition parties, i.e. Groups and left greens, should return to them on this day. These are the groups who planned to travel overnight with Icesave through the council, not once, not twice, but three times. Then it was not to worry about how the nation would feel. It has been shown that the people are on top of this, that stability is not threatened, and that it is odd to listen to members of Congress to cry out to a minister for discussion on matters at the council, and members of Congress are expected to solve.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u42	A respectable president. I come up to make a comment at the President's conference board and program because we're going to the 1st. ... and it's 5:15 on Wednesday night. We've been here to have a meeting at the council where almost nothing has been planned, some EEA people have been marching through in 20 minutes. This government does not present a matter, and finally, when some matter arises, we delegates are invited to discuss it from 15 minutes past nine to twelve this evening or into the night. This is not acceptable, and I pray that there will be a review of how this council is conducted. Me and the senators have the right to speak of the same great things in everyday life with the people who have chosen us here, especially in view of the fact that there are no other urgent issues. We must ask for a review of how the program is organized and that members of the council are not offered this, and much less the advisers, with such a big deal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u43	President. I'd like to request that this meeting be terminated and funds be discussed after the weekend. Here we are talking about a new income and a new expenditure of about 10 billion. that pertain to the topic realms that we members of the Parliament truly believe and would like to share with us. It is truly disturbing that there is a budget talk on Wednesday night before the council is out of control and out of control. We saw that this was possible through committees in half an hour of massive technical changes to the largest economic level of the season at least, so I think it's the highest. The president should just relax and break up, and then we'll talk about these things in daylight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u44	Madam President. It has been this way during our last session that we have had to spend every day of our lives throughout the winter in order to maintain the Council's work program. We've had to spend the entire month of June usually over the past few years, so I don't think we'll be able to use all the time to finish big things, including tonight. It's only due to be 9 a.m. and today it's a warrant... [[Up front.]] No, I was going to say more than 9 and there's nothing. We've become slaves because we stay here till night. I remember that in the time of the last government it was always called a failure when we basers made such a comment in the middle of the night. I recall the talk by Blöndalur Belandal from a symposium that reminded me of the family life course of a former president, who was basically choked by laughter in the middle of his talk, for it was about 3 a.m. But now it's only 20 minutes past 9 and I can't believe that there's some kind of talk going on. [[The president calls.]] Let's just start a conversation about the last budget, and let's do it tonight, and that's why, if you're in a mood. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u45	Please be quiet.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u46	A respectable president. It was adopted at a conference on Monday to use an evening meeting on Tuesday and opened an evening meeting on Wednesday with a view to being able to complete the case that had been completed earlier and to start a discussion on the budget, preferably to complete it in order to bring it up to the committee. But there was no promise that the sum of money would be complete. This was adopted at a council class meeting, so to speak, and it was the members of the council of all classes, and if they did not report it to their council then I think it's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u47	A respectable president. I think we agree that we can plan things better at times. The General Assembly, but it takes more than just the executives to get to that table. Now, we have an agreement to make on this matter. In here, we all know that it is important to have the matter settled. The legal committee will allow us to review these matters well. I'm not going to go back, except maybe a little bit about what it was like during the last term. [[Take it up: Do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do it, do ……]] Okay, because of the number of bars from the oar. A government stand can be considered that the watchwork approved in 1921 guaranteed six hours of seamen's rest were repeatedly broken under the edge of the water. ...and so I trust we won't do it right now, but I think we should start with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u48	President. We, in our memory, do not hold back from working at night, but we feel that it is too late in the evening to raise a budget talk, that there is no stopping us from doing so. I'd like to inform you that the chairman of the United States has informed us of this agreement, but there have been some changes since then, so much has been lost in the program. Then it may be vivid when we stand here right now at the highest. Secretary of finance called the welfare laws their own details. When I'm at the highest. The minister of finance has no more respect for financial talk than he calls it details, so maybe the rest of him would not be expected to have much respect for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u49	Madam President. This is an agreement made on Monday, and it was certainly done in good faith. On Monday, however, we did not know that there would be a special additional adjustment proposal in a committee party at the bill we were discussing today. We didn't know that this was going to delay us until the evening, and we didn't know that we had to start talking about any extra cash at the time. 9:30 at night. It may be at the top. The Secretary of Economics and Economics calls it a loser, but I was... [[I didn't say that.]] You may be going to do that when I'm finished. We were here for the talk until midnight, were here at a meeting. 9 This morning, and we've been dealing with difficult situations, and there's nothing that calls for money to be discussed right now. A financial committee has a lot to do. We have a large and large bill that needs to be discussed well and long, which is the top financial bill I'm sure is in charge of. The minister wants the committee to complete as soon as possible, and we can use the committee days for it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u50	A respectable president. I didn't hear any better at what happened. paritaprevir Ragnheiður Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter, speaking of an agreement earlier, but that there would have been no agreement to complete the case, the funds tonight. She said it, so I don't understand what men are talking about here. It was said that someone talked about being a loser not doing night work. That may well be so. But the biggest pussy would likely be the one in the mind of those who spoke so that the Ministers should not file a case, and then finally, when it comes to bringing it forward to an evening meeting. It was shown in a summary in the press today that in the two months since the council, three ministers in this government have turned zero cases into the council, zero cases. I think maybe the government groups should just think about how they're going to run their lawsuit at the council during the winter instead of trying to drive some case, a detail called, through a conversation at night meeting, totally unnecessary. [[The president calls.]] We've had a 40-minute meeting, 20-minute meeting, why? It's just a stupid arrangement and a work ethic.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u51	A respectable president. The issue we handled earlier went through a somewhat judgmental process. It was worked very fast, people were very busy with it, so I think it's all right to consider taking it into consideration. To say that, I'm not going to complain that this is a late meeting on this subject. But I'd love to know how long it would take to have that meeting because it can really matter to us how much we use our time, especially when we are late in the evening as we were yesterday and again now, much in the same case, it helps a lot to know in advance how long we'll be here. I have to say, one of the worst things about this evening conference tradition is not knowing when we're done. If you can fix it, I think there'd be a lot of improvement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u52	A respectable president. This has been referred to as the agreement between the council groups from Monday onward, and it is true that we have assumed that this case was elected to be completed this week. We also assumed that the secretary of finance would recommend funding. It was all ahead of time. There were no promises that anything would be completed, just so it's perfectly clear. Population leaders do not view their freedom of speech as a matter of freedom from members of the council. The discussion takes time. On the other hand, I would like to offer the ultimate solution. The secretary of finance says we're going to give him money, we're going to give him a reply, and then we're going to end a meeting. There is no doubt that the funds of such an area will go into the night because they will not be finished tonight. The debate over this subject will not be finished tonight so that it will be best to get to the top. The secretary of finance got an advance, and we let the discussion work for us tonight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u53	A respectable president. I'm ready to accept this offer. Svavarsdóttir Svandís Svavardsdótir's case on the subject tomorrow, although a discussion about this is not completed at the council, due to tomorrow's budget hearings, visitors from the council are being asked to cover the bill for financial contributions. So it would be good if we could unite in this way at the council. If this is not going to happen, I'd like to ask the members of the budget who live in the country to restore their flight home because if it's not going to be this way, I'm going to be forced to meet with a budget committee on Friday and stake them all Friday to start working on the bill. This is the situation in the understanding of the agreement made with members of the council, this is how it was done. [[The president calls.]] Meetings and committee days were held, and this is simply the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u54	Madam President. I thought it was my fault. The chairman of the financier isn't extending any terms of reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u55	Yeah.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u56	In that act of reconciliation, only a whip tunnel would be hidden if it did not come to grips with her background in the case. There must be a way to negotiate in advance how long the discussion will take. Of course, it's a big, big deal, the budgets, and we're supposed to respect them that they're not being measured into the night. A discussion of this issue cannot be completed at this time. 12, that's what it says. So I support a suggestion. paritaprevir The Svavarsdóttir to the highest. A minister will be given an opportunity to make a comment and then wait for the discussion next week. [[The president calls.]] I think that's the only thing that makes sense in this case and the highest. I hope a minister agrees with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u57	A respectable president. Only as a result of this discussion, it is true that at a meeting of the Parliamentary formulations on Monday, it has been discussed on the two events that have been scheduled today, but there were no promises of outcome and everything dependent on progress and the evidence of their discussion during the week. Each representative can be seen to see that it is not a good idea to make such an extensive plagion as the budget bill is so late in the evening. Here's a good suggestion from what we've come up with. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir's zeal for the order of the secretary of finance for that matter will be answered, and then 1 will be avoided. suspended. The chairman of the budget board has stressed that there will still be opportunities for a discussion on the bill on a budget committee tomorrow. If so, they may be aware of further information about 1st. The matter later calls for the appointment of some of those guests to be called back for further discussion, so I think it's a good way to settle, to pay for the committee's work, and at the same time allow a minister of finance to measure the case tonight without having to turn the discussion into the night as early as the assembly is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u58	A respectable president. I think it is now being born with an excellent solution to the big problem that seems to weigh on many people in this hall tonight. I think it's a good solution if a person can agree that a secretary of finance will make a decision and be granted a counterargument and a financial committee will begin the case tomorrow, as planned, and the Ministry of finance and other persons will arrive and know it, and they will keep to the schedule that was expected to be planned tomorrow, of course, with the obligatory notice that they would be called back to the meeting if there are any new information in the discussion when it comes up after that committee date which is due tomorrow and on Monday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u59	Madam President. I recommend a bill to raise the budget for 2015. The bill submitted to the General Assembly reviewed the income plan and proposals for changing the budgets of the various budgets during 2015, according to the review of key terms for the budget and the progress of the budget. The proposals in the bill also note events based on new legislation, unscheduled expenses, and the government's decisions on expenses due to urgent projects that have been carried out in the year. The 2015 budget was the second consecutive year of the year in which the total balance of government funds would be set up to $3.3 billion. It is not easy to see that the contribution of the State Fund will be considerably better than that set aside in current financial laws. The bill thus assumes that total income will increase by 26.4 billion. from the budget and to the total budgets for spending up to 9.4 billion dollars. It is thus estimated that the total amount of waste will be 20.6 billion. in 2015, i.e. 17.1 billion a.m. It's better at the base of business than under the budget. The majority of the improved resources from funds are explained by about 15 billion dollars. more money from financial institutions than had been expected on the basis of budgets, especially from Iceland's Bank. With the exception of these interest payments, the overall increase in the current year is expected to be similar to the estimated budget. However, behind that schedule there are substantial changes of quality as well as inter-individual variations between different sizes, on both the income and charge sides. It is estimated that the original balance of the state's budget will be 79.9 billion. In 2015, according to this schedule, equivalent to 3.7% of GDP. This means that the initial balance of about 12 billion from current financial laws will be significantly better on the base this year than expected. According to the bill, the income of the state's budget is growing, as stated earlier, at a rate of 26.4 billion. From current sources, i.e. of 4% of the budget. Growth revenues are expected to drop by some 700 million dollars. so that atoms increase by more than 27 billion dollars. However, the rate of tax pay increases by 14.2 billion. Because of the better economic progress of the present year than predictions indicated under the terms of budget law. However, the development of major taxes during the first half of the year is fundamentally in accordance with the budget. In the latter part of the year, private consumption is expected to increase more rapidly as data in the dress code results in the increase in provisional households at the same time as the level of employment will remain high, including due to growth in tourism sectors. In that case, the state's budget is 15 billion dollars. More than the budget, as mentioned earlier, is a larger budget, especially from the Bank of Lands. Anticipating this, there are 3 billion less interest payments from Iceland's Central Bank and other sources. I note that now at the beginning of November, a reevaluation of revenues for the current year, including taking into account a revised national forecast and the collection as the year progresses. If similar trends occur, some changes in the strategy can be expected in suggestions presented before 2nd. The bill. Madam President. Total spending is expected to be 9.4 billion higher than expected in budgetary terms than primary spending would be up to 15 billion. The change in expenses is divided so that budget binding increases by 12.7 billion over what was expected in budgets. In contrast, the reduction in other budget bindings amounts to 1.1 billion. The fiscal tax as a government fund pays and expenses funded by markets and does not affect recovery by an increase of 3.4 billion. Finally, the interest rate declines by 5.7 billion. First of all, an increase in budget binding by 12.7 billion was made clear by 2.1 billion dollars. external health insurance spending according to a review of earlier expenses. As in 2014, the main explanation for maintaining health insurance during the current year is that measures have not been taken to change the patient's expense share in rhythms with the rise of the worldwide price to specialists in a new service contract that went into effect at the beginning of 2014, as agreed by budget 2015. For this reason, it looks as if a limp after a year will be worth another billion dollars. If action is not taken in the latter part of the year, the excess spending may be somewhat higher than this has been expected. This is a matter, however, that has not been discussed here at the Hall of Congress on the grounds that the State has already raised its budget. In a sermon, I have repeatedly pointed out that it has not been proclaimed, and as a result, the state has concluded agreements with expert physicians very much, which is the amount of money we are discussing, the expense share of patients. This is important in the discussion of the patient's financial share. Second, additional productions are expected to be carried out at tourist attractions and for the maintenance and maintenance of the road system because of the large tourist stream to the country. One is expected to be 1.8 billion. the single-change to the road generation that is divided into 1.3 billion stock costs for a particular road project and 500 billion, respectively. K. contributions to strengthening, reforming, and maintenance of road traffic rupture. The development of the road is Gothic Road, Yellow Sea, Cold Valley, Uxabours. However, an estimated 850 million is expected. K. a single donation for building and protecting operations at tourist locations owned or in charge of the state. As the number of tourists increases, the need for maintenance and construction has become urgent at tourist locations. In view of the delay in the work of financing projects at tourist destinations in the current year by means of public donations from a government fund. Remuneration will be expected to continue to be considered and may be implemented later. Third, 1.2 billion dollars is expected. increased contributions due to the increased pension rate in the B-lSR department, which has already begun the pension. These include increased expenditures based on the first nine months of the year and on the future accounts of the year's pay. This account contains only information on the amount of money already paid but not other increases that could occur later in the year as in the expected collective agreements. Fourth, an additional 1.1 billion contribution is proposed to support the uplift of the service team at the beginning of 2015, which is mainly explained by the increase in winter services. It is thought - provoking about how much expenses we spend on snow or winter services have taken over the budget of budgets year after year and when combined, the differences between what has been estimated here in the budget and what has come to the conclusion of many billions of dollars are due only to snow or winter service. I believe that it is important to pay particular attention to this team when it comes to a future discussion, that we are not in the light of experience that there is a failure for this service, and so must be considered, after these issues have been taken into consideration for the implementation of the budget. In this regard, I refer to winter services, such as those in the founded system, that the level of service that has been adjusted cannot be excluded from the reality of the budget. This is the cold reality of so many institutions in the national system and must be relevant in the road. I'll say this even if I realize how much winter service divides the population of the country, the trades around the scattered areas, tourism companies, and so on, but also in many other places, in welfare, health, and other places. Fifth, an estimated 850 million. K. higher donations given by government measures to reduce the head position of the secure housing system in the current year. The main explanation of the need for increase is that in a reevaluation plan, a larger proportion of the decline is now expected to pass through the remuneration side of the State Fund instead of the income side in the form of a special character discount, as the terms of the budget were expected. Sixth, 825 million is expected. K. In line with the government's approval, additional contributions are made for refugees. The agreed amounted to a 1 billion contribution in the current year, but upon a closer examination, it was found that a fraction of that amount is expected to fail until 2016. It is expected that donations will be made to 2nd. budgets for 2016 will be increased accordingly. Other large expenditures include 716 million. K. increased contribution to the County Fund in line with a revised State Fund programme in 2015, 705 million overpaying public lawsuits, which is partly explained by increases in the boxing and the payoffs, and finally 3,09 million. K. increase in expenses since the planned reduction of contributions due to the recovery of the disability burden of pension funds. Other increases in budget binding, except for a total of 2.2 billion dollars. In contrast, a reduction in the reassessment of the expenses of several system-required spending workers in the current year is 940 million. In this way, child - welfare expenses are expected to be about 600 million below the estimated budget, 200 million less expenses for interest, and a total of a total of less responsibilities of pay of less than 140 million. Expenditures funded by the state's income increase almost 3.5 billion on the bill. The increase is much clearer by the financial tax paid by the state's funds and is almost entirely due to the higher money previously paid, especially by the National Bank. The re-established plan of GDP allows for a 5.7 billion reduction from current budgets. This decrease is largely due to a lower interest rate of domestic loans due to a lower interest rate per year than expected in the budget. The Habitat Lab's work project in June calculates lower management growth in 2015 by a percentage level from the terms of budgets. This change affects the interest rate for government bonds, government stocks, Bank of Iceland and RIKH 18. In addition, because of the high demand for letters, the growth at which there was a limited impact on the fruitage requirement of government bonds, including from foreign investors. It should be noted, then, that a total of 5.7 billion of the previous year's unforeseen expenses have already been taken into account. Largely 5.1 billion have been set aside for reevaluation of reassessments of the reimbursed budgets for collective agreements between 2014 and 2015. It is hoped that by November the total reassessment of pay costs of an Member State fund will be met in the light of the regulations and agreements made in the latter part of this year. It is expected that appropriate changes will be made on the bill if necessary prior to its final payment at the General Assembly. Then the bill suggests transporting 405 billion. K. finished due to volcanic eruptions north of Lake Bay in the fall of 2014. This is the task of unpredicted expenses. Although the eruption was completed in February of this year, it was the government's opinion that continued metabolic action and monitoring were needed beyond what constitutes part of the daily management and activities of the institutions. The government approved this in April. to provide a number of institutions with a raise of 405 billion. K. in 2015 due to the disaster in January and February and the estimated cost in March and September. I would also like to call attention to the fact that during the present year, strikes have resulted in the loss of the services of various health institutions, which have led to a prolonged waiting period for various medical procedures in the health system. As a result of government coverage, the Ministry of Health and the Ministry of Economics and the Ministry of Economics are considering how to achieve an increase in financing action, which is considered to be related to success in a shortened list and whether it would be possible to begin to some extent this year. In any case, it would be assumed to accept it as a payment on the budget bill for the coming year. In the government, a health minister suggested that there be a special effort to shorten a waiting list, and it was adopted to support it. This bill does not provide an updated proposal that may be useful in this subject in 2015 but because of the current work between the recruitment process, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Health, the Health Minister, I would like to recommend that this action be started when the current year comes to the treatment of the council on the case. A respectable president. I will now account for changes in the interest of government funds, government companies and funds presented in Article 3. The bill. The 1st is suggested that the general financial and economic loans on behalf of the state's funds be 55 billion. In payment of the budget, it was estimated that the loans of the A State Fund this year would be 60 billion, all within the country. The change from budget is 5 billion for reduction and is in line with the reevaluation of the state budget for the current year. The 2nd Amendment proposed changes in the state's budgets according to the prospects for this year. It's 500 billion. K. reduction of loans to Vella-hön March Corp. Accordingly, 2.1 billion will be in accordance with the re-evaluation schedule. The 3rd Table suggests changes in authority to give state responsibility for the loans of companies and funds that are authorized to borrow separately. It is the only change of 18 billion dollars. reduction of land reimbursement warrant. The company received 57 billion dollars. a bill for borrowing with the state responsibility of the budget. However, it is now looking for a much smaller budget and a total of 39 billion dollars to be borrowed from the company. The fourth stipulation is suggested to provide special loans for the reimbursement of loans made available for subsidies of 70 billion dollars. Funds have a warrant for up to 200 billion dollars. Retribution to this purpose is, therefore, an adjustment of 130 billion. The legal rights has not yet been revised, but in a reevaluation plan, it is designed to reimburse up to 70 billion of this budget if conditions in the financial market are considered to be favorable to it. There are about three sources in the bill, and they are outlined in Article 4. It is. First, there is a warrant for buying or renting a suitable home for the office of the local prosecutor and the district attorney. Second, it is applied for authority to become a founder of the Asian Investors Bank and accept that the Icelandic stock market will be 17.6 million dollars or 0.019% of the bank's capital. Third, it is suggested to allow VOLV Ohf. to negotiate with the city of Reykjavík for planning and sale on land rights at the Top Search 1 in Reykjavík, as the value of any part of the RUSOhf will be. This is a new one to reduce society's debt. A respectable president. It should be noted that the bill does not include any possible financial impact on the state funds associated with the disposal of capital stealing. The network of fallen banks has agreed to pay stability contributions in the current year in order to go to forced agreements. Here at the General Parliament today was an approved bill to be paid for the development of the waste groups in order to complete a contract, but starting from the time the Council confirms that there is a request, the matter is actually out of the hands of the council, the government and the Secret Bank, and put into the hands of the reefers and the courts. If this plan continues to run, the rest of them won't have to pay a 39% stable tax next year. However, at the time of the bill, there was not enough comprehensive assessment of the broilers' proposals and possessions that may move to the State from broken - ups and to the extent that this year or after next year's events. If there is a agreement on the stability of the broilers, it cannot be excluded that the necessary changes to the budget bill could be made before it is adopted for the final payment at the Council, but it can be said that with the delays that have been made to the bill I referred to here and was taken care of from around 3. and earlier this evening's votes, as well as the tables for the declaration of a demanding meeting in individual factions, have greatly increased the likelihood that it will not be until the next year that these donations will affect the financial situation. In this way, it can be estimated that the effect will be more likely to be involved at the Convention on a budget bill for 2016 than not at all about the bill being discussed here. A respectable president. I have now studied the key elements of this bill for financial support by 2015. I suggest that the bill, following this discussion, be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. The Senate budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u60	Madam President. On page 18. 42 on the budget bill will review the role of interest laws under budgets, but budgets will assume that all predictable budgets will be provided in budgets, but financial funds will be sought for sources that cannot be provided on budgets. Despite these provisions, here are some suggestions and suggestions that were totally anticipated. I'd like to mention road repairs due to pressure on tourists. There were suggestions on how to finance it. It was taken from the greater part of the government. Then came the suggestions. This can be said of construction at tourist locations. It was mentioned in a committee program, that was discussed and suggested, but the greater part of the government gave it to them. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How is it that he makes budgets that are so clearly involved in the role of sheep? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u61	Madam President. It is ultimately in the hands of the council to take a stand on such a proposal. I bring in a bill in this suit after approval in the government, which suggests that we agree to take on a number of urgent road initiatives, on the one hand because the number of tourists continues to increase and the corresponding roads are under tremendous pressure, and there is no longer much longer to be asked with effort on that level and because at the time this proposal appeared in the government, the ratings of the present year were considerably higher than those proposed by the budget. When these two things come together, I believe that there is a good justification for the matter before the council in that suit, but the last word of the council is about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u62	Madam President. I hope we can work this out better when we talk about it. I expect the highest. If so, the minister will be in the Senate Hall to discuss these matters more fully. I'd like to ask you later on on in plans for profit from banks. The cost of money is far more than expected. On a budget board, we wanted to plan a better plan for 2015, but we were in the budget because we suspected that the plan was all too low, which happened during the day. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: How can the budget be approved late in December with a certain amount, and then the bank's income is approved by the same party on behalf of the bank's owner a few weeks later? Can this information not be obtained before the law is accepted? Good planning is important, both on the income side and on the remuneration side, for us who are expected to provide the Commission with support and follow up the budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u63	Madam President. First, I want to make it clear that I have put a very special emphasis on not offering suggestions in the budget, which is not a real reason for that discussion. I believe that when you look at it, it was for the most complete exception that the government decided to post here under a financial debate with some means of spending that were anticipated, as the law says. With regard to plans, including I'll agree with it by reason of interest. A senator's concern is that this plan is realistic and reliable. In the financial and economics department, we do not make an independent budget for interest, but call for a budget for the relevant materials, in this case from the Bank Office, and we put into the budget of the programs that come from our source. The bank, in this case, is controlled by the Bank of the Lands, making proposals for interest, and then they have to agree to a shareholder meeting. It won't happen until after an approved budget. When the remunerations grow, as in this case, that in itself is a luxury problem to me. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u64	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech. I'd like to start by saying that the situation may be that much of that because of the growing profits. When they are withdrawn, the original equation of over 3 billion from the budget, says here on page 6. 44. But I wanted to ask the highest question. Minister, because I find the effect of collective agreements strange only to a small extent in the bill, the Ministry has not been evaluated for the impact of collective agreements before the government signed. This bill has recently come forward, and it is said that a crime is not taken into account. I find it very special if I haven't. I'd also like to ask the highest. A minister may have thought to take the money from the bill for financial support.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u65	Madam President. I realized that this bill is very useful to the team, especially because of the development of extreme expenses. In terms of the findings of a formality, it involved only a small part of the labour market. To the extent that a court order gave a clue to the people he tied, I feel that there is no lack that the bill will show that effect. However, the bill does not assume that a judgment will apply to someone other than the one it tied. I believe that at the Ministry, we had a measure of pity in the position that when the bill was taken together, there was still a debate with a large group of public employees, and therefore I think they're very careful that we're still evaluating the final impact of this year's contracts for the whole year and that, if need be, we're going to make some adjustments before we're done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u66	Madam President. I would've liked to see better revised numbers in the bill and the correction between discussion. Another thing I would like to draw the attention of a minister and ask about is if it would be a mistake to turn on it. The bill says that there are 3 billion and 2.1 billion on page 30 on the Web site. 52, and I'm gonna ask you which one's the right number. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister: There is talk that money should not be passed between investments and businesses. However, a proposal is made for the Economics to move 40 million. K. between these factors. This is not in harmony with the official budget we're working on here, and then it would be interesting to know why a new financier had not been hired, which would have had a great impact on the new issue of government; there is no one on the bridge until after the New Year's Eve. It is the two things on page 19. 45 and then on page 20. 52, which speaks of a decrease of $3 billion and 2.1 billion, respectively.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u67	Madam President. I turned back from making changes because of money from the Secret Bank in my story, and I believe that explanations on these figures on quoted pages differ, but I am not in a position to examine them between what I listen to. In terms of finance, it's a natural process. A retired financier requested that his return be changed, and an assistant fund manager has performed his work in the past few months. But the vacancy has been advertised, and the deadline has expired, and we expect the job to be filled in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u68	A respectable president. I was hoping we'd get a small, cuddly bill to raise the budget this time, because we've got a lot to do on a budget board. But there isn't, and once again there's an amazing amount of joints here that have no business in a bill for financial support. That caught my attention at the top. The minister would say that this government had never added to a budget-infested bill that did not belong, for I am still recovering from the 2013 budget bill when they were even asking for extra funds because the presidency had to create more quirks. I'm the highest. Secretary of finance to read the Commission's opinion of the minority both in 2013 and in 2014. Today, for example, we have old stories, such as the Traveller's Fund, where we are talking about 850 million in this bill. Last year, that was considerable amounts, I don't remember, 600 and some million, and I remember it was also 2013. It's the highest. Don't Ministers agree that it is impossible to make any better plans than this and constantly bring this team back into the budget? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u69	Madam President. What I said back in the second century, was that the government has kept this to a minimum, and I have striven to keep free from the financial benefits that would rather be in the budgets of the next year. There have been some suggestions in the budget for the past few years, and perhaps there are examples in this financial bill where people can ask themselves: " Is this a total of unforeseen expenses? No doubt there are some examples of this. But we bring them here with an explanation, and I'm always ready to take that discussion, and in the end it is up to the council itself whether or not it is to agree with the evidence they already have when this is appropriate. I specifically mentioned a road venture in a previous answer, but we did. In principle, a senator agrees that the budget has a purpose and that it should stick to it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u70	A respectable president. I would like to ask questions on page 18. 78, which is a medical cost, the figure is 1.2 billion. This was the same thing last year because governments did not set up a law code, which they announced in the budget. This is what I think is very serious. We can be happy that the costs of patients were lower, but these are not practices. You can't come back like this. The Parliament agrees with the legal requirements that require regulations. If the goal is to reduce the cost of patients, of course we'll deposit the amount into the budget. I would have thought this was a violation of the law. What's going on? Minister on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u71	Madam President. It would be a violation of financial law not to raise the register, despite the fact that the council had rejected the proposal presented here for the council. On the other hand, if the council agrees with the proposal, it would take a position on the subject proposed by a health - care minister that the bill will not be raised in spite of a planned plan. There are many reasons why health Ministers have abandoned plans for raising the registry, and this has been repeated. It's gone a little further since the contract with expert physicians. This has long been the case with the council that because of these plans, the expense department of patients has been greatly increased. The conclusion, however, is that the State has made a significant contribution to the cost of patient participation as a result of expert medical services.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u72	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The secretary of the budget for a great presentation on this bill. I also welcome the conclusion, which is all the more promising, promising 17 billion from the budget itself. It's time to celebrate, it's a pleasure. I wanted to find out what is on the page. 45 that sales in a total of 35% of the National Bank will now be expected to be carried out in 2016. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if he feels it likely in view of the fact that he could now take on a trade process and then possibly have an Iceland bank in hand with the government, whether it is practical or even desirable if the goal is to achieve a good price for the Lands Bank to attack or assume a new sale in the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u73	Madam President. For a few years now, we've had financial resources to sell what is more than 70% of the government's property. The situation is at present that the Bank Management Board is preparing this sale and has announced that it will introduce its primary findings later this year, while fully presenting ideas for sales and implementing the sale of this item early in the next year, or in January. In itself, it is difficult to talk about it until the Bank Office has made this observation possible whether it will happen next year or whether it should occur over some longer time than I have thought to be a bed for a considerably greater share supply compared with the recent development of rolls. [[The president calls.]] Then it is considered whether the bank needs to be reduced, making a sale of this 30% item a little lighter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u74	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer. I have another question for the source. It discusses a warrant for Iceland's membership in the Asian Investigation Bank. This raises some questions. This is covering $2.3 billion. K. in a foreign currency and a fifth of that amount should be paid immediately or soon. I wondered: What are the reasons for Iceland to be involved in such investment banks that work exclusively in Asia and the Pacific, working only on infrastructure projects? Why does Iceland want to be in this bank? Other nations do not like it, such as the United States and Japan. How can this benefit taxpayers? I understand how this can benefit some companies, e.g. Icelandic engineering companies who want to share in assignments in Asia. [[The president calls.]] Is it normal for taxpayers to set aside 2.5 billion of their currency so that engineers could be able to participate in the work in Asia?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-04-29.u75	Madam President. I believe there are two things here. On the one hand, against this investment comes property, sellable property, and sellable property. There is all evidence that by participating in the bank's establishment, they will become founded on the bank, they will be much more able to look forward to the growth of their investment than if they wanted to try to be a member of the bank in later stages. Then there's the other. I think it's very important that we do what we can to strengthen and promote Icelandic export companies in their jobs, including engineering clinics, architects, geologic experts, and anything that has to do with the expertise we have to provide and can offer. Since Iceland is involved in the bank, he will lend money to such parties, or the bank would not do so, and it would be more difficult for an Icelandic company, which is, yes, the taxpayers, to attend a job in this area. [[The president calls.]] Hopefully, we will succeed in this area, as in other parts of the world, in strengthening exports. [[The president calls.]]
