ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u1	Borist has a letter from what? 8th yrs We're out of Suðvest. His son Jónasson's attitude that he could not attend a council meeting at the next time. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly as his assistant, Mt. 1 of the left movement's list of green bids in the district, Resa Brynjólfsdóttir Brynfjordsdóttir. Vosa Brynjólfsdóttir Brylfóttir has taken her place before at the General Assembly, and she is welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u2	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Education and Culture, Industrial and Business Ministers, Ministers of Social and Housing, and Foreign Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to use this opportunity here during the queries class to briefly place foreign languages on the program, get a response at the highest level. Minister of foreign affairs to do so, and only look at what is going on about one particular matter in the foreign service. So I would like to discuss Boko Haram and the dreary news from Nigeria time and again, news of extensive human rights violations there. They are robbing girls of all kinds of action that we have not seen before. It seems like a terrible situation. Now I ask the secretary of state what foreign services and the government are doing internationally to promote some sort of solution in Nigeria. I do not ask the least of these questions because, throughout history, the Icelandic government has been able to use its influence on such matters. I take Palestine and Israel as an example in which we have been able to enter as a small nation with our language, our emphasis on the international treaty, and so on. Similarly, a foreign minister and foreign service have promoted what is happening in Ukraine, and I would like to ask, in view of this international activity, to bring up the situation in Nigeria, whether we are encouraging some action against Boko Haram, and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u4	A respectable president. I thank the senator for his inquiry. You're right. You're right. A senator, the news we are receiving, and the facts that we see about the situation in Nigeria, and Boko Haram's conduct is terrible. Hv. A senator named Palestine and Israel. I don't want to compare it to that, I'd rather compare this to the situation we watch with the ISIS criminals that kill and murder people in large groups in the Middle East, Iraq, Syria, and other places. Sadly, the situation in Nigeria has not received as much attention as the calamities mentioned here in Syria and Iraq, but there is still much serious in Nigeria. We have discussed these matters and have convened internationally, whether in the United Nations or in other places where this is being discussed. I'm not gonna make a statement. A senator, that we have first taken the matter up at meetings, whether in the United Nations or elsewhere, but I have taken the matter up with Nigerian officials, had meetings with three advisers not at all long ago, in the last fall, where the matter was discussed and realized that governments are having a great deal of trouble handling or dealing with these guerrillas or these terrorists that Boko Haram Haram is because of how the country is, how large it is, scattered, etc. I would like to say that the Icelanders could be especially helpful in this matter. We can, like anywhere else, do so with humanitarian assistance and something like that. Yet, there has not been much further. I believe that I need to give support to Nigerian governments in the most efficient way possible. Many have declared that this should be done. I think the Americans have supported something, but there are guerrillas, there are terrorists who go to village from village to village, rob and murder children, women and old men, and everyone who gets them. [[The president calls.]] It's scary, of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u5	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I'd like to explain clearly that I was not comparing or saying that this was the situation for the Mediterranean and Nigerian conditions, but I talk about these events at the same time because conditions at the Mediterranean level have been appallingly frequent and frequent, while Iceland has been able to apply itself to this situation in its language and other measures throughout the years. Similarly, the situation in Ukraine has been very painful in a completely unsolvable way and is in Nigeria, where Iceland also has Icelanders, and the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is to be commended for his progress in these matters, used in a lawsuit. I'm glad the Nigerian violations of human rights are on the radar of foreign service and government and are at the highest level. A minister to use more on these matters against the disgusting violations of human rights taking place there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u6	A respectable president. Once again, I thank you. A senator, for this certainly is a matter of interest. As I mentioned earlier, we have supported or accepted a statement when it comes to criticizing or challenging, or looking for ways to influence the Nigerian government. Of course, Nigeria is a sovereign state with legitimate government, and we have supported it in their fight. We have and have had excellent dealings with Nigeria. Iceland has a lot of business with the country and has had a long relationship between the two countries. As a result, we have shown understanding and interest in this matter, supporting it to the best of our ability as governments. I welcome the senator's encouragement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u7	President. In the opinion of an agent presented on Friday, some recommendations were made about improvement in the administrative department that could prevent the recurrence of similar events. One of the things an agent considers in his opinion is about the rules of the government. In fact, he had written the highest. Prior to last year, prime minister received a rather strong answer from the minister, so to speak. It referred to the moral code of the former government and made it evident in some way today. On the other hand, an agent has now reasoned that this understanding does not succeed in the Constitution, as well as in the rules of which it is stated that it translates out the working period of the then government, the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, who retired on 22 May 2013. A respectable president. Of course, I realize that it has not been long since an agent gave his opinion, but I would like to ask the highest authority. Whether he intends to respond to this recommendation even though it has not already been done, and in view of that, he should be able to give an answer. The letter of August 15 states that the possible changes in rules were under way in the government, and it is not likely that they will be attacked for some change. It is clear, then, that there is no moral code in place for the government, and I would like to ask the highest degree. Prime Minister whether he intends not to address the challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u8	A respectable president. Thank you for asking. But I'd like to say at the outset that I don't completely agree with an interpretation. The senator's comments on an agent's comments, and in fact not the answers of the Ministry of Presidency to an agent back then known as the bad boy, were not so. But first, what? A senator reviews it with the opportunity to remind them that it calls for a moral code for his own office and other institutions and reminds that it is Generalis to set such standards. In terms of the request for a response, a significant opinion of these comments in the Ministry is already begun with the aim of responding to them and attacking the necessary improvements. In terms of the code of ethics, in particular, an agent considers, apparently, that each government needs to establish its own code of ethics, but it can be read from the opinion of an agent that only the government is authorized to set moral standards, not necessary. That is one of the things to consider, then, whether there is a need for action and not to sharpen the obligation of governments to establish moral principles. At the same time, it is appropriate to remind that in a new bill on the Council of the Management Board of Iceland, which is being discussed here at the council and will continue to be discussed tomorrow, ethical guidelines are specifically aimed at sharpening their importance as well as the role of the Ministry of Presidency to take care that other institutions under it have a moral code. So the request is good, and it is good to be able to answer her in a way that will result in failure, and that work is in full effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u9	A respectable president. We may have different tastes about what's going on. I call it being sharp if you're the best. The prime minister receives an inquiry from an agent, and his answer ends like this: Has an agent himself established a moral code? If it's not to be sharp, I don't know what that word means. There is also a wording that it is a warrant, not an obligation, in the law. Then let's just change it. But it can also be asked if the highest. The prime minister will take advantage of this document he has. I've got the answer, he's going to do it first now that he's been sitting for two years soon. I'd like to ask, too, first of all. The prime minister says that it all came to his attention, whether he formed an opinion of what an agent is wondering, whether, in view of the incident that has taken place, the minister's assistants are, I think that the agent puts it this way, becoming some sort of spin doctor, whether it is becoming their role. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Does prime minister feel that it takes something to reconsider the law on assistant ministers? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u10	A respectable president. I have no objection to the question of how the assistant minister is discussed, and I'd like to discuss this with a change in the government law. Actually, I don't think that's the right kind of food. A senator that assists ministers primarily works as spinsmen of some kind. That may be the problem. So, a senator has gotten used to the last government, but I have not been aware that we put it to special emphasis in the present government. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, certain members of Parliament are known only to be like a companion. The senator, Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson, who crawls right here in: You have seven, you have seven. [[Up front.]] Says I've got seven helpers who haven't had time. A senator knows it's not true. I have two assistants, and there's only one on the payroll. That's a lot of practicality, a respectable president, but what. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, who merely concentrates on spinning in his politics, repeats here a bit of nonsense, even though he knows better. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u11	President. I'm in the same area as what I'm doing. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. I'm sure more people are curious about how to respond. Prior to the last January 22 of this leak, the prime minister will be recognized as U.S. Council agent. An agent has found that a former Minister of Internal Affairs was trying to influence the investigation in an abnormal way and lying here at the council and elsewhere. As a result, questions have been raised, not to speak in a strict way. What's the poll? Prime Minister of the commission? Will he respond in some way to the results of the agent? Does a prime minister intend to respond to the indications specifically directed to prime minister? Hv. A senator here spoke about ethics. What about the research on the Minister's work? Will the prime minister suggest a clearer understanding of the procedures of the secretary's work? Does the prime minister think that the registration of formal relations and meeting ministers needs to be more clear about the position of assistant ministers? Does the prime minister intend to set up a team in order to review the findings of the Allied emissary?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u12	A respectable president. Much of this involved the same questions as why. paritaprevir Well, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir came up here earlier, so I have to answer it in the same way. There is work at the Ministry of Presidency to pass through the agency's tips, and all of them will be failed on occasion. In particular, I would like to suggest that this will be useful for the work that is now being accomplished by changing the law on the Council of Control. It is good to say that not only are the comments directly addressed to the Ministry of Presidency but, on the part of the Ministry, are overrated to determine what to learn from it or how it can benefit from the work that lies ahead in changing the laws of the Council of Government. I know that the same kind of work has been done or done in the State Department. I don't think there's a reason to start a special team to go to this job, as the Ministry is fully capable of processing information from an agent's comments and will no doubt look at things like the points in question. A senator specifically asked about, the post of an assistant, the position of an agent of information, who should be political counsel and who should not, and what role they play.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u13	Thank you, Prime Minister for this. Is it true, then, that no other reaction is to be expected from the prime minister than the Council of Control? No other reaction can be expected from the prime minister or the Ministry of Presidency on the basis of an agent's opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u14	A respectable president. It is not clear that the Ministry of Presidency's reaction to the changes in the government law is limited. A proposal or bill that changes in the Council of Control were made prior to the appearance of an agent. As I mentioned earlier, all aspects of this opinion will be examined, and it will be determined whether any of them will learn of how the Ministry's work, the Ministry's Presidency, like other advisers, will be best handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u15	A respectable president. There is no need to comment on the seriousness of housing conditions, especially here in the capital area, as well as elsewhere in the country; the lack of apartments, financing buys apartment housing, and little access to rent houses, rent animals. There is evidence that a whole generation is, in effect, becoming involved and not being able to possess or control its first apartment. There are long-term suggestions on some housing improvements, but I wanted to ask the highest. Minister on their implementation. Long ago, more than two years ago, proposals for stock grants were made from state and rural areas because of social housing. Clearly, rural society is interested in starting up projects, which is the state's coming up and putting up such support. When can such a decision be expected and legal authority to provide strength? Secondly, proposals for one system of housing improve are offered long ago, with handsomely added to the current rent - rent system. In the fall, something was done in that way, but more is needed. It is very important that we immediately establish a policy on this common system of legislation. When is that to be expected? Finally, when rural society is interested in taking action in this area, it is very sad when the government is just as small as it is. That's why I wanted to strongly encourage the Minister to speed up the donation of a prime project that can make it possible for us to turn an emergency off on this difficult situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll's aged Árnason for this inquiry. We certainly share an interest in the house - to - house affairs, and I address his concern about the situation. As we have seen in the media during the past few days, temperature, especially here at the southeast corner, in the construction of a new home, and we see that very large groups of young people are entering the housing market. We also see, especially in the districts around us, in the downtown city of Reykjavík, that housing has been purchased under travel services, hotels, and boarding homes, which have made it possible for young students, for example, to have no place to live here. This is exactly what I've been focusing on since I got into the Ministry. I suppose so, like what's wrong. A senator was asking about the early bills to legalize stock granting grants and/or wax pay, since the proposal for the future housing project was not entirely acceptable to the council soon to come out here. We've worked hard to create an overall law on the benefits of housing, so rent payments will move from rural communities to the State and balance the support of those in the tenet for the support people have been receiving as members of their own housing. However, it is also important to point out that some of the suggestions that turned to young people who are concerned that housing costs are not on the table of social and housing ministers. It is the tax system changes that were also part of the suggestions available, and it is on the table of secretary of finance. Since then, we have been ordering informal work groups to cover the need for social housing in our rural communities so that we can start by getting information about what the real need is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u17	A respectable president. Metabolites of solution cannot occur too early. This has become a very serious situation. I want to say two special things. On one hand, in terms of wax payment. It is very important to change the law in a way that areas of rural society can be funded by social housing, regardless of where they borrow. Today it is tied to an apartment loan fund, and a camp loan fund simply cannot offer comparable benefits to what the largest rural society can earn on a free market. It's completely absurd to commit the rural population to just dealing with the camp loans in this regard. The other important thing is to change the law on the debt of rural society so that interested rural communities who are in debt in the vicinity of the capital, I mention both Kopavog and Hafnarfjord due to conversation with the leading members, can engage in further structure of social housing, and do not run up below the debt set. There is no material evidence that social apartments count into debt. [[The president calls.]] It is very important to change the rules in this regard, and these are both factors that are simple for the minister to bring about a change of motion immediately and to be of great importance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u18	Mr. President. Thanks for the pep talk. I think this is one of the things I can say that it is important for the Internal Affairs to look at the local administrations and the rules involved in the debt of rural society. What has been shocking about working with, however, is that there are no groups'plans on what the need for social housing is. Reykjavíkurburg may have taken the first step to agree to the construction of 100 social apartments each year for the next five years. They turn to people who have social or financial problems. We still have information about the facilities for disabled people. We will also have information about a service apartment for the elderly, and it is important to consider what the build - up need is for Bible students. This is exactly what we're trying to get around with our communities. The same is true of the changes in rents. [[The president calls.]] I'm saying it's very important. I also rejoice that the labour market members have been making very clear about the importance of housing now in terms of collective agreements. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u19	President. In the fall, the highest said. The prime minister on the leak matter that it was the most boring thing, of course it was for most people. He also declared, in a press interview with the State Radio on November 12, that he supported the minister for continued session, saying, "By permission of the president, I quote." ▪ In many ways, she is a victim in this matter. On the other hand, it seems clear that she did not have access to this case or knowledge. Now we know this is wrong, i.e. That was a false claim at the highest level. Prime Minister and he cannot keep up with her today. Let it be between parts. The Prime Minister criticized a few days later, already at the highest level. The former minister had given up his office, the nation for the conversational tradition of the highest rank. The prime minister felt that hatred was more than mere reasoning, and this aspect of the matter was very dark. With President's permission, the highest. Minister in interview of the Morning newspaper: I think there's a reason for everyone to worry about how social talk has developed. It is, of course, a result of a particular age that has ruled over the past few years. The more frequent, however, is not designed to build up and make society better. He says it takes more reasoning and less hate, and at the end, or the cover of the story, it is: The news status is that the people need to learn from this. Now I'm asking the highest. Minister: What do you think is the highest? Minister that the people need to learn from the case in the face of the decision? What is recommended. The prime minister of the nation learn from the current conclusions? How should the people react?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u20	A respectable president. First, there is the ability to establish questions at times. A senator is wrong, basically. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] - I'm glad I can make you happy. paritaprevir About time, Páll Árnason. First of all, I don't know that anything happened to him. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, former Minister of the Interior, had found a way to leak information from the Ministry. Second, I have never claimed that the people should learn from the leak. It may be that a headline of a story that spoke to me was in that way, but it has already been corrected like that. A senator would know if he was paying more attention to the media, for I have frequently warned that people would develop what is particularly social art and people on either side of the political bitch all over again, talking about the nation as one person, and think themselves to be advocates of that individual. When people start discussing themselves as members of the nation, they see the nation as one person, as a matter of question. A senator is wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u21	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for the event and entertainment he gave us through his reply. It may well be that the basis for my questions was wrong, but the criteria were interviewing the highest level. Prime Minister, record interviews in two media. I referred to him directly, saying that the social discussion was more hatred than reasoning, was harmful, and there is clear evidence that the Supreme Court did so. The case she was accused of has not been handled by a former justice minister. I can't figure it out, it's hard to answer nonsense, how to answer the statements that came from the highest level. Prime Minister that there is a tendency to be the highest. With all the evidence available, a former minister of justice had nothing to do with this. Perhaps it is the lesson we should learn from this matter - the ultimate one. Prime Minister, I, the nation - not always believe in conspirators, though they seem good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u22	A respectable president. I can't help overemphasizing what happened here. First, it is not true, as it were. One senator says that I was quoted as saying that the people should learn from this so - called leak language. Secondly, I reiterate what I said before, and what I said. A senator did not correct it: I don't know what to do. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir had come to leak information from the Ministry of Internal Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u23	A respectable president. On October 20, 2014, I submitted a written request to the secretary of finance for the provision of 80 billion dollars. in the so-called correction, the large transfer. I received an answer to that inquiry less than two months later. The answer contained no answer, i.e. that the question would not be answered but would be referred to a report to be published sometime later in the year. To that end, I can't settle down and put myself in touch with a respectable president for help to squeeze an answer out of the financial and economic secretary's office. That answer has not yet come, despite repeated requests, I have decided to seek my right to demand the minister of his duties and to answer questions asked for him. This will be done according to the ways I am skilled outside the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u24	This matter was taken up here in the General Assembly chairmanship, as well as at the meeting of the International Commission at a meeting of the council. Thus, the president responded by contacting the Ministry, which answered that reply would be made in a more full way than the previous three queries had been asked. The plan was, and I had hoped that it would be possible to be distributed at the beginning of a council after the New Year's Eve. It wasn't. Similarly, the president has been in touch with the Ministry of Economic Affairs during this month and has had the most recent answers reported at a meeting of the Senate earlier today that it was expected that these answers would be appropriate. In the middle of the week, a senator has called out to see light for the day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to start by reading Article 3. Anxieties No. 16/1998, which is as follows: These laws don't apply to weapons, equipment and chemicals. 1st and 2nd. which are owned by national security, police, imprisonment, or foreign police officers, or security officers who work under police control. A minister makes those specific rules.◯ In short, this means that the law of arms does not apply to the police. Police are in charge of secret regulations established by the Minister. There has been a huge, significant debate as to whether there is a source to keep the rules secret, but in any case, now the case is classified. They are so secret that not even members of the Parliament have access to them. I myself have beaten them once, and it was at a meeting of the General and Education Committee that I had to sign both for their receipt and divorce at the same meeting. I have certain things in that memory, but nothing more memorable than my opinion that their secrecy is absolutely unnecessary. Rightfully, police power agencies are vastly beyond the authority of an ordinary citizen. For this reason, it is fundamental to believe that governmental authority has authority over its citizens are under the cover of a democratic agency. There is no legitimate authority except by democratic authority. As long as the police's power warrants are secret, it's a democratic agent that's impossible and therefore not available. This is the first problem with the secrecy of these regulations, the lack of democratic authority. Another problem that is not so often mentioned is that police officers themselves are not able to carry the blame because their use of power makes them suspicious. In the so - called Brassville language, Iceland's first case where police shot a man to death, these secret rules were followed, or so we are told. Although I have no reason to question the evaluation of the authorities and the judges, I also lack most opportunities to confirm it because I cannot bear these rules to one or to any one, either to the lawyers or to the public. In October 2014, it was reported that the Marshal had bought something of some 1,50,250 machine guns, but the figures were not accurate at the time. The discussion that followed was characterized by some vague and misleading comments from various parts of the administration and even here at the great General Assembly. There were conflicting data on more or less everything that happened, whether it was the number of weapons, the kind of weapon, the anticipated use, the reason for buying, the means to use, or now to plan, or whether the guns had been bought over their heads or had been given. Since the 2013 election, I have not experienced a single campaign of political talk. This concluded with the awkward conclusion that the tape gun was stopped because of a disagreement between Iceland and Norway about whether to pay for it or not. Some rejoiced in victory over the outcome, but afterward, all the most important questions regarding the arms and the authority of the police continue. What weapons do the police need? How much and what species? What for? Under what circumstances will it use them? We will not answer such questions today. The reason is simple; we do not have the basis. The police'arms and authority documents are classified, and our decision to the high Council in itself is not of any importance, for we hardly know what we're talking about and must not tell what little we know. The first step, then, is to eliminate the secrecy of the police authority so that democratic debates over these matters can be introduced seriously and as a result, a democratic agency is obtained. One good thing came out of the gun thing, but that was what. The General and Education Committee intends to meet regularly with the State Marshal on the need of the police for arms and power rights. It is a positive development, but it is far from enough because following such a meeting, elected representatives will not be able to express themselves publicly or have any comments about the matter, since decisions remain in the administration itself. I suggest that the people have the right to know the boundaries of authority. Therefore, I suggest that police authority be made public. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u26	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for starting this discussion that I believe is very important and important that it is taking place here in the halls of the Generals. As we know, the role of the national police is to ensure the safety of our citizens. It is fundamental to the court that the police have the means to ensure safety as well as the public trust in the police to do that work and that the police are responsible for that trust. We are fortunate and have been fortunate to live in a country where the trust of the public with the police is very high. That principle applies to members of Congress who know that American police officers are not armed with firearms in their daily activities, and the weapons are stored at police stations or police vehicles. Under certain circumstances, police are authorized to weapons. Specific regulations on the use of power tools have been set up by the then Minister of Justice, in 1999, under the authority of Article 3. '98 weapons layer. They haven't been made public until now, that's exactly right. The reason for their secrecy and confidentiality is primarily that the rules contain information about law enforcement and the security of the State. As to whether the rules are published, it must be borne in mind whether the rules of the law were to be transmitted to the public. It also needs to be noted that the existence of the rules does not mean that there should be a suspicion toward the police. In our neighboring lands, they are published, not necessarily in their most detailed form. This is part of the views that must be proposed as to whether the rules should be published. In view of this, when I came to the State Department, the position of the State Marshal, the Police Union of the Police Department, and the national police chief, as well as the National Guard, to publish the controversial rules. Their stand was granted to me right before the weekend, and the final decision remains to determine their release. When making that decision, the key factor must be to ensure that the safety of the citizens is always the course to follow. Police law has legal regulations on the duties of police officers, capital warrants and warrants, search for men, and other involvements with the citizens. By the 14th paragraph. Police law No. 90/1996, police are authorized to exercise authority in carrying out their duties. Never, though, should the use of power go further than is needed at any time. This fundamental principle means that governments must be moderate in their control of power. The police must always honor the moderate order in carrying out their work. Then we'll set rules 12 and 13. general penalties on emergency custody and emergency rights and police use limits. According to Article 12. general penalties must not use defenses that are more obviously dangerous than the attack and the damage it might expect. As a result of this rule, the use of firearms is not an option except in the most dire situation when events have developed in such a way that the last resort is inevitable. Despite the use of weapons and any type of weapons specified in the rules, the Marshal will evaluate the need for equipment by police. It is necessary to avoid forming by a minister or a Ministry to purchase weapons, provided that financial rights and purchases are in accordance with rules. The official's assessment of the police's confidential need is based on a wide range of risk assessments that take into account the developments in the country and abroad and indicate likely future developments. During the past few decades, the Norwegian police have been looked to as regards the role of police, such as the Special Forces and other armed equipment. It is not permitted to use weapons and equipment other than the one approved by the State Marshal. The objective is for the police to use a uniform equipment that has been recognized by the governor. He has a special list of police arms property. In it, a police officer's log on the weapon of police officers and issued a warrant for the use of police firearms. The Ministry has received a letter of the General and Education Committee on the arms of police, which was untimely received on January 13 of the past. In part, the letter shows that the committee considers it important to inform the general state of law enforcement in the country so that it is better able to carry out its surveillance role with the executives and that the committee will be formally informed if anything changes in their circumstances. I have nothing to do with the proposals the committee presents in the letter and, in fact, welcomes the presence of the Committee to ensure that our law - enforcement agencies have legal authority and ability, it is of utmost importance for the discussion of this in the country. I want to finally reiterate what I said before, that by looking for the position of those who are familiar with these matters, I am now preparing to make a decision on how I am holding on to these rules.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u27	A respectable president. I welcome this discussion and good answers to the highest. A minister who wanted to emphasize some aspects of the matter. First, it is not clear that there is good reason for police to have the authority to use weapons and that they are the lizards of the case according to a moderate order, as the Supreme Court does. Minister fired earlier. It is also natural for police authorities to provide food for equipment needs and renewal. But in the autumn months, the debate was largely focused on where weapons would be stored. The decision to increase the availability of public policemen to arms in daily law is a political decision and not a decision made by individual police authorities. For example, the decision that firearms are usually kept in a police car affects the ability of policemen to use them and can also influence criminal arms and equipment. Therefore, caution is very important when discussing the general availability of weapons. In each of our neighboring countries, a major political question is whether or to what extent a general policeman should be armed in the field of day - to - day law enforcement. At last regarding the revelation of the rules, but I have a request at the highest level. Minister later today on this subject accurately, and the evidence of keeping it secret. However, I would like to agree only at this point that, in view of the fact that in all our neighboring countries, such rules are official, it is valid to argue that keeping them secret increases the risk of day - to - day jobs by police authorities and in the sense of uncertainty about police responses that are not law enforcement or law enforcement agencies or the nation's benefits. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u28	A respectable president. I'm here to celebrate the discussion today. I've had a chance to study the arms of the police through the work on the General and Education Committee at the Fall Council. I'm one of most of the people who ever wanted to believe that Iceland is mostly an unarmed country, though it's really far from the real world. But I've always trusted that if I hit a reindeer or a sheep, I can call the police, which, if necessary, bring a gun. I have also experienced being one of the few unarmed passengers on their way to shore by flight before grouses in the autumn. The fact is that every population in this country has a high international scale according to statistical evidence. However, we have had the wisdom to view guns as not to be public, public, or police. To me, it is clear that the police need arms to be controlled and that should not be forced. My opinion is that there is good for all to be found in the rules of arms and weapons use, i.e. the police's legal rights, if they're official. If the law on the use of the police was revised and subsequently made public, it is not likely that a single office would then need to set a closer standard according to local circumstances. Maybe that part of the rules needs to be closed, though I'm not sure. These matters are discussed in the afternoon, a dignified president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u29	A respectable president. The recent debate over the arms and arms of police has revealed some peculiar facts. Among the sights, it seems very difficult for the Minister of the Interior to answer the three talks of Senator Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, the arms of arms, and the arms of police and national security. I'm surprised that her questions cannot be readily answered. You ask yourself, " What is the reason why the State Department cannot provide answers to questions about the need for police firearms, risk assessment, or other formal assessment of where such weapons are needed? ' Why can't you answer questions about who is inside or outside the police, evaluate the need for firearms, such as the highest level of firearms. Minister mentioned earlier? The sexual and epidemiological developments that took place during the best efforts of the Landland Guard to carry a firearm from Norway exposed some of the weaknesses in this series of languages. In this context, it was best to understand that the need for U.S. law enforcement agencies for firearms depended on when the Norwegian army needed to dispose of small guns. A description of the agreements made with the Norwegians showed that it was more unclear which members of the Icelandic legislators were willing to commit to the United States to arms fund, but the people seemed to have been very careful about whether or not they were taking gifts or making a contract to pay money. Of course, such a plan is not designed to increase the confidence of the public in the law enforcement agencies of the country. There have been reports that at least some of those who conduct the police believe that there is a need to improve in the arms of law enforcement agencies in the country, but there has been no convincing evidence that this assessment is correct. Police in the country have so far been unarmed for public law enforcement work, but armed police Special Forces have been responsible for dealing with armed men at the time of such an incident. Thus, a clear understanding between the general and the specific when it comes to the arms of the police and the arrangement has reflected an Icelandic reality in which the weapons shuttle hears an exception. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u30	Mr. President. The secretness of police policy means that the public can't hold over the police for their use. Why it matters. I can give you an example. When I protested the civil rights violations of the Icelandic government against members of Falun Gong at the time, when they came here because of the arrival of the president of China, Jiaing Zemins, to the country, the four of us were arrested in the Gestapo area and put in a car. We kept asking why we were arrested. We didn't get any answers, but after asking eight or nine times, the police laughed a little bit in the car and said, "It's not a American movie. But they obviously did not know what we knew, that the Constitution says that they must inform people why they are arrested. Because we knew that we were suing the police and working on the case before the district and letting the money we received, or I did, run it to Amnesty International, for the whole purpose was to protect human rights and criticize a violation of them. We wouldn't have started any charges unless we knew where the border was regarding police use. We knew that according to the Constitution, the police were breaking the constitution with the use of force. It is so important that the public can maintain the authority, the legal authority and the judicial authority, and especially when the authority is resorting to violence, which they certainly need and properly to do under certain circumstances, but that is why the public need to know where the boundaries are and to be able to maintain.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u31	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank the verbal debate. It may have been sooner, but this is what it is. I want to thank you, too, the highest. Minister of the Interior for her answers. This is a matter that we must never let down, law enforcement, and especially weapons that may have appeared especially during the last fall. No wonder things went upside down like a whale. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson mentioned earlier, the discussion simply went upside down, as the news showed that police should be armed. In fact, I myself have been terrified because one of the biggest things that makes me proud to be an Icelander is that the police in Iceland are unarmed and have been in the past. All I'm saying is the Bounty Revolution 2008 and 2009. I wondered about the discussion about the arms of the U.S. police during the fall, what the situation would have been if the police had been armed in that conflict. Would anyone have died? I often wondered about it. We do well to ask ourselves, " What would have happened if the police had been armed? ' Fortunately, Iceland's riots and riots are very rare. If you go to Wikipedia, you will list 15, 16 events of that sort, riots, riots, strikes, and other conflicts that have occurred since 1905. The best part about all of this is that no one has ever died in this. But it is not the same with other countries where police have weapons, people die. The feeling you have here with an unarmed police force is unique. I was in America for Christmas. I can tell you, walking down the streets of Los Angeles or shopping and seeing police with a pistol in their belt didn't make me feel safe. None. I'll be in another speech later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u32	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for taking up this important subject, but at the same time, I'd like to stress that it's really important how such a discussion is done. It must be based on the right facts, and it is important that misinformation be not raised. This can affect people's sense of security and at the same time make it difficult for the police to do their job. Police law states that the role of the police is the first to protect public security and order, seek to secure the security of the citizens, protect the rights of property, public interests and any legitimate activity. The same is true of the police, such as anyone with a security or rescue role, that it must be their first safety. These two factors, i.e. Police police security and police security must determine the equipment the police need to operate. The Marshal has been assigned to evaluate the needs of the police for equipment, organization and training within the limits required by the police arms regulations. The Marshal has won a need analysis based on risk assessment and risk analysis. Thus, there have been professional reasons for making any decision on the need for equipment, training, and organizational adjustments. They are likely to contribute to the trust of the police year after year by about 85% of the nation's population. Police work must have confidence. This could increase confidence if the Parliament's surveillance was increased by better informed by the General and presented with the need for analysis, risk assessment, and risk analysis made by the police. Then I also believe that it is important that the above - mentioned arms rules be made official so that the process and police records are clear. Finally, I'd like to say that it is important to say whether there is a renewal or an update to the equipment and police organization or a fundamental change in weapons. Neither today nor in recent years has there been any fundamental change in arms or police control of weapons. There is no plot or debate about officers walking armed with firearms in their daily activities. [[The president calls.]] However, it is clear that the police must be able to carry out their role in handling situations, requiring necessary equipment and weapons. [[The president calls.]] The most important thing is the safety of the public and that of those who take care of that safety role. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u33	President. I want to be like other members of Congress to thank the Seminar for having begun this discussion and the highest. Minister for her answers. But this discussion is brought about by strange events, I'd like to call it what came on the surface of the last autumn. It was found that the officials can decide for no reason to renew, as well as the more important things to update, police weapons, and diplomatic services. It was, apparently, because the weapons weren't meant to cost us anything. Then it turned out that these weapons were in storage at Keflavík Airport, and customs did not seem to know about them. It was only after all this discussion in the magazines and elsewhere that these weapons were then sealed. Once again, I believe, how this could all come to be. I think there's something wrong with the administration over there. There may be times when a police officer can decide on his own to update the police equipment, but that's when it needs to be changed. As we have seen, the laws and procedures are confidential and the highest. A minister here says that she is thinking about and that in the days ahead she will decide whether or not they will be made public. If she makes the decision not to make it public, I believe the Council has to come and change the law to make it a duty to be made public.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u34	A respectable president. Because of the autumn discussion, the current police arms property is not necessarily the best. Overall, the weapons could be described as a disunited collection of different weapons from different times. It would be better to try to reconcile the equipment on national level. But I warn that the need for a police officer for weapons is assessed or introduced in the light of special threats or, in the form of panic over certain events. The evaluation of the need for weapons by the police needs to be based on the wide variety of work done by the police and local facilities. The importance of the police arms is that it is primarily based on professional views and by formal means. It is important that the police make clear measures for decision making in this area and consider denatural changes in equipment if these changes are discussed on a broader foundation. A respectable president. So I put it together: Iceland has a lot of guns for a lot of people. The police need weapons to be controlled. The management of weapons requires rules and regulations that should be public. It's important that the weapons are the best equipped, and weapons must be by formal means. Thus, weapons should not be visible, but information about their presence and how they should be worked publicly. Thus we can develop the basis for continued confidence in the police.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u35	A respectable president. There is no evidence that the weapons of criminals have increased here, so there is a need to weapons the police. It does not seem convincing that wars in distant lands require military force on the use of everyday activities. However, reports on the training of public police in the use of firearms indicate that changes are being made. Certainly, then, police generals are taking up arms in everyday activities to assume that criminals will increase their arms. As a result, there is an increased risk of violent acts, with its tragic consequences. The role of the police at the head of such reverse development can not be seen, and the best of all, that the plans for the increase in police arms will be put at the hands of the fastest. In addition, it is noteworthy that indications have shown that recovery from weapons is a weakness and as a result, the police's regulations on arms control and the use of weapons have to be on weak ground, as has been attributed here. This and discussion need to be considered that may lead to a better outcome. There is no doubt that there is a need to improve law enforcement in the country. The role of police officers is certainly of utmost importance, but their lot is not always as worthwhile. However, an increase in weapons would not accomplish anything to improve their status. It would be far closer to making an effort to increase the number of policemen and to improve their skills through increased and improved professional education. This would benefit both the community and them. This would help to relieve officers of the work load that is undoubtedly high and even so that police work cannot always be done as necessary. At the endGunnlaugsson I'd like to draw attention to the fact that in a foreign field, the police's arms may increase or reduce safety. So it is possible to ask, "Is this recent emphasis on the increase in weapons is in harmony with the realities of society, and we discussed, among other things, at a meeting of the General and Education Committee? "
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u36	V.E.G. President. I think almost everyone agrees that there is a need for weapons to be carried on by the police and the National Guard. At a meeting we had in the fall with all the facts, it has to be that way. But it's just a matter of how this is done and whether this secret thinking is good for us. In the autumn debates, the big gun case, Helen Ólafsdóttir wrote quite a great and good fistula to the Core, while Helen works as a adviser for the United Nations, including arms and security issues. In this article, she says, with the permission of a president: The first thing to consider is the Commission on the import of weapons. There are such regulations in the United States, but the police are under special regulations, and it is clear from the questions of members of Congress that these procedures are not very familiar, if at all, under such rules. It is customary in Western society, however, that these matters, especially the selection of firearms for law enforcement and military forces, are taken over by special members of the Parliament, which monitor the European Commission, especially in terms of taxpayers' expenses. She says it's normal to work these matters on a professional committee. If I may, by permission of the president, read the conclusion of this article: It should not be read so that I have developed opinions about any kind of weapon system that is appropriate in this case and realize that the police have tools and tools to protect themselves and citizens against criminals or even terrorists, but there are international guidelines on how these matters should be best handled in democracies where the clearness of the administration is the cornerstone of democracy and the decisionliness of being next to public citizens in particular when it comes to law enforcement. She goes on saying: Therefore, it may be suggested to the Icelandic government and members of Congress to carefully study international rules and counsel on these matters and to examine carefully the use of the cards in neighboring countries. It may also be that Britain's police have a declared goal of translucency about buying and using weapons within the police department. It is not considered a good practice in democracies that police firearms and their use is private police and minister. That's where the dog is buried, and we're just supposed to open the discussion and the transparency in this society. Then we don't have to get into this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u37	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Councilmen and the highest. Minister of the local ministry for the most practical and effective response to this discussion. If I understand the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister gives a positive look to open these rules, but there is the possibility that the rules were not harmonized with the view that they would be made public, so it is reasonable to revise them accordingly. The person here has no objection to being secret in the police organization, I'm sure. The key point is that the citizens of the country have the right to know where the authority lines are and they do not know it at the moment. Like what? 9th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! came into this office earlier, the role of the police is to ensure the security of the citizens and their security, but also to protect their own safety. It comes to the question of moderate behavior, which is not necessarily light to the citizens of the city. So it is very important that these rules be made public. One thing I notice in this other very positive discussion is that there are still facts about the matter here. General. For example, it is not clear what to do with these guns that were discussed here in the fall of 2014. At the same time, claiming that no arrangement is being changed is justified. At the same time as it is refused to have police weapons in general, it is justified that they are generally armed. That's the part of the discussion that might get the most in the country's cities, i.e. that at the same time as anything is refused, it is justified and that discussion can be settled only if the facts are known. Like what? 9th. Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go! comes in right before then, it really matters how the discussion is discussed. It needs to be based on the right facts, as it were. A senator said that's right. Let's get the facts straight. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u38	A respectable president. I appreciate this helpful discussion. I'd like to, because of the inquiry that is available in the Ministry from whence. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter, inform her that this inquiry has been answered. In this case, it should be balanced between the views that the police have the security equipment they need to maintain and provide the safety of the citizens of the country and the rest of the country, as well as that of others. A saying has made a subject, that rules of conduct do not cause suspicion to the same role they play in important jobs, just to ensure safety of the citizens. That is the balance we are looking for in this discussion. I would like to underscore this point in approaching the discussion from that point of view. I would also like to say that there is reason to say that Icelandic police officers are not armed with firearms in their daily activities, that is not the case with the Icelandic police. However, it is, and it must be seen, that it has to be the assessment of the state police and police officers on how the arms equipment of the police is being performed. The talk that started in the fall, and I watched a distance, went a little out into the open because people were talking about so different things and didn't get along about what was being said. I think there must be some agreement that in order to ensure safety in this country there is a need for certain authority from the police, and it is guaranteed. The question remains: Is it in the right place, or is it fully understood what that authority is?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u39	A respectable president. On April 10, 2013, a group working within the Ministry of finance returned their results and proposals for open data bearing the Opin document and publishing financial information to the state. This was a factor in a project set out to increase access to people and Icelanders of all countries to public economic affairs, which I believe are of utmost importance in increasing government transparency, in increasing maintenance, and in addition to saving considerable work and cost within the administrations to answer questions about the financial issues. This is also part of new times and helps to make good access to public economics. It's getting really small doing this. What the committee did at the time was that it created and finished making licenses for the data openings and the data boxes opened within the Ministry of Justice. Then certain data packages opened as so-called raw data were proposed, so that persons with known knowledge can take the data and work with them and provide clear images of the government's financial information. We thought it best to publish it as raw evidence instead of to the government website, i.e. that the State was not cooking this information. Rather, it was the raw data available so that a third person could use and publish it, e.g. The press. Since this time, further data packages have not been published. I'm a little surprised because the license had been defined and it had been shown that the experiment was initiated in April 2013 was successful and resolved. That's why I want to ask the highest. A minister of what has been done since the first steps took place in April 2013 in order to increase access to public financial information. What's going to happen? A minister sees to do the next? I know it's going on with the Ministry of Internal Affairs that's then working for the board as a whole. That's all right. That work can continue. But what I can't figure out is why that work seems to have stopped the Ministry of finance continuing to mention a package of data and further opening up access to public financial information, because there is really nothing to be involved in continuing the project and only a decision to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u40	Mr. President. In the spring of 2013, the Ministry of Presidency and the Ministry of Economics worked to make information available to the public through state accounting guidelines for official data. The team worked with data from the State's Economic Organization and was determined that the data that had presented to it were left to be published and updated in a new website for the future for open information on the site island.is under the website open.is. The data that was set to publish touched the annual and monthly budget of state funds. They were displayed in raw data format and used for CSV file formats. It is accessible to files where values are separated by commas and can be opened in all major data generation programs. The work of the group ended with the decision to make a suggestion to publish the databases on open ground. Since then, the evidence has been updated regularly by the Ministry, National Files, and the State's finance. They're working on these matters for the first time. The process has slided but has been working to solve them. This is now available on the website from parts and months between 2010 and September 2014. Data will then be updated as time goes on. In addition to this, the group examined several foreign licences for official data and developed a special license for financial data, which is useful in the shape of public permission, as I am about to follow. Since the end of the service group, these cases have continued to be conducted in the Ministry of finance in line with the government's policy of increasing public access to public data, especially information that has to do with the provision of public funds. As ensued, by increasing public access to information, we lay the groundwork for improving the use of public funds and further increasing the awareness and understanding of the tax dollars. An important step toward this direction was taken last summer at the State Department's Financial Office, when the Agency presented a government account for 2013. At the same time, a new tissue, a risot account, was designed to provide a sound access to each year's GDP in the context of open data. The website contains a fragmentation of the government's income and expenditures since 2004. The data can be examined in a number of ways. The website contains a general overview, but it also provides further and further information on the cost of a key. The website allows people to compare government expenses, e.g. by institutions and years, more accessible than ever. It's been quite surprising to me that this has been so quiet. It's quite a revolution in increasing public bioavailability at the State's expense. In fact, to begin with, some media used it considerably to shed light on the development of various government expenditures, but then I feel that as the past went on, this will probably be a continuing benefit to the media and the public to gain data on these matters. Of course, the web can become newer. This site, risotian account, is a step toward the public's easy access to financial information, increase transparency, and trust. Then there is the next step in increasing access to financial data in progress. The Ministry intends to participate in an experimental project on a new international financial foundation that is useful in comparing financial data to the state. Open Knowledge organization, which is involved in opening and increasing access to data, has developed the standard that has already been tested by several countries. The objective of the vacancy is that there is a well- builded, well-founded, legislative, data format that can be used to compare financial data within and between countries, and hopes that most countries will ultimately use the system. Increased public transparency is required to increase the confidence of the public in government, to deepen the national debate, and to make it more meaningful. Information on how governments make public money is an important part of that subject. The Government Declaration states: The government stresses public access to public data. In particular, increasing and improving the availability of information on the provision of public funds is essential. In its spirit, some began working for a new federal staff involved in the Ministry of State and the Ministry of Economics. The group should work until the end of 2015 and include a suggestion for open-label data, a proposal for permission, a map, and an assessment of the key databases to be accessed and to work on a well-developed central port for open data. The aim of this is that the public, business and stakeholders have access to anonymous information from records in the possession of state and community, the information will be available in one portal, and renewable for anyone. [[The president calls.]] The group has set the goal of opening access to 80% of the most important state databases by the end of 2016.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u41	Mr. President. V.E.G. The secretary of finance mentioned various factors that are involved and are being worked on, and it is a real pleasure to hear them. The reality of the situation, as I know him, is to try to win deep and wider changes in bill as the highest budget. A financial minister suggests that access to information is very poor, even to a financial committee. It requires staff, NTSBs, to log in financial numbers manually into an excel document in order to cooperate with it. That's what reality is like like I know it. Let us hope that some of the points that are highest. A financial minister brings improvements in this regard. Then there is something else to mention: In Iceland, there is access to information from the officially bad. [[The president calls.]] It dissociates us in all of our websites at the time of information and the use of the Internet, etc. Only last year, we fell down 14 seats in this regard in a global ◯indexi. [[The president calls.]] The reality is, it's bad, it's getting worse. [[The president calls.]] I hope that...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u42	A respectable president. There are many things to rejoice about when it comes to transpiration in government financial matters, but it must be overemphasized. Tenth. s.. As a result, when it comes to comparing with other countries, we are on the decline. We're doing fine in our efforts. It's only where we seem to be doing well. But it's gotten worse, at least for the last year, according to a report stolen from me what's called I saw it a few days ago. It is worth the effort to keep the point that when it comes to transparency, we need to give in. I would like to suggest that with this discussion, although that is not necessarily a question. A senator to the highest. Minister, because on the risotian account.is, which is an excellent tool if it is gone and very good in many ways, we don't see exactly which companies are running, I don't at least have found it -- I would like a good future mouseique if we tried to completely open up to the government's finances so we could see every dollar. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u43	A respectable president. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson is very familiar with what I ask of each of the highest. Secretary of finance wants to pursue these matters. What was mentioned here falls under the sun. I'm one of those people who thinks we should go as far as possible and try to have the best access to public information and information on the world web. In many ways, this too is a great advantage for the administration. I can see that men can walk to information such as how it is arranged for the minister's so-called drawer money, who government contractors, etc. Thus, the management board is not always in the effort to gather information for the media but, rather, each member of the board can go through the Internet. That's why we're gonna use the Internet, and I think that's where we're supposed to go. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister where he can see that we're making this journey, because I think it's important that we not only know what steps we're going to take next but where we want to end up. Then I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to act. That government account thing was well done. It is also well done at the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the work there, but it is still not supposed to stop the Ministry of finance by continuing to appoint new databases, which can then be published under the permission that is already available on the budget and the Supreme Court. Minister mentioned. I'd like to encourage him to do that. He may be able to dust off the report I mentioned earlier. It directly suggests a number of databases that could be opened and worked at the State Department of the Union, but it does not need to be delayed. [[The president calls.]] I'm the highest. A minister to take the next steps in this regard in a more subtle way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u44	Mr. President. I don't think it's been a bigger step in paying for public access to information on the state budget than when we opened this site in the last year, risis account. By examining the web and all the possibilities it offers, you can see evolution from 2004 back to time on the unique accounting keys of the state, and so on, after a person has subsidized some spending development or individual spending force in individual years, he is given an opportunity to ask further questions. Would it not be desirable to simply examine all the notes? Yeah, I'm sure it would be best if we had this totally open, but it's only been getting in the way of technology. But we've taken a very big step in opening this access. We will continue to examine the possibility of taking a further pack of data to the point of opening access to them, but to my mind it is clear that those paying the bill, the public in this country have the right to get information on what the funds are going on, on the basis of decisions made on individual expenses, and that there are absolutely details about how the money goes. Some of us are much longer than we are in the individual states. For example, in the United States it is likely that people have gone the longest in the world, where there is a standard for paying bills over a certain amount of money on the Internet. In Britain, there is a great incentive for rural society to follow that example and to have walked rather slowly according to the government's will in that country. I feel that we were allowed to do more at the local government level, and it seems to me that by the site rikis account, the government took the initiative in this, but we are to continue the trend and provide people with very detailed information on how tax costs are given. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u45	A respectable president. My question to the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister was submitted to the 2nd. budget 2015 after the visit of a representative from Smokejanestown to the why. The budget board. At that meeting, construction was found to be in the industrial region at Helgavik by silica. A social event at the docks would be necessary, so that service might be performed at a time when it was performed. The State's contribution to this project would have to be about 180 million. K. and that they had to start in 2015. After it became clear that the administrative body did not contribute to construction at the 2nd district at the Hellenistic base. The budget proposed that it be done and that the administrative part take care of 3rd. Funds to make a similar suggestion in case they could not get to accept the offer of the seafront. The administrative part with the highest. The proposal was made by the minister of the mission. It can be said that the question will be answered as to whether the project will be carried out in 2015, since the financial situation of Smokestown is in such a way that nothing will be done there except the administration of the State. V.E.G. In response to a vote by the Minister of Industrial Affairs, when she voted against the State's entry into the docking of the Sacred Sea, said that it had been adopted by the government that at the coming spring council, a prime bill would be proposed to finance building in Helvík, but that certain elements of the bill would have to be agreed with the EFTA Agency. This explanation takes place within the highest two - year job. Governments and all the debates that have taken place within and outside the Council in recent years. Twice during the last term, it was adopted by the government that when a decision was made at Helga, a government fund would develop the structure of the industry in a manner similar to that of the industrial region at Backka. The evidence is in both the Ministry of Industrial Affairs and the Ministry of Economics, but it has taken the current government to work on this case, and to show the will of a project would have been set up to begin support with funding for the docks, but there are many precedents for such support and hardly much misunderstandings there on the road or comments on the part of the surveillance agencies. V.E.G. The Minister of the Interior Church is both the minister of local government and waterfront, and it is likely well aware of the financial situation of the town of Smokejanes and the problems its inhabitants face. It may be reasoned that this problem is due to the poorer decision of a greater part of independence in the town management of Smokenestown in recent years, but it can also be reasoned that the responsibility in the state is being held, particularly after the disposal of the military and that the establishment of the state is required for the establishment of a job structure on Southnes to be justified. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if Rhinestown will receive comparable support as is due to the industrial region of Bakka.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u46	A respectable president. By the law of a Minister, on behalf of a government fund, to finance the construction of timbers for the work of the country Back in the Northern Parliament, No. 41/2013, which specifically discussed construction projects there, was given the authority to provide funds for building infrastructure funds in the country backwaters, including marauders. With an adjustment to the negatives, no. 61/2003, with subsequent No. 119/2014, which like hell. A senator aware of the agreement at the General Assembly today on November 28, was given added authority to provide funds from state funds for building dockers with certain conditions fulfilled. Among the requirements are the transport project, the cost of construction, and the openness of the dockers to public traffic. At this point, the harbor income needs to be properly used, but this means that income stocks are used to the full until the harbor management is stable. Under all conditions, the contribution of the state funds can be made up to 60% of the harbor cost. However, it is the road type to determine whether applications in this area, on the basis of this arrangement, meet the criteria of law and priorities. I'd like to emphasize, more dignified President, that the question directly directed is that I focus primarily on the issues involved. It does not focus on what has been going on in Southnes over the projects that have been there. We both know, I and the scorner, their prehistory, but ask why. A senator comes to me primarily on the possibilities of rejection in this matter, as I understand it. But I can agree with that with what. A senator knows that I am well aware of the narrow position that Rhinestown is in because of financial problems, and recently the Ministry had to agree that an answer would be raised to the town of Rhines to meet the great problem there. Of course, the investments in marauders are heavy on the countryside, we have no doubt about it, and we do not have to argue with them. For financial support due to docks, and the subject under discussion, there are not new ones of the needle, but with the changes in the customs that now went into effect before Christmas, it is a legal channel for these requests, and I believe it is very important. Therefore, the next step of the Vatican harbor town would be to ask for the road construction of Vega on the basis of the changed rejection policy to be evaluated on the basis of granting strength if the harbor authorities have not already done so. But I don't know. Also, to request, that the purpose of the project be met, that the development of the transport program should be implemented in the current review, and hopefully I will have the chance to submit it now in the near future. To all these conditions, it will then determine the priorities of projects based on the budget available to determine if such requests can be met. Then you can draw attention to it, as was the preconceived in fact, and I want to reiterate it here, to the highest degree. In December, the Minister of Industrial Affairs introduced to the government plans to provide the construction bill in Helga in a manner similar to what was done for Bakka. According to the information I have just received from the Department of Employment and Development, there's an agreement between such a bill and I'm expecting it to appear to the members of Congress in the next few weeks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u47	V.E.G. President. I thank the captain very much for opening up this discussion and also thanking the Minister for her last words that there may be a possibility that they will be given funding for building up in Helga. It was very disappointing for Christmas when there was a suggestion. paritaprevir In the case of Oddný Harðardóttir and others, 180 million were rejected, perhaps especially in view of the fact that this may have given the inhabitants of Southnesia and Smokeytown hopes that something would really happen in Helga. As those who know the discussion already know, it has been more important than tears to observe what has happened in the South'snes ever since the first shovel was taken to Helguvík. This is one of the most boring cases ever to take place in the South, this challenge to Helguík, and particularly, in the last term, to the current government, the government was simply saying that the government is building up in Helvík. Doesn't look like it's any better to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u48	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir This is where Oddný Harðardóttir talks about an important part in the South's economic and commercial affairs. So I want to take this opportunity and ask you the highest possible question. Minister if she'll be working on the Senate resolution proposal for OddNew Harðardóttir and others. The members of Parliament that have been distributed here, which includes the administration of a time-separated budget for the promotion of employment and the development of the South's society, where plans for development will be implemented, such as human investments and the need for financial infrastructure, and how best to strengthen factors such as children's interests, education, culture, innovation, employment and social infrastructure in order to promote a better society for the inhabitants of the region. It is important for this area, especially Smokeytown, who is facing very serious economic problems, to take a collective stand on the affairs of the area. I'm asking if a minister will not work on this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u49	A respectable president. I thank you for the leader. paritaprevir For this inquiry and as well as a minister for her answers, it's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter. I want to reiterate that I thank the former government for taking part in building structures with the Backs of Húsavík and the Húsavík. It's only a good thing when governments take part in building communities and businesses. I don't believe it, and that's why I made this Oddný for Christmas that I trusted the words of the Minister of State and of My People in the Government that there would be a bill that would be taken into this matter for the Helguvík area and that nothing would be done between countries, whether it is Húsavík or Chefíkík. [[The president calls.]] Whether it is in the form of a synonym or a bill from whoever it is, I'm just celebrating it and I believe it comes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u50	President wants less of it. The members of Congress are to address other members of the Parliament in full name.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u51	President. In my words here, I wanted to emphasize how I feel about putting down the proposed adjustments, as it were. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir was the first messenger, I think, or smaller part of a budget board, saying that a bill should be submitted this year about exactly the same things. But then the administrative body didn't know how to get money on budget to start this year, so they're expected to put it in budgets. This is not a proper way to treat the State's budget because if they receive a bill approved by it, there is no way that money should be spent or used to build up in Helguvík. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u52	Mr. President. I'm not going to belittle the Southnes'problems, no matter what. But I think there's something here to reveal the problem that men may, in fact, foresee but would not discuss, that in Helga, because we are in comparison with Bakka, Húsavík, started the wrong end. I think there's something to show now that men started in the wrong place. And I say again that I will not minimize the problem of the Southnes. paritaprevir "Oddný G." Harðardóttir talked about. But I would like to see that here I find it unwise to present the inquiry in a way that shows whether Helguvík will receive the same kind of payment that was done on Backka. Perhaps the question should be, Will a person be going to do something in Helgarvík or not?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u53	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for answers and what. Congress members for having a part in this discussion. As noted above, for nearly a decade now Southnes have been seeking financial support from the Holocaust. There are a number of cases where the State was involved in such projects, and the last approved here, both in budgets and in budgets for 2015, 100 million. K. contributes to the change in the transport port of Bildudal to facilitate the development of employment there. V.E.G. A minister spoke of the legal process approved by law, but it is not without reason that these industrial areas are being compared. Among other things, the basis for a series of projects for 2014-2017, adopted here at Congress, is set up in Article 3.2 by permission of presidents: The necessary development of infrastructure through the industrial region of Bakka at Húsavík In the b-mer: Achieving industrial activities in the Helgi region will be developed by the government in cooperation with local rural areas supporting further development of infrastructure in a comparable way. On the other hand, it won't hurt. It won't hurt. The minister of local government and customs is very well aware of how things are. It refers to a legal course for rejection but also to the fact that industrial minister is making special laws for the area. So I want to ask the highest. Minister if it will promote itself in the Ministry and in the government that this matter of interest in the region will be put in place and in haste treatments, as it has been observed here to wait for assistance for the harbor at least A decade.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u54	V.E.G. President. I also make sure that I do. A senator was very fighting for it when she sat on the throne of the minister of finance during her last term. [[Up front.]] This case is not new, let's get it straight. For decades, there have been job construction on Smokejanes, many say for decades, and people have tried to install energy - efficient industry in the city of Rhines, and in its vicinity, and it has not least been delayed on the basis of problems with energy sources that have remained in the past few years. You can't just look at this government in it. I'd like to make it clear, Mr. Honorable President, that there wasn't a very great will for that in the past government, it wasn't a very great will for that. [[Up front.]] I just think it's okay for a man to come out here and discuss it. [[Up front.]] The other is another matter, and I'd like to make it clear that ESAs have been made out of the docks on backwaters. That means in the bill as the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs is preparing a budget to take into account the views involved. We are not going to land on such a project that ESAs will not meet the challenge. (See Minister of the Interior, in the January 27, issue of Awake!) 14:47.] Surely all of us agree on this. That's why I think it's right to wait for the bill to be the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs is working on it. A respectable president. I have to say that some of the questions asked here are questions that would be much more likely to be directed to the highest level. Prime Minister, but I'm the Minister of the Interior. The thing about us is the rejection, and I've explained that it has to be a legal process. I have full faith that the local authorities will take advantage of it, and then they must be careful that the conditions that must be met will be met.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u55	A respectable president. I want to go straight to the highest. The local minister of inquiry, which has been answered in some respects, but not altogether during the discussion earlier, on police arms. My request is to keep the logic of the police's arms secret, who they are, and whether it is possible to keep the secret. I reiterate what I mentioned before, it is natural and logical that the evaluation of police equipment and equipment is in the hands of the police, but the revelation of these regulations and decisions to the extent of the use of firearms in the daily law enforcement work is a political decision that we would normally discuss. While that argument has been presented at the same time by a court order on police arms control that it was best kept secret, it is easy for me to argue that the secret is a very two-edged sword. I just want to put men in the following position: A criminal who sees an inexplicable police car is much more likely to resort to severe police action, to gunfighters at the scene, if he suspects that in the police car, there are usually firearms. It is easy to assume that the easy access of police officers in such a way that firearms in daily surveillance can fuel the harsh response of criminals and thus add to their faces both for police and for the general public. Therefore, it can be concluded that it is logical based on the public interest that most of the equipment is being informed. I noticed earlier. A minister told of an example from other countries that the main aspects of these matters were generally revealed, and I believe that this could be a reasonable way. Of course, we do not want to undermine the possibility of law and order by police, and therefore we may want to respond well and, as a result, some factors may need to be secretly dependent on, but the general secrecy in this regard is knowing that my own harm and can simply raise uncertainty between the public and the criminal alike about what is to be expected when law enforcement is being carried out. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u56	V.E.G. President. Thank you for this inquiry. In a sense, we talked about it a little earlier, but I still think there's a reason to answer the inquiry full feet here and will. Rules on the use of force by policemen and treatment and the use of power tools and weapons were set up by the Minister of Justice on February 22, 1999, by the former Minister of Justice, Þorsteinn Pálsson. At the same time, the rules on how to handle and use firearms were removed from 1987 and the rules for the use of bats set up in 1940 as well as the testimony of the Ministry of Justice (SEC) for the use of spray weapons by the police. Since 1999 the rules have been free from public information rights with reference to information legislation and a ruling there. Among other things, it was. Based on the grounds that the rules contain information about law enforcement, which describes police procedures when serious law enforcement cases arise where power needs to be used. Therefore, the publication of the rules may be useful to those who intend to commit serious crimes and thereby reduce the power of police action. Hv. One inquirer asks whether it can be considered that unless the information on the content of the rules and the final assessment of the rules will be made, the safety of the citizens should be considered in particular. After I took over the office of the Minister of Internal Affairs in December of that year. I wished for the state police director's attitude to the publication of these regulations on police arms in the interests of increasing transparency in these matters. The Marshal responded with no objection to the rules that are now valid, as well as to the rules given by the Justice Minister on February 22, 1999, with the authority given to the appropriate regulations of arms law published in Government News. At the same time, I requested the governor to investigate the attitude of the presidents of the National Association of Police Officers and Police Department for the publication of the rules. The conclusion of that discussion lay just before the weekend. After this discussion, I have been informed by the Marshal of the state that his position was and that the rules may be published in public. The police union has agreed with this as well as with police officials. The same attitude has also been expressed in the Country Guard. According to a U.S. Marshal, if the rules should be updated, they may have 16 years from their version, and this may be because they are old enough to look at the fact that when given the rules, they were not expected to be published. This is the viewpoint that matters, and I need to consider the final assessment of what is being taken into account. This can be said to be true regardless of how the following issue will be handled regarding new rules, etc. This is a difficult matter, and since the rules were made by the Minister of Justice, I do not want to make a final decision on their possible release without having assured myself that this will not affect the safety of the citizens as well as what I think, in view of the age of rules, the need to look closely at their contents and after experiences give out new rules on the basis of current views.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u57	A respectable president. I've only got two short notes. V.E.G. The secretary of the state read from the decision on May 5, 2014, and is here the part that I thought was rather amazing, by the permission of a president: ▪ If public access to the rules, it may be useful to those who intend to commit serious crimes and reduce the subjugation of the police. I've always found this very strange because the decision seems to be based on some kind of vague threat to something. I think it's kind of broken. If we think about this from a general law of penalties, I wondered what men were doing in that context. That's another comment. The other's about it. The apocalyptic mentioned guns in cars. I don't know that we've talked about the fact that police carrying guns on their own, on their person, but there was a lot of talk about having guns in their cars, and it was a big deal justified, rejected, yet justified, and mentioned that there were often guns in cars in the country. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to mention specifically that in order to discuss this material, we need access to the Code 19, par. if I'm supposed to be specific.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u58	President. I welcome what happened at the highest. Minister, it seems that it was one of her first jobs to check whether these rules should be revised. I also rejoice that the principal offices on which this would affect me are positive about that, too. It is understandable that in view of the years since they were put, some adjustments may be needed. I'd like to ask the secretary if she - yes, she's naturally thinking about it, but then I urge the minister to speed up the work so as to make them available in the Ministry that if she finds out they're not, they'll be expedient.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u59	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister's reply, and he rejoices that she immediately went to explore the possibility of the official publication of these regulations. Because this decision quoted a ruling of access to the Regulation is firm my conviction that it is for the benefit of law enforcement and for the safety of police and citizens that the most abundant levels are on board in these materials, and as a minimum of uncertainty and least of gray areas. I have a clear understanding of what it is. Minister after trace, may be in the format they are now not suitable for publication, and something may have to be fixed before it is done. I appreciate the good will that I read from a language. A minister to create them in such a way that they will be officially published, and I think it was a great success step for law enforcement, and to increase our confidence in the law enforcement of the country. This fall of events with the guns did not benefit and created many forms of uncertainty and insecurity. You're absolutely right. A minister, earlier today, traced the debate throughout the world to unnecessary police arms in connection with that matter. I believe that targeted laws and the publication of these laws would be of great benefit to us and could help to reassergize the fundamental principles of law enforcement in this respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u60	V.E.G. President. I have nothing to add beyond what I've already said. This case is now for the Ministry investigation on the basis I've described. The comments that have come from members of Congress are part of what I am evaluating about this decision, and I think everyone understands that when rules that were not composed for publication, people need to be particularly careful about how to handle them. At the same time, it is also my opinion that having things in a way that allows them to raise suspicions about the important work that the law in the country does. In this regard it is important that the institutions involved in this matter also share that view. There's something that I think is important to us in the future when we take the next steps on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u61	A respectable president. A report in the business magazine of July 24 last July shows that police in the capital area intend to buy new purchases to use police work. The report and the interview do not fully explain how the police notice that the relief will be done by the authorities; nor does it make sense whether there are special rules as a home or a ban on the country. Drones can be useful to many things, both for good and for bad. It is also possible to use traffic control, drug culture, for use in searching for heat cameras, for population control, for an overview of crime and traffic accidents, and, above all, for the most part, for reconnaisssance, i.e. to monitor certain individuals or groups of people. It is important before the police use these devices to determine the intended use of these devices. The use of the product should be taken into account by the personal protection criteria and the use of any rules. Sadly, the individual's rights to the police are often somewhat vague. Even if the law may be clear, the public may be able to identify the boundaries of their privacy and the extent to which the police can go on permanence. Because of the police authority in general and limited surveillance of her activities, news of the proposed purchases are therefore causing a measure of anxiety. That's why I want to ask the highest. The Minister of the Interior State, whether the police have made purchases or had such purchases, whether the police had any other relief plan, or whether they are supposed to receive such items as gifts or loans. Also, I would like to ask: A police minister has a legal authority to buy and use drags? How does a minister see that the police's shrapnel comes from day to day and thinks it's the best. Minister, do you have to set specific rules about the use of the police on the log? If so, what would especially be the subject of such rules?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u62	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator of this inquiry of four teams. - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Has the police established such purchases or provided for such a purchase? Has there been a measure of withdrawal for the police? Is it intended for her to borrow or to borrow such equipment? Having received information from the governor's office, the answer to this inquiry is: The police have not obtained any money, nor do they consider such a purchase. There is no other way in which the police have made their way back. Police do not intend to accept such equipment for a gift or loan. ▪2. Do police ministers have legal rights to purchase and use drags? Our answer is that there are no special sources for the police on purchases or uses, and such sources have not been needed, as shown by the answer I gave to a question of no. 1st Therefore, regarding the possible use of police, there would be a general rule regarding the use of inhuman aircraft. Earth's unmanned aeroplanes generally hold the same rules as those of manned airships, as shown by air travel laws, No. 60/1998. According to that law, air travel is defined as any device that can remain on the fly as a result of air activity, other than an air buffer effect at the surface of the earth, as per 1 mg. 2.g. The law. ◯3. How does a minister see that the police's shrapnel comes from day to day? In this regard, I have to return to the first question, since there is no plans for buying a shrink and there is no question as to why he should be used in the way that the question is asked at this point. ◯4. Does Ministers think there must be special rules about the use of police on the carpet? If so, what would especially be the subject of such rules? The answer is that if the police are concerned with the use of forced police work, they will be considered. V.E.G. President. I'd like to mention it, and I don't think my memory is betraying me, that the purchase was taken by the citizens of this country to give for the saving work. It was because of events in the summer when people were being searched for. At that time, funds were gathered to buy short distances to make good use of life - saving work. I think it'll be very interesting to see how the device will be used. I especially noticed this collection and the goals that people wanted to achieve with it. We live in Iceland, for example, that circumstances in many countries are often very difficult to find, rescue, and rescue workers pose a real threat to the important work they do. I suppose, in fulfillment of this inquiry, we will see with them how important such equipment can be when we handle such difficult tasks as finding people and saving them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u63	Mr. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for suing issues during the council. He aims his eyes at the police property of the logistice, and now he has the highest power. A minister informs us that such an estate is not there and is not intended. In this regard, I would like to encourage it, and I'm also going to join us in talking about reduced points in the relationship that human rights organization in many parts of the world have opposed the use of shrinks in warfare where manless efforts are being used to kill citizens. I'd also like to draw attention to one of the times when the outside protests were being made when the European Union's involvement was to be restored, and there's a zoom above the East, and it's on camera. Although we live in a community where we need to be aware that we are really under constant supervision, it is natural that we know, with unmanned air missions as well as our designer, who are going there, and what is the purpose of our journey. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u64	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The minister of the inside is eager to know the answer that was very clear, which is no worse with the fact that, in a material sense, it helps a little of the anxiety that I had. I understood that a police officer planned to buy a drag, but this is where information came in contrary to that. I'm happy for the time being, but I think it's important that, for a long time, we think about the question better because, like other technological advances, they're useful both for good and for bad. I often say about the Internet and computers that make everything easier, including violations of human rights. It is very important that we realize that in time the police will use the technology, it must happen sometime that the police will start using shrinking or similar technology. Then we may have thought about how we will conduct surveillance carried out by unmanned devices. But first, answers to the highest. I have no more to add to this, but thank you very much for your good and clear answers. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Council members of the United States regularly be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u65	A respectable president. During recent losses, the need for independent and independent police surveillance has been highlighted. The causes of this discussion are complex and include tyranny during arrests, misuse of police databases, execution of shutters, legitimate search for person, and so on. Over a year ago, the U.S. Marshal of the I.A. wrote letters indicating improvement when it comes to police work. An agent points out the importance of being able to examine cases where citizens have suffered serious physical or property damage. Then there are the offenses that citizens can pronounce complaints because of police conduct without necessarily a criminal offense. An internal secretary's reply last summer tells us that a group will be appointed to review these matters. So I want to ask the highest. Minister of state when the results of that group are to be expected. My second question to the highest. The Minister of the Interior to the independence of the surveillance. There is a big point in handling matters relating to the complaint of police work and police practices being investigated by an independent person who is not involved with the police. It is necessary for the general public to have a neutral case that will bring a righteous outcome. In accordance with current procedures, charges should be directed on the alleged criminal conduct of policemen to the State Attorney, who conducts their investigation. On the other hand, the U.S. attorney general's office is in the process of turning to the police and hiding the investigation of police officers in another district other than the case of the defendant and having the responsibility to care for the investigation or part of the investigation. As a result, there will always be police officers who are investigating the alleged violations of their colleagues. Such an arrangement inevitably raises doubts about objectiveity in the implementation of the studies. More often than not from individuals whom the police have had to interfere, and some of these people have repeatedly been involved in police history. This may lead to a lack of truthfulness in the study. I'm sure the Guðmundurs and the Geirgerian languages are the most famous example of this. So I want to ask the highest. Minister of the I.R. whether internal surveillance should be planned or if there is a decision to proceed independently without the law enforcement authorities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u66	V.E.G. President. We've got a question of police operations here. The question is basically in two teams. - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. When can you expect the results of a group of workers to consider how more intensive police practices would be being observed? The Ministry of Internal Affairs has set up the labor force. A senator asks about. Is the staff aimed at dealing with the treatment of complaints and lawsuits against the police and making a proposal to reform, further to work on opening, accessible and efficient systems involved in receiving and dispensing complaints from the citizens for police work, following the state prosecutor's comments on police work, and after police activities. The staff owns the state judge Ragnheiður Harðardóttir, who is also chairman of the task force, Sigurður Professor Tómas Magnússon, Professor Margrét Steinarsdóttir, director of the Iceland's Human Rights Office, Dined Daði Attorney Kristjánsson and attorney Páll Heiðar Halldórsson. The proposals of the work group are expected to be in the middle of 2015. The task force is aimed at taking into account the existing bill on the future commission of the prosecution and the establishment of the current district attorney's office, who is actually waiting for 1st. I haven't yet recommended it, but I hope to do it in the first place. The bill suggests that the local district attorney's new office be included in the investigation of these cases, which report a complaint against the police officer and for the proposed criminal offense in the conduct of the State Attorney General, according to Article 35. Police law. Police law. A senator mentioned. According to the bill, the district attorney will have police in his service on these projects. The decisions made by the local district attorney on delinquency are expected to be indictable to a State prosecutor, which includes a very important legal step from the current procedure. As I said, these suggestions are not available and will not be available until the middle of the year, and then we will be able to understand the ideas found there. 2. ▪ Is internal surveillance expected, or is the aim for the surveillance to be totally independent of law enforcement authorities? That is to answer, and that is the word I have already spoken that the evidence is not available and can't be explained, I don't know what they will be at this point of the case. But the task force has made it a goal to secure justice in the country and to strengthen the security of its citizens. It is the primary objective of the staff to look into their jobs and that the police have general confidence and that the police have a clear and effective surveillance of the police work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u67	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The answer, which was basically clear, has to be brought back to the issue that it is important that this surveillance be independent and independent. Internal Affairs alone always depends on our small country that there is a link between people, and I'm not talking about if there's a working officer standing by the tests himself, of course, under the prefect of the district attorney. I believe this is a key element of an independent and independent institution, i.e. that police are not investigating other policemen but some institution that generally does not work with the police in upholding the laws and regulations of the country, but ensures that police are in harmony with established regulations and not misuse their authority. Somehow in Iceland, perhaps because of the small size of the country, the government, or the government in general, is rather trusting. People in general trust themselves well. Of course, it is to be expected in a system composed by people, because people in general trust themselves well, they generally do not think of themselves as in any way suspicious. Likewise, if you work with people for a long time, it will always be harder and harder to make decisions or to criticize other people's jobs that you may be viewing as some sort of acquaintance or friend. And this has a particularly powerful effect on Iceland, I claim. Therefore, it is especially important that we go beyond other countries in ensuring the independence of such an institution as a police investigation and that this institution would be what is possible independent of the police department itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u68	V.E.G. President. Of course, it's just a matter of time before. Similarly, in many areas we are dealing with the fact that we do not live in that land and our society is small, we need to be careful that the institutions here are strong and capable of carrying out the vital tasks entrusted to them. It's hard to go further in reply to the senator's inquiries than I have already submitted in my previous answer. However, I would like to state that in the currently held bill for the council, for the district attorney, there are some organizational changes proposed to the conduct of the prosecution in the country. It affects this matter. Then I want to reiterate what I said before and, of course, is of utmost importance that the cornerstone of the work that the above - mentioned team is now going to take care of the national security and security of the citizens as well as the other cornerstone is, let's say, the police have general confidence in the country. This, of course, is a key to its work and that the staff value trust in the work they handle at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u69	A respectable president. I've asked the highest. Education minister on how people over 25 years of age do not have access to a book study in high school, as it is now based on changes made in a budget bill in the fall. I'd like to include him in on whether the Ministry investigated the financial impact of an outdoor student over 25 years of age at individual school costs, but it is common to register in high school at 13,000 years of age. During the term "grad school fee " in a college bridge, at least in one school, 225,000 bucks. The fact is that those who have taken advantage of high school, book studies, and are over 25 years of age are people who do not have much to do with their hands. Women are very prominent in that group, and it is difficult to imagine that women with little school schooling are in a position to pay the school fees required for a college course. So I wanted to ask, did the Ministry have any analysis of the effect this change would have on the groups that applied it? In recent years, some 200 people, over 25 years of age, have made their way through a student's study with hard work and a complete book study. Has the Ministry made any analysis of that group? What will the Ministry do? It is obvious to me that this needs to be met in some way, by increasing scholarships, or by other means paying off the way to higher education if it is not to be done badly, and if this is not to result in an increase in discrimination and loss of equality for study. In addition, if these people are to go to the ever - increasing educational centers and private schools, it is not enough that they will likely have to pay much more for that service; nor is there any financial means that the Ministry has taken steps to meet the increased costs of the ever - increasing educational centres and private schools of welcoming these people. That's why I'd like to ask a minister about this. Especially do I bear in mind that the group that has this strategy, which includes high school teachers who have studied with this group, is usually among those who do not have much in the hands, among which very prominent women with little schooling and usually have a low salary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this inquiry we've already discussed in the conference hall the matter of the past. I've got to start by correcting a problem. A senator and his expressions in the inquiry. It's a little worse. A senator has now left the hall. But it is wrong that 25 years of age and older were excluded from book studies in high school, such as at school. The senator said in his inquiry. That's an entirely wrong understanding of what's being discussed here. There is no such rule, and it is a mistake to argue that 25 years of age and older do not have access to books in high school. The following and many attempts have been made to explain that when it comes to typing into high school, there is a basic principle on taking students into school with changes made in it in 2012 where students have their priorities set. The underlying factors have already been made so that each student costs an average dollar, an average of nearly 1.1 billion. K. It is not a high number when compared with the cost of basic school, but it was much higher per student than it was two or three years ago. After that, high school students take in a set order as required by the regulations. Each time, therefore, a schoolmaster's assessment is how far down the list of priorities the school principal wants to go. In other words, if in some cases a schoolmaster wants to study a book study that is 25 years of age and older, there is room for that. [[For example: Are they paid?]] It's here to ask if they're paying for it. Yes, this is actually done because it was set up so that the funds that were lost to the alleged order at any given moment. The senator talked about, was left in the high school system. We knew that during the past year, the number of students was greatly higher than the intended amount; hundreds of students did not enter high school but were supposed to come. We assumed that the same thing would happen this year. So we left the money in the schools for the students, so if they don't go to school, there's still money available for them. This makes it possible for the schoolmaster to receive students in book studies that can be 25 years of age and older if they appreciate it so that they can afford it. That's the way it is, Mr. Honorable President. If so, I would point out that the number of people we watch who may have dropped out of school, but we took away money for them, is very similar to the number we are talking about when we are 25 years old. I know that if anything happens. A senator's going to sit over it, and he'll see it. If he wants the evidence, I can just hand it over to him so he can understand them. So there is a fundamental problem in this situation. A senator has been very active in the discussion. I understand that because it can be political practical, but it's a little wrong. After that, funds are set up for all students who are 25 years of age and older. It should then be considered that in recent years we have developed an ongoing education system, an adult education that in itself is no different from what we know in other countries. When we look at the northern countries, it is in most places that students who are now 24, 25 years of age and older are not in high school, they go to adult education, as there are fully educational evidence to that effect. The available data should not be surprising; the majority of the students who are 20 years of age and older in high school are cut off. Why would that be, noble President? This is because the school, the study material, the teaching methods are directed to people in the age of 16◯20. By building up a system, such as we have done in recent years, which is for adults who want to pursue education, we can take into account, for example, work experience and examine it. We can better adapt our study to the needs of those in a job market, which we have been doing in recent years. What lies ahead is making good use of the system in recent years that has already been set up for a considerable amount of money. In a few years, we have taken 600 million to heart. K. Up to 1.4 billion into that system. At the same time that high school funds were reduced by 2 billion, the contribution to the ongoing education centres was increased by 600 million. K. into 1.4 billion. [[The president calls.]] So we've put a substantial amount of money into the system. What I'm suggesting here is that we use it and break away from the system that hasn't worked well enough, especially those over 25 years of age because we see that it's the biggest exit. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u71	A respectable president. V.E.G. At the beginning of his speech, the minister of the United States gave a witness. paritaprevir PállÁrniÁrnason What questions might we ask ourselves? A minister would be doing and thus falsely claimed that the policy of this government was to try to close higher schools for 25 years and more. At the end of the month, a minister went over to see that it was best for that group to be elsewhere, and he went over it on a long list. [[Up front.]] A respectable president. There is a set of priorities in life, and when you cut down about a thousand students in high school and thus make it difficult to see how many people are allowed to go to high school, that makes it less difficult for those who are older and at the end of their priorities. It's bound to have that effect. V.E.G. One minister said that it was his policy that those who were older will learn elsewhere from high school. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. What has a what? paritaprevir Does Páll's Árnason years misunderstand? Nothing. It's the highest-level policy. A minister and the system he directs the senior students into costs far more than high school. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u72	Mr. President. At the welfare shelter at 76rd. The Constitution shows that all people should be guaranteed in the legal right to general education and education. Access to university is not limited, and everyone has to pay the same price when applying for it. Everyone's sitting at the same table about elementary school. You don't sit at the same table with high school, and you have the highest level. A minister gives reasons why it is and why this route has gone. My question is, Is it still true to all, according to the Constitution, for the proper education and instruction? Is equal also within that framework independent of the economy and age, etc.? Can those over 25 years of age pursue education at the same cost as those under 25 years of age? Of course, it may be that people over 25 years of age are in a difficult position, such as poor trap that they cannot get out of and that they cannot pursue this education so that they can continue to improve their lives. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u73	A respectable president. I have to say, I don't have a reputation for the Dogcrow and the vocabulary as high as I can say. A minister thinks he's a seafaring to set up a table for us. I'm asking him about the economic consequences of a very sensitive group of actions he's taking, and he refuses to recognize it and brings some ridiculous loopholes that are not being prevented from accessing books in the high schools for people over 25 years of age. So all idiots are but the highest. Minister? Is it the school master's club that doesn't understand what he's doing? Is it aased high school teacher who doesn't understand what he's doing? Is the headmaster of the High School of the Year's Day so foolish, therefore, is he just completely mistaken for the Minister when he does not receive more students over 25 years of age? Is it that Snæfells High School is just full of idiots? This kind of compromise isn't acceptable. V.E.G. At the end of his speech, a minister acknowledged that he was pursuing a policy that determined that these people, over 25 years of age, were not in general in high school. I'm asking him about the economic consequences of the policy in which people are seen in far more expensive resources. And I insist he's standing here explaining it. This has obvious economic consequences for the people who have taken advantage of this process and I'm e-mailed from high school teachers and from high school champions who explain this position to me. How sad it is to hear the minister be on this tragic schedule in his language! I'd like to explain how the Ministry finds out that if it's over 25 years of age, it would have no effect on equality for learning to exploit people on much more expensive resources and to close them to high school. They're doing it by not paying with these people. And it may well be at the top. Ministers try to beat their heads to the stone and turn off when asked good questions, but that's his problem. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, everyone in the high school system understands this matter in ways other than the highest. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u74	A respectable president. I can't help it with the imbalance. A member of the council is involved, but this might help him if he has a problem. A senator now wanted to listen because he called for an explanation. Last year there were 692 students in high school who were expected to be under budget. In the year we were making budgets, we assumed that this trend could continue, so we assumed that the next year, there would be a decrease in about 500 students. Still, we left the funds that they received from them in the high schools. All right. The number of them that were. A senator is 25 years of age and older, and there are 500 students. There's another group. But because the money that goes with these students is in there and we don't yet know how big a group will come up with the group we expected to fall out of, for example. Improved job conditions, etc., as happened last year, there is an average improvement in each student now much higher than there was in the number of students, e.g. About three years ago, right? A senator was the highest. Secretary of the government. This means that the scholarship of the school champions to make a decision to take 25 years of age and older to book school is in place, much more than usual. A senator is aware, apparently. That's what a respectable president means, that the statement and the opinion why. A senator who has been excluded and is ill and has rules that 25 - year - old students must not enter high school describes a certain misunderstanding. I can't help it, though. A senator misunderstands the discussion. I have had no comment on why it is, but I noticed it first when the dog. A senator expressed himself on this matter that he had not prepared better than that, so he felt that all of this was appropriate, for example. The study, I did it. A respectable president. We're building up a system and we've been doing it in recent years, so that we might better worry about students older than those in high school so that we can get better results. [[The president calls.]] There we look to our neighboring nations, the northern nations, who have had better results than we have in this regard. That's what's being done, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u75	A respectable president. I'd like to, regarding the inquiry presented here, raise the issue here at the outset that it was submitted before any changes were made to the final budget with a substantial addition of funds to the University of Iceland. In that sense, it would have been a matter of nature to withdraw or change it. On the other hand, I would like to celebrate the adjustment made at 3rd. budgets, when added and increased, and paid with more students. When the inquiry was made, the university had to face up to choosing and refuse which students would need to abstain from school because they were simply too many in comparison with what they would pay for. In the rough, if I recall correctly, the change did not fully cover the space, but to the most extent. With that explanation, I just wanted to ask the highest. Minister to how he values the situation now. Will the university take action because of insufficient funds? Or does he think that school is now enabled to live up to the teaching of those who are reaching out for school?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u76	A respectable president. That's exactly what it said in asking why. A senator I thank you for this, that making donations to the University of Iceland and the University of Reykjavík was greatly added because of the problem. A senator described that there were more students, actually considerably more, in these schools than was paid for. Iceland's university had identified this problem, and as the University of Reykjavík had to do it, it had to be taken care of and it was done by a special operation and a special fund that was exactly aimed at this. Of course, there were discussions about the status of other schools in this regard and balance, and it is certainly always difficult to do so, but it could clearly be concluded that there is no longer a single condition that has taken place in the past few years that there are more students in certain schools than there are paid to live. Hv. A senator asked if it was my opinion that these schools could enjoy pleasure or run on these grounds. The answer is, as is the case often when such big questions occur, yes and no. This operation helps them to do their business. It makes it easier for these schools to do their job. Icelandic universities and university systems are subsidized, that's the situation. In fact, when we look at an international context and, for example, compares with OECD countries, we see that there's a government contribution, when you see it as a percentage of national product or as a percentage of state expenditures, it's on a nice pair with the average OECD countries. What is missing there are private contributions, companies and others into the university system that are higher in most other OECD countries than in us. So we'll be lower when we add this up. On the other hand, when compared with the North countries, we have Icelanders a considerable amount of time left, especially with regard to the state's advancement. It would have to be higher. This is before and during the past year, the government issued a declaration that had to do research in the country where large amounts of money were added to the Research Fund and Technical Development Fund, a substantial amount of money on these funds, to support the activities that again strengthen university operations. At the same time, it is a declaration that there will continue to be an increase in these financial contributions in the near future in order for Iceland to reach the average, international, and comparison, which we believe is necessary for our university system to reach in terms of financing. At the same time, many other questions about our university system come to mind. It is also a fact, a respectable president, to remember that the average age of those who complete the BA or BS test in Iceland is one of the highest if not the tallest person in OECD. The average age is just over 30 years. Average age of new registration to school, i.e. for the first time in college, there is 26 years in Iceland, near the number of graduates from the BA or BS on average within the OECD. This must be for us to think about because as people progress earlier in life, the more the economic yield of that education becomes. There are some indications, for example, that when we look at our high school, there is something wrong with us when we realize that in Icelandic high school, school careers are down from all the OECD countries and some of the most important exits. So it's obvious, whether it's high school or college, that there's something in our system that makes this situation exist. Just as we were discussing earlier, about the position of the seniors in high school, it is best to remember, when it comes to life income people, that it is possible to go, if you are looking for the right to enter the university, faster through the way we have been shaped in recent years, which is not through the high school system, but through the university mystery, etc., which makes it a loss of income by being in school and not by being less work. It may be important for people to take an inexpensive and faster course designed for individuals. The reason why I mention this in connection with the university is that we need to consider this and take good care of how we guarantee that our university systems will achieve at least as good and generally produce better results than those in the countries around us. We need it, that nation, and it hasn't worked out very well for us. It's perfectly obvious. This suggests a number of numbers. It's not at the university to blame it. It's the way we finance the system and how we've built the system itself. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u77	A respectable president. It was well done by this government to place extra money in the university on the final payment of funds. It would have been quite a blow for college, for example, for Iceland's University, if the National University had suddenly faced a decision for himself as to how to study. That was a good job, and thanks to it. What I'd like to say is that I'm always a little worried about it when we're talking about college that I sometimes think we'relittleing the group that slows him through, i.e. the one - and - one group that works toward a degree of slower pace than any students who may be in the full - time ministry. I feel very important when we look to a university career that we take into account this group, who is trying to pursue increased education along their jobs or other activities. [[The president calls.]] Let us make no less of their contribution to society than the people who take it in one bait.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u78	A respectable president. I'd like to answer at the end of some of the things presented in the grandest case. Minister. He speaks extensively of the fact that people later complete college in life as a negative part of Icelandic education. This, of course, has to do with his earlier attitude, his desire to turn high school into a young school, and although he does not want to recognize it, his efforts to prevent schools from getting paid for people over 25 years of age at school. In itself, I want to question the end of the minister in this regard. I'd like us to take into consideration the open discussion at the General Whether it's our own aim to change our high school system and school career in a way that makes us a special trajectory to have very young graduates with no experience in working out schools and colleges. Professor Gestur Guðmundsson has written on the learned article that the Icelandic route was completely underestimated and undecided in this context. The Icelandic route reveals that people get experience from a job market and then go to higher education. There is no need to be a worse way than a youth's idea. Secretary of education. And that is a way of making many opportunities for low - quality people to raise money for study, in order to take the study at a pace convenient for them. As a result, I want to use this opportunity to pray to the highest degree. A minister to pause only in his desire to change the high school system and the university system into a youth - school system and to consider the social value that may be in the system where people are very flexible and varied in schools, schools, and colleges. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u79	A respectable president. Indeed, I would like to have a discussion about this very thing, and if so, I would direct it to a respectable president to examine it. What we Icelanders have to face is this: We know, and this, as well as everyone, knows that a person's income grows on average, and generally as their education is higher, and they can use it better. In the past, what we do in life usually means more life's income. The more time we make use of our lives, the later we make use of the education. It's easy to see. Of course, a person who finishes his 50's and is in a job market until 67 years of age will enjoy a shorter education than the one who graduated from education 25 years of age. It's quite obvious, more dignified president. We must wonder, Icelanders, with all our vast resources, how is it possible that we have lower average income than many nations that have so much less resources to play than we do. One of the reasons is our education system. You have to face up to e.g. High school in Iceland is the low learning development and slow down from all the OECD countries and most of the desert. Is it something that says it's a good system? Is it not one of the factors that makes our country our own or our community less productive? When it comes to being well - equipped, you must not minimize it, because that is what you have between your hands to buy medicines, to provide aging services, etc. A respectable president. It is important that in the years to come, the proportion of people requiring aging services will decrease. Then the people who will then be at work will be better educated, more productive than we who are at work now because otherwise they will reduce the amount of services we can perform. That is why we strive to make the most of our education, to be the most effective in our country, and then we need to make the most of our time. I strongly disagree with that opinion, and I really think it's a very strange thing to think that it's better for people to do this last time, but no one's saying that they should shut down all the possibilities for people. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They're supposed to build ways of doing this, but they're going to try to push it so we can do it as soon as possible, because it's best for an Icelandic country. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u80	A respectable president. I would like to draw attention to a language that I feel is not too much discussed in a Senate Hall. At least I haven't had a lot of discussions here in the conference hall, although she was able to do so in society. It's about the order of ambassadors and how ambassadors are appointed in Iceland. I've asked you a question to the highest level. Special Minister of Three Teams: 1st What professional demands are fundamental to the order of ambassadors? 2. How does such an order fit professional judgement? 3. How's the procedure with the ambassador's order? It's not for a reason I'm asking. I think it's the way an ambassador's order is done in Iceland. We are something unusual, Icelanders, in these matters compared with other northern nations. It is well mentioned in two articles that Svala Guðmundsdóttir, a human-rich lecturer in the college business department, wrote recently how Icelands are completely on a boat compared to the northern countries in these matters. In Denmark, Finland, and Norway, these positions are advertised within the foreign service, and we take a certain professional process that is known to be true, a particular career in the foreign service, and it is very common to know that former politicians are appointed ambassadors. It seems to be that way, at least When you look at the law and look at experience, it's a minister who almost has absolute authority over who is appointed ambassador. In recent years, for example, eight political leaders have been appointed ambassadors. This is unusual. They usually stay short of the foreign service. They take the position abroad and leave the foreign service after they come home. The principle of government official positions or positions is that it is advertised. It's legal. However, ambassadors are abdicating the obligation to advertising. I'd say that since they're past the obligation for advertising, the legislature of the lawgiver's obligation to explain why. It's strange to me that in the laws on foreign services where there's a nominee for the advertisements, there are no professional requirements or any professional process published on how to hire ambassadors. I have here in my iPad an advertisement published on the Norwegian State Department's website for ambassador's position in Iceland. There are some eight professional requirements for skills and the other, six conditions for personal qualities, seven points for the work, and so on. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. Foreign Minister: How is the order of ambassadors being carried out in this country and may change that process? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u81	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the inquiry that offers an opportunity to review the good people who are involved in our daily work in Iceland, which is available to us in many parts of the world. An ambassador's order depends on the personnel law and on the foreign service laws. The formal requirements for an office party are listed in Article 6. Personnel are the same and are relevant to officials in general, such as conditions of age, civil rights, financial guardianship, etc. In addition to legal conditions, the European Environment Agency is regarded as having any room to limit the qualities and qualifications desired in a office of office. In view of the order of ambassadors of the Icelandic Foreign Service, whether over the past few years or over a longer period, it is clear that the general principle is that ambassadors need to have a scientific knowledge of international and political, international, international, and international business practices. Ambassadors need a lot of communication and good language skills, and they have the ability to appear before Iceland at the highest level and for the most unlikely reasons, while also possessing the ability and will to perform all the work of big and small, which is, in most cases, extremely small. The Icelandic ambassador must be prepared to represent the country among foreign heads, ministers, senators, high officials, business prominents, arts, sports, and so forth. This same ambassador then needs to be ready to do all the work in a small emissary, as I said earlier, and to assist Icelanders in a number of problems every day in all parts of the world. The ambassador must have a strong and close connection with the local community in Iceland, since he or she represents Iceland and our Icelanders in their beds. At the same time, a ambassador must have a close contact in the hosted or in the relevant international and cooperative institutions or have the basis for his previous work in order to build such ties quickly in a new location. Knowledge and experience in the field of foreign service are like a red thread in the above list. This knowledge and experience are the nature of the matter most commonly found in those who have devoted themselves to foreign affairs for a long time. Thus, like the state's foreign service that we prefer to compare with, ambassadors come from a series of more experienced personnel of the foreign service itself. However, we have good experience when we also look outside the department's arrangements for ambassadors who have comparable knowledge and experience in international affairs. I can mention, for example, the experienced and powerful officials from other governments, former Ministers and senators, powerful business and cultural people, to name something. Looking back on the last decades, it is estimated that some 20% of the active ambassadors have not served their lower positions in an office before being appointed ambassadors. This varies somewhat, of course, from years to years. I personally have deep conviction that it is good for foreign service, such as other work places, not to have a closed system. Of course, foreign services should weigh experience and knowledge from other sources against the knowledge and experience that people gain within it. Therefore, I feel that there was a great improvement in the removal of general ad of all jobs in the foreign service as well as the implementation of the new staff legislation in 1996. After that, there is no manual in lower foreign service positions by rules other than those in the general population. However, at the same time, the General decided to keep the first order regarding one category of foreign officials, i.e. So it's a 7th ad warrant. The staff's legal rights were not for ambassador's office, like what? A senator correctly pointed out earlier. That's why there's evidence, which remains the same as I mentioned earlier. The foreign service is not to be closed by any other system than those who walk the steps in the ministry to the end and as much as I appreciate all the knowledge and experience in the ministry and the good staff there, I think, and it is my personal opinion that the ministry is wise to be able also to enjoy knowledge and experience from this stage elsewhere. Still, the majority of the ambassadors come from a series of more experienced servants of the ministry. I think it's important that we do so, of course. Thus, the Ministry of State has vast knowledge and education, experience, and ability to operate. Finally, it is proper to state to avoid misunderstandings that we are here referring to a particular class of officials in the foreign service, i.e. that men or women receive orders in the office of ambassadors in the foreign office, but they have to do the ambassador's work after the decision of a minister, either at the Ministry or by any of the Iceland's emissaries now numbering 22 of our office in Rome, except for the U.S. district offices. However, there are examples of this, since then. paritaprevir pointed out how long people stopped in the ministry, that non - Witnesses who have been enrolled have spent up to 19 years in office, 15 years, 10 years, etc. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There are, however, a number of instances of short - term stopping.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u82	A respectable president. I want to thank you. The senator of this inquiry. I think it's important that we discuss this matter. I also think it's important that we try to build more confidence in this source of foreign service than has been because we haven't seen clearly the rules of an ambassador's office. Nevertheless, I agree with the highest. A minister who is not going to enter the ambassador's position is not to enter one way. Rather, we need to be that way with a wide variety of fleas. For example, I believe that having extensive knowledge and experience in culture, business, or politics can help people in the work of ambassadors. These groups should not be excluded. Even so, it is important that we have a course of action in the way people are selected, on what grounds, as well as the way they go and the way they are measured, so that they are clear and reliable. [[The president calls.]] There is also a limit to how the group is to be put together, and the gender variable must be taken into account when appointing an ambassador. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u83	A respectable president. I appreciate the answers. To me, if I think foreign services are very well designed and do very good things, I'm not interested in raising suspicions toward an ambassador's ambassador. But I don't like the way the ambassador's order works. V.E.G. A minister well explained that the requirements for an ambassador are, of course, legal requirements, but I think that all things need to be very clear and clear. For example, in Norway it is a process. There is an advertisement on the State Department's Web on an available ambassadorship and application deadline is 14 days. Then you will receive a special government council that reviews applications, then a human resources office, and you will interview successful candidates, etc. It's a process that people know is there. In Denmark, Norway, and Finland, it has been chosen to emphasize that there are a number of developments within the foreign service, so the ambassador's office itself is advertised among those in that progress system. I can see the benefits of that personal opinion at the highest level. The minister of state he traced here, to have the system more open than Norway, Finland and Sweden, and perhaps we'll go further towards the U.S. way where people from the business world and from here, and from there we'll be sending soldiers. For example, they need to appear before a Senate committee when appointed ambassadors, that is a process. I hope to the highest. The minister of state agrees with me that the discussion needs to be addressed, that there must be some sort of legal adjustment in order to make all of this much clearer, so that suspicion will be completely overcome. The order of an ambassador must not be so that people view this as a way of minister to distribute bitter bites. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u84	A respectable president. I think it's safe to say, and I'm going to allow myself to do so here, that the ambassadors who have been appointed through the years, whether they come from foreign service or elsewhere, did very well. I know why. A senator is not making up for anything else. Of course, certain responsibilities come with the authority of a minister to decide, for example, how to remove men from the foreign service and turn them into ambassadors. I believe, however, that in recent years that power was being handled quite well. However, there is something to say, and it is only natural to give a specific warning that such authority should be exercised by an individual or ministry. I'm gonna allow me to state that up until now, it has been chosen individuals who have something to offer. Certainly not that all politicians can, of course, assume that they will be assigned to foreign service. There's no way. I think it's good, too, that men have it in mind as well. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir mentioned, looking at the sexes. I know a certain disgrace for my ministry in it. We need to adjust the percentages of men and women in the highest places in the Ministry and in the ambassadors' positions as an example, of course it is my will to work on it. Then there is what we want to reflect through our ministry. We have very few emissary offices. We need to be very broad or broad in all our offices. As a result, I declare it, and have been put through the years a great deal of emphasis on choosing good people, and our people are doing this well. It's good to take this discussion. I don't necessarily agree with what. A senator that needs to be adjusted, but I'm open to hearing all the suggestions on changing. I will always want to make it possible for a minister to take people out of the service and put them into service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u85	V.E.G. President. During the last term, a group of workers on payments made to the parents of disabled and long - suffering children the results to the welfare minister. The group served as representatives of the Development Fund, Caring, Iceland's Qualification Alliance, and the State's Insurance Agency. They suggested that a committee be proposed for a bill or a collective law on the financial support of the State to the families of disabled and long - suffering children and that paying on the basis of new laws would replace care payments paid to parents under social assistance and payment to parents of long - suffering and disabled children. While there are some differences between these two types of payment, parents can have the right to have both species at the same time, although this is rare. Parental pay is primarily designed to meet the parent's lack of income because of the care of a child and is subject to income and tax pay. These payments are rare or relatively few, reaching 92 attendees in 2013, reaching 92 million. K. However, the provision of care is aimed at meeting the increased cost of care, as well as for increasing care, without any need for this care to result in the loss of a job market or to the end of study. These payments are paid in several categories and in different proportion but are not related and taxable. In 2013, the participants received 2,149, a total of some 1,500 million. K. In recent years, economic organizations are concerned about the relative reductions in the numbers of those who receive their payments and their small increases compared with the rest of the TR payments. Then, when parental payments were made in 2006, their association with care paid would be reimbursed. The service group I referred to earlier agrees with this and considers it preferable to coordinate care payments and parental payment in a single global system where the State's financial support systems for the parents of chronically ill and disabled children for the care of budgets and the loss of parents in the labour markets and benefits for those who can work. This team of workers returned the final report with the objective of this new category of payment where they were compatible, these two species. This would reduce the impact of analysis and system based on information on actual care and costs, and it would better define what is paid and put between combs due to care, cost and loss of income. The group then developed a developed idea of how payment would be done. So I want to ask the highest. Minister: ◯ Is a review of the CCR grafts at the time of the study Section 4. Law on Social Help? - And I think maybe we should add: parent rent. If so, what is the aim of the review, and when is it estimated that there are some proposals for change?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u86	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður, Ingibjörg the Ingadóttir for the inquiry. Like what? According to Article 4, a member of the body asked if the work is being done to reevaluate care funds. legislation on social assistance, and if so, what is the aim of the review and when it is expected that adjustments will be proposed. It should be recognised here to work on review of the CREEP Service has not yet been conducted for other jobs within the Ministry, but a team has been appointed to start work in all the following days. It includes representatives of the National Institutes of Development and Management, as well as representatives of the Department of Health, and the Department of Health. The head of the Outfit is Rakel Dögg Óskarsdóttir. We've connected this work with that global social security review. The service group is not intended to revise care payments for the prospectively disabled and/or long-term paediatric patients according to Article 4. track No. 99/2007, on social assistance, he will also review law No. 22/2006, about payment for parents of chronically ill or severely disabled children, or on so - called parental payments. One of his main tasks, then, must consider the benefits and defects of uniting care funds and parental payments into a comprehensive set of laws relating to government support to families of chronic and/or severely disabled children. Hv. A senator went through the notes and comments given by the staff, and I didn't notice if she mentioned that in comments to the bill what became the law No. 158/2007, change of law No. 22/2006, however, it is reasonable to note that the provision of the provision of the social services laws would be reviewed with a view to clarifying the rules of assistance to the parents of long - suffering and disabled children because of the proposed costs associated with illness or disability of their children. It was noted that there would be a two - year revision of the law, which would include experience. However, we have a fine record of just how much has happened in the modern world and since 2007. So the time has not been fulfilled to address these issues, although the committee has been appointed for that purpose. I believe, however, that this important project has been timed, though earlier, but the positive thing is that there is no experience in the implementation of these payments. Clearly, the working group needs to consider the changes in the circumstances of disabled and long - suffering children and their families since the last changes in care provision. Then we can also see how parents have been benefiting from their parents. For example, the birthplace of disabled children is almost history. As a result, children with a wide range of complex needs for care are being cared for by their parents. At such times, a disabled or long - suffering child often carries a number of costs over other children. Hence, we need to take into account these changes and the developments that have taken place in this series of issues. Thank you. A senator for pointing out the money involved. What you have heard from many people is that you do not see an increase in the number of parents seeking care. Our excellent health care, as well as our social services, can greatly improve the quality of life and improve the support of our children and their families, but families face great pressures in this situation. One of the things you've heard evidence of, e.g. From the state's diagnostic and counseling centre, children have a much more complex diagnosis than before, so you would have thought, in some respects, to be reflected in the numbers than we have not seen. I think it's important for the committee to consider that. Thus, the main objective of work is to evaluate how the funds available to benefit the parents of disabled and long - suffering children, as well as what changes are necessary in the legislation in that subject. I don't have a final opinion on what this is supposed to be, but, of course, I will wait for the proposals of the staff. I suppose the staff will need one year to take care of the situation. I'm expecting a report delivered at the end of 2015. I would have liked to see that the report had taken place before it would take time, that you have been studying at the time you've been at the Ministry of State for a time to do your job well. It is indeed a class of languages that is important to us that we work well and that we work fast. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u87	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of Harðardóttir Hardydó for answers. I'm going to express special satisfaction that she has appointed a group to review these matters and that I encourage her to include the Microcollar Union as its representatives in the former working group. On the other hand, I want to express disappointment that the work is not just being carried on as she was already working. These were the final results for which direct suggestions were made. I believe that it is possible to work on their basis, that work now does not need to take a year of heavy work already. Of course, a minister would like to have an opinion of the results, but there is some question about those who are interested in the matter as to how they feel it would be best to do so. Of course, it's important to review what is possible to do and what is done, but I feel that a whole year is needed to get results - and then they'll build a bill - too long. It is good, however, that this work is going on. I would like to encourage the Minister to perhaps hide his group from making a bill. That might speed the situation up. I'd also like to reiterate one thing about the care payments that are likely to move into another form. Although people can be almost complete or largely in a job market, they will be viewed not only for expenses but also for those who are disabled and disabled children and their families need protection and opportunities for the full rights and rights of the family, as well as for others, in accordance with the United Nations covenant for the rights of disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-01-26-56.u88	A respectable president. I thank you very much for this inquiry and thank the senator for keeping this alive here at the council. I was counting on her to keep us busy. It shall only be recognized here that the Icelandic management government is small. Although we feel that the ministry is big, there are 100 people working there, maybe two or three employees are working hard on this suit. When it comes to helping a committee write laws, we'd be talking about the few employees coming to it. We hope this thing can be won quickly. However, we have a job involved in an overall review of the social security system. It's the legal bills we've been stressing to bring as soon as possible into the council. We also have specific suggestions on driving and paying from insurance agencies and health insurance. We have proposals ready because we are working out. Of course, the current job will be looked to. These are individuals who have been appointed to be very familiar with this group and who are expected to be able to work quickly. Similarly, winning the bills will take time. There's something else that you've figured out better, i.e. that there is a much more complex work to do in the Ministry of Justice than when you were a government anti-continent here at the council.
