ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08.u1	It has been given as follows: Iceland's number tells: I have decreed, according to the request of the prime minister, that the Council shall meet to meet on Tuesday, September 8, 2015. As soon as I publish this, at the General Assembly, everyone who has a session is invited to come to Reykjavík for a day, and then the General Assembly will be appointed after a religious service in the cathedral at the beginning of the day. 10:30. Lock into sites, September 1st, 2015. Ólafur Ragnar Grímsson. Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. Presidential Letters for the Council to assemble on Tuesday, September 8, 2015 According to a letter I have read, I declare that the General Assembly of the Icelanders is set up. The national sovereignty and independence confirmed by the establishment of the republic and the right to the ocean's resources hundreds of miles from the shores of the country are evidence of the success of the Council, the basis for progress and prosperity, the anchor that has given Iceland a solid place in the world's society. The journey, however, was sometimes a challenge, but the Council always had the best chance to act with persistence and cooperation in the most difficult circumstances; the ultimate victory of one another in solid ports. Thus, the vast power that is now used for the benefit of a body of elders is based on the struggle of earlier times, the life - style of those who had previously decided on meetings, logical conclusions, and the content of laws. Congress is every reminder of this history, the heritage that the democratic terms bring to us, and at the same time the responsibility for the future, right to the fact that the time each one of us receives in this hall is a short chapter in the long history of the Council, our duty to hand the end of the council whole into the hands of the next. So young is the republic that when I passed 50 years ago, there was on the balcony of a small group of correspondents and old Guf, only the more frequent day - to - day jobs in this hall - still sitting in the council of directors from all groups who had been members of the United States in the United States on June 17, 1944, when the Republic's Institute and Presidency were described in the rain at the Öxará. Some had even given privileges of service during the great global crisis, years before foreign warships appeared here at the beginning of the war. The fight for Iceland's entire empire had lasted for nearly a century, and all knew that the sovereignty was a cornerstone of Iceland's independence demand, a right that was later intensified in a conflict with foreign countries for the extraction of land, the supreme premise that the small nation finally played a more important role than the empire, a state of sovereignty which was also a recent decisive weapon when the European Union tried to force the European Union to accept the debt of private banks. History, past and present, provides us with numerous examples that the sovereignty of a nation can determine its fate. That truth was central to the language and conviction of the generations who devoted their strength to independence, the rock that later enabled the people to exercise full control over sea resources and land bases. Iceland's directive is dedicated to this sovereignty, a standard that the leaders of the independence struggle considered among the most precious benefits in the nation's legal struggle. However, at present it is announced in the name of a committee that will address the Constitution that in the next few weeks the Presidential elections will need to change this cornerstone of the Icelandic government, the time is short, for the next spring's savings and economic elections are needed. It is not a national reference, nor is it a popular concern for the people of the land, but it is a general talk of international cooperation, legal technology, and the wishes of government officials. However, in the United Nations, the Council of Northern Nations, NATO, EFTA, and other republics, the United Nations has managed to maintain a wide range of international cooperations with countries, large and small, in all continents without the need to change the republic's sovereignty, the sacred legacy of independence. On the other hand, if the intention of the council is now to make contact with this cornerstone in the Republic's Constitution, a careful approach, a careful consideration of speech, and all aspects of the matter, the content of a broad discussion among the people of the consequences of such changes, the discussion in accordance with the democratic requirements of our time, and the debt we owe to the generations that for a hundred years of sacred sovereignty. The Board of Directors also offers suggestions on national payment and resource possession, but such ideas have certainly been thoroughly and frequently discussed in recent years, even decades. It is therefore a subject of greater and democratic coverage. However, it is also a challenge to select expressions of such articles in a constitution, especially when it is clear that differences are in both Congress and on how far to go, how extensive the right to demand a national law to be as well as how firmly the nation's resource rights are to be determined in a constitution, what in effect would involve the expression of a new law. I have long felt that articles on national property and votes should be discussed in a constitution, but at the same time, repeatedly, both in the past and in the past, that their contract is a problem, and neither a limit of time nor a savings may compromise the quality of the project. A connection to next spring's Presidential elections is small in these subjects and is even subversive in nature. If it is deemed necessary to transform a constitution into basics, expenses for the specific national pay on the subject may be limited, and it is only natural for the nation to be disturbed by other means and to weigh such changes. In addition, there is no need for the national administration to be upset when the nation selects president in spring, upset by uncertainty about regulations that directly or indirectly change authority and the position of the president. Therefore, I now reiterate the same warning as I did four years ago, that the General ensures that the nation knows for certain the position of the President in the national administration, when it reaches the ideal table, otherwise Presidential elections may become subject to an uncertainty tour. To link a significant change in the national constitution to the republic's election is, in effect, against the democratic nature of both tasks, and could therefore only be successful if a broad and general agreement, both within the council and outside, on the Constitution, does not become a special issue in discussions and struggles with the Presidential Council. We are not so poor Icelanders that it cannot be granted to the nation by separate elections the right to determine the constitution and to vote specifically for the President of the Republic, who will receive his authority and responsibility. So it is, as always, a great responsibility for the generals, especially when the basic rights of the nation and the government of the republic are instituted. This should be especially challenging, for history shows that such laws continue for a long time and shape the fate of people and individuals far beyond any other law. Anyone elected to the Council feels such duties, the trust that comes with it. I know this well of my own experience, a relationship that has lasted for half a century, even though responsibilities and positions began to change. When I, under the authority given me by the nation's council for the last time, I bring my heartfelt respect and thanks to the council, recall the many colleagues, especially those who brought me through their experience, in fact, all who traveled together in councils and committees. The General has linked much of my life's work to a great deal of my responsibility and responsibilities to the United States of England, bringing lessons for my benefit and happiness in caring for the work of the president. Allied members are given a historic heritage as well as opportunities to shape the future, to draw power from freedom, and to the democratic ship as a course of independence. It is always necessary to act in a modest way by those who know that the fate of all is inexplicable, that the nation may judge, sometimes hard, and may follow without warning, no one who takes the place of authority to the end forever. We also know that there will be an end to any time, that the whole of the people of Generalis and the successful nation are superior to the position of individuals. They come on the scene and disappear - but the Council itself maintains its place in the history of the Icelanders. I give sincere thanks to the council for a successful escort, with members of the council asking them to rise up from their seats and to remember their country. [[The senators rose up from their seats and prime minister, Sigmund, David the son of Gunnul, and said, "Our whole president and earth. Iceland lives, and the senators took the word with a four-fold hurrah shout.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-08.u2	I'll tell you what. Allied members and members of the General Assembly at the assembly ceremony welcome them. I expect to have a good partnership with all of them. Allied council members of the new legislature and hope that our work will be land and nation's goods. Now that the General regroups after an unusually brief summer break from meeting meetings, we are facing many challenges. Of course, political conflicts will arise over various issues that the council will face. It is the political course, reflecting the different views that are natural to be brought up in a discussion in an open democratic society. A general assembly is such a scene, ending our community's cornerstone. Therefore, we have a heavy responsibility in the power of the agency we have taken to the public in general elections. The General Assembly Act is the firm we set on our procedure and conversation in the Assembly Hall. It is important that these measures do everything at once, ensure democratic discussion, produce the will of the council, respect the lesser part, and provide space for careful handling. This may be a difficult way, and it seems to each one about exactly how these rules are to be done. We have now been working on a review of Congress projects based on the work that took place during the last term. This job has been more busy than I thought. However, that does not have to be all that is bad. Right, because this work is still being done, we now have the opportunity to learn from experience, especially the experiences of the last council. This is going to be a winter try. I know that members of Congress want to work hard on this project, and we realize that much is at stake. We do not have and must not approach this subject as a government or control, a smaller part or more. We must simply deal with the project as political ministers and with respect and ambition for the legislature agreement. We are also well aware that yesterday's government may be today's government. Thus, the interests of all of us work together in tailoring our work so that it will be in the interests of the U.S.A., the government of the administration, on the basis of the democratic commission that we members of the Parliament have received from the nation. The people we live in are not unlike those in the states we prefer to compare with, such as those in the North. So how sobering it is to think that our council often differs greatly from that of many times. So the explanation must be to look elsewhere, not in the rules we have brought to law. This has been a sobering thought to me during the past few months, and all of us must consider it. I would like to use this opportunity to express my joy with the success of the celebration here at the General Assembly and on June 19th. On women's 100th election anniversary. What a joy the solidarity that existed in connection with the church arrangement that was accepted for this occasion! That day was a tribute to the general and to all who came in preparation. I would also like to thank you for the wonderful gift that was given to the Council on that day by unveiling on the statue of I Ingibjörg H. Bjarnason, the first woman elected to be a member of the General Assembly. The statue is a magnificent symbol of the many women who broke the way for equality during the beginning of the last century. The sculpture made by Ragnhildur Stefánsdóttir is truly a work of art here at the PalaIllis. I have noticed that it is a source of great interest to the many people around, from abroad as well as from abroad. Last month at a meeting of the Presidency Committee, there were reviews that the Committee for Study Committees of the II Parliaments changed the bill. The bill is based on a major assessment made by the Senate's Office for Prime Ministers last year on the lessons learned from the experiences of the three research committees appointed by the Council by the General for the 2008 Fall of the Banks. This assessment was published on the World Congress website earlier this year, and it has been available to all who have wanted to study it. Work on the bill is well along, heading for the Presidency Committee to be submitted within the next few weeks. The Presidency Committee has also decided to submit at the beginning of the council its proposal for ethics for the general council. This proposal was submitted at the end of the last assembly in the agreement of all categories. Because of the situation that then existed during the council, the matter could not be resolved, but I expect us to complete this assignment early in this fall council. The Presidency Committee will also reimburse the next bill the committee brought in at the last Parliament on a new global law for State Review but could not complete its payment at that assembly. Finally, it is possible that an overall review of the Albus agent's law will be carried out. Should the results of that work be clear later in the fall. I want to finally assume that the 67th Council of the Northern Council will be held in Reykjavík, 27,◯29. October. ... inScarlet. Meetings at the Council fall down in those days. This meeting will soon be postponed, and I would like to ask members and guests to accept the occasion of the Lord's Evening Meal. I'm waiting for the highest. Prime Minister, to take me to the front of the hall. This meeting will now be postponed until the next hour. 13th
