ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u1	Borist has a letter from the 7th. Witchest. " Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, that she can't attend next week. Today, then, at the Second Council, a deputy of the Prosecution Party in the district, Anna María, the daughter of Elíasdóttir, who is the district deputy of the United States, has announced ahead of time. María, the Elíasdóttir of Elias, who has once sat at the General Assembly, is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u2	Borist has a letter from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for deadlines to give a written answer to a letter on the spell. 1193 National Bank, Iceland Bank, and Arion Bank, from the Godst of Þórðarson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u3	A respectable president. It is not only a bright and beautiful day but also a great holiday for us in the United States. We are celebrating today the 15th birthday of the party. It does not interfere with this breakthrough, if you look at the fields of Icelandic national affairs, and it suggests how difficult the situation in this area is now, a disturbance in the labour market, and a general conflict with government policy that has not only undermined peace in a labour market but also a plan for less integrated division of the population than examples are already going toward it, for example, through a series of macropills here at the General Assembly, to bring together resources in private. That is the most urgent question in Icelandic politics at this juncture: How will we achieve comparable values in this country as people offer themselves in neighboring lands? We see the need to turn distrust and lack faith in our future here in the United States. How will we maintain a standard of living here and in neighboring lands? How will we ensure the prosperity and welfare services that are comparable to those enjoyed in neighboring lands? How will we rid the land of the atmosphere of hopelessness today? It is the greatest political project on the next loss, and it will be very important to see how we will succeed in the future of the nation in the years to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u4	V.E.G. President. In the past, the media have reported an interesting financing project. The movie theater Bio Paradise has produced one of the largest collections on the Internet, with the goal of collecting some 4.5 million. K. to improve access to showrooms and halls. It's an ambitious project, but it should in the process wake us up in the financial power to reflect on the state of bioavailability in the community. The bioavailability of disabled people in all areas of society is a matter of human rights, as we should be aware, in line with the United Nations covenant on the rights of disabled people. We want everyone to enjoy culture, visit restaurants, and shop in shops - regardless of the degree of impairment. As lawgivers, we have attempted to ensure this access by building regulations, although all too often there was the political demand to dislodge them to ensure short - term relief on the construction of new facilities. Structural rules only reach new structures. However, houses are built for decades. Paradise's congregation sheds light on the problem of former housing owners or operators. They are under no obligation to make the home accessible, but if they are ambitious to improve access, the cost is one of them, for few or no funds exist that can be searched on because of such social projects that I would like to call. If we really want one community for everyone, we'd have to cooperate with both government funds and rural society to set up such funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to welcome here in particular the results of a food waste group which recently returned a report of proposals for improvement to the Environment and Resource Minister. I'd like to thank you, too. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's spirit is the initiative she has shown in establishing the subject here. According to the definition of the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, waste refers to the food waste to the part of food waste that would have been used for human consumption. Our responsibility in the wealthier communities of the world is high, since the waste here is largely due to our conduct and routine in daily life while the waste in the commercial communities of the world is further due to technical problems in the production, distribution, and storage of food. The report provides suggestions on studies of food waste, knowledge to consumers, and awareness, storage and the meaning of food, production, food distribution, and food waste in big firehouses, restaurants, and restaurants. I'm the highest. Environment and resource minister, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, to follow and prioritize the work group's proposals. In my opinion it is important to promote cooperation with companies, companies and institutions on the project, but in particular, I want to agree that it is important to work with schools and school schools at all levels. Then the project is provided for the development of the green mines carried out in many schools as well as the linking into various study articles. To make this possible, it is important that educational material be available to students and teachers. The work on food waste is a tremendous task on its own, but I urge a minister to connect it to work to reduce the environmental impact of food production in other ways, such as the effects of water use, the use of food, and the use of food, long - distances, and the implementation of biofuels that will inevitably fall into the molt.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u6	Mr. President. I don't know what to do. I don't know what to do with it. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, by his stand and council of the Agency for a bill submitted by the Independent Party and for the demolition of the Banks. [[Up front.]] The bank administration was established in the wake of the bank crash in order to possess parts of the State in savings and banks and to care for their sale. Now it's got the highest. Secretary of finance will bring up a bill suggesting that the Agency be put down, the projects will be implemented into the Ministry, the highest. Ministers are authorized to make a decision to sell state property in banks and savings, including the holding of property at the Bank of the Lands, and possibly the two banks now owned by demands, but they will likely be in the custody of the State. This can be the best. The secretary of finance does nothing but lay down the matter for two members of the Senate, but that does not say in the bill whether he needs to comply with their advice. He needs to consult the Secret Bank, but mostly he needs to consult with a panel of three men whom he himself commands. I believe this offers a number of dangers to the world. I believe that this is a good idea for creating suspicion, and in the present atmosphere, a strong charge is made against anyone sitting in the position of the secretary of finance who is heading for the removal of these things. It just so happens that we are. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson had a place of speech in this Assembly Hall in mid - December about this. Then we seemed to agree with the attitude I have expressed here. In an interview with the TV of December 11, a senator said that the Agency should continue to exist. In turn, the Special Assembly of the Agency agreed on a surmounting conclusion that the Bank Management Board will continue to exist and take care of the government's holdings on financial companies so that its point of view is extended. So I ask. Senator: What is his position on this matter, and he gave the forwarding party some notice in making a contribution to this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u7	A respectable president. Indeed, the Special Assembly of the Agency has concluded that there is a better chance that the Bank Board will seek to treat the financial parts of the State, including those to ensure an arm's length. Similarly, the High Priest's Assembly has concluded that the Lands Bank is to remain in government and operating as a community bank to promote market competition. The reason for this conclusion is that few races are in the country, the three big banks are combined with over 90% of their market share, and their profits last year became over 80 billion and over 60 billion years earlier. If the Land Bank was to be set up as a means of achieving a high - price economic competition, much of this would remain with bank customers, the people in the country. Perhaps that would be worth tens of billions of people, perhaps 20 to 30 billion. It's something that the move team feels is important to be examined. The second possibility is to sell it at the Bank of Lands, which most people find very obvious, and the contents of this bill include the sale of a high 30% share in the Bank of Lands. It would then be possible to use the price of selling to reduce the debt of a state fund that has been spent for perhaps some 70 to 90 billion, 30% out of 250 billion in personal money, something like that. Humans may not know what to sell, but the decrease in debt would reduce the State's interest rate by 36.5 billion a year, much lower than the number of billions that can be reduced by year after year by year by year's active competition in this country. Therefore, the nation just needs to think about it - and it may be our job to examine this bill carefully, we will, of course, do so in the discussion below. The Congress Party does not violate this bill's receiving political treatment and the routine. [[Up front.]] The House does not oppose the discussions of the bill, but members of Congress can have several warnings about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u8	Mr. President. With a mackerel bill of the highest. The marine and agricultural ministers are well reminded that in our constitution, there is no provision for national property on resources, nor is there any letter that the nation will guarantee its total price for the use of the resources. There is also nothing to say that a certain number of voters can ask for a national bill. They were the groups now sitting in charge, who fought against such a change in the constitution, and they did so for good reason. [[Up front.]] So clearly we can see now when lack of such provisions enables them to transfer some of the available resource to a silver charge. Therefore, the situation today is that the people of the land have no alternative to hinder this corruptionlike act but to collect their signatures and seek out the president that he does not confirm the law. Whether he takes this request into account or not, it depends on him, and each person sees that it is unacceptable and unacceptable. It is said that corruption is the most prevalent thing in countries rich in resources. We are rich in resources, and we have to fight that resource restrictions will be placed in a constitution as early as possible to protect our rights and to protect us from politicians who want to give away our valuables to those whom they approve, the valuable things we should use to build up our welfare system, our health and education system, and to work together to make peace and balance in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u9	President. I have mentioned earlier in this talk that sometimes it is like the highest. Ministers prefer to think of it as their role here in the field of inquiry not to answer questions or to reverse the questions asked by members of Congress. In fact, young people playing role games that politicians got the guidance of their teachers that they should never answer a question they were asked to ask, but they should just talk about what they wanted. This is what we have for people. During the query period, Ministers would like to read some of the text that has been written for them. The text usually describes the condition of the group that is questioned but is rarely an answer to the personal question. The latest blow is not to answer the questions of members of Congress but to go ahead and have a piece of tertus. In unsubstantiated requests, the same is true. On the subject of the University of Education, Reykjavík, U.S.A., U.S.A., U.S.A. Secretary of Education in response to Svandís Svavarsdóttir inquiry, by permission of the President: And I'm not sure that the University of Reykjavík would like to be the only one with a four - year study, i.e. From 16◯20 years of age, I'm not quite sure that it is, the ideas I've heard from that school do not turn to that. You're absolutely right at the highest. Minister. The School of Education in Reykjavík did not make that decision, but after the ninth grade, why did he not answer the question of whether he would be willing to listen to the suggestions of the School of Education in Reykjavík to take students into school and graduate from school after four years of study? Why can the minister of education not answer that question rather than have a peripheral twist?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u10	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make it a subject today of the official community called Istavia. It has been in the news for the past few weeks and months for various reasons. There seems to be some moral failure in the company's managers. They have been indulged in in professional affairs, so it has been observed. They have used the public tax money to pay off the annual festivals of employees and directors on an unprecedented scale. And now, last time, they've put a special tax on one of the professions that serve at Leifs Station, a cab driver. That tax is 120. K. in a year or 15 ups. K. a month or less than 500 bucks. Every time a passenger goes to Leifs Station, he goes to a passenger's station. It tells itself that this arrangement does not have a bearing on law or order. It also tells itself that it is not lucky to lie down on one level of service unions in the south and let it pay off the cost of this company's business. In business of this size, there must be other ways to make a profit than taxing this service. This service will then be expected to increase also for those using it, i.e. A passenger. So it is not that we are in foreordained. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir has requested that the National Reconnaissance be evaluated for business. It was submitted a few weeks ago and will be discussed tomorrow at the meeting of the Council's Presidency Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u11	A respectable president. These weeks are in focus, and the knot needed to be solved is big. The requirements vary according to the different groups that require dressback, all of which are understandable. Of course, the minimum wage after a full day's work should be so that they can be lived on, and of course education needs to be evaluated for pay. Otherwise, there is no incentive for people to invest in their education by committed themselves during the course of their education. We talked to the top of the bar. Prime Minister here yesterday, and he wants to avoid inflation. There was little else that he could get out of it on these matters. Both government officials and the company of the industry say they don't have the place for the pay raise on the line and they burn up anyway, but is this just the problem of employees? Is this the end of the conversation? Do these people have no ideas of how to solve the problem? At least I haven't heard much of them. I have one idea for professionals, free of charge: go ahead with a good example and contribute to stability by not paying you interest for perhaps three years. It is covered by billions of dollars a year, and if you are serious about stability, show it by posting money that would otherwise be available into investments in the company, for example. It's good for the investors, and it's good for the employees. Then there is another idea for the government: Lower the insurance fee, raise the birthworm, and prolong it, use the tools and tools available to governments to improve the systems here so that people and long-term quality of life can improve. If governments improve their performance, there is more to the exchange in payman's bins. [[The president calls.]] [[The point is, How do we do this?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u12	A respectable president. I'd like to give the occasion to discuss the big case today, which is the chicken business, and give special attention to last night's Kast Light Show. There was a man named Ari Skúlason, who knows things very well. I'm gonna go over what Ari Skúlason, who knows things very well, pointed out. He called attention to the fact that the situation was totally out of control in a job market and that he did not remember such a situation. He noted that huge success has been achieved last year, that inflation was low, that our loans had not increased, and that there was an increase in financial resources in everyone. Now there's a lot of anarchy, everybody wants everything, and if everyone gets everything, it's gonna be here. Who will lose on a stool? Who's going to lose the biggest thing on the headstone? These are the ones with the low pay and the ones with the highest debt. You see, it's been made clear that it's a complete misunderstanding that it's only about raising the lowest wage. That's a huge misunderstanding. I've criticized here for what it's like. a position of government for the demarcation of the people. I think it's more like it's added to this team now than the other one. I have also criticized many of the labor leaders for being a member of a sectal bitch rather than stressing the important things. I can't help complimenting this man who used to be in the front of the labor movement, Ari Skúlason, for taking these things seriously professionally and reminding us of the situation. I hope, no matter where we are, we disagree between the right and the left, we can work together to maintain stability, maintain low inflation, and work to improve our country's terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u13	A respectable president. Heavy discussion of fishing outlets has not been overlooked in any of the last days and weeks. It is as if the nation had learned that the sea route can pay whatever is lacking. The rising fishing costs are laid on the fishing industry, the spreads of the land were not affected, and the risk is further compression in the article, which is a terrible danger to the region. The most unfair portion of hunting costs is 20% of the profits paid by the allocation, which is not related to a person in most trades. Most important, we have a strong fishing road that can compete in foreign markets and that has the will and ability to pay well for fishermen and fishermen. This cannot be done by excessive taxation, and there is evidence that by excessive fishing costs, the road pays 50% of its income in taxes. I agree with Kolbeinn Francis Árnason, executive director of a fishing business, that we must take up the seabed discussion on an acceptable note. The debate on macroquathane is evidence of the deep gap between people and means. One economist said that 80% of the rate of renting mackerelvota in a new bill is a sign of complete ignorance of the subject and distinguishes rationality in the discussion. It's completely unacceptable discussion. If the mackerel shows up at the Icelanders this summer, we could catch you 150-170. There could be 20 billion tons and valuables. It's a good collection for state funds for the United States' 15th anniversary, as well as the macronium has created a lot of work in the country. If the Union, which wishes to accompany the nation in the European Union, suggests that we would be assigned a message from the Union that could be about 5% of the labor department, about 50 of you. To a ton, that is less than one third of what we have caught. Worse yet, they wouldn't cost us hunting. Is it what the Conspira wants on the United States' 15th birthday, no mackerel hunting charges, and no immoral owners of quatans? [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Why don't we work to settle the water so that we can continue to make good money for our country and pay for it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u14	V.E.G. President. I'm going to say a few words about children, and I'm going to say a few words about mackerel and natural resources. Iceland validated the United Nations Children's Convention in 1992, and many know that this important human rights contract has been adopted in Icelandic law. Much less know that the United Nations Childbearing Committee, which supervises the role of Member States in the Treaty, has made serious comments on the extent of waiting in Iceland after diagnosis for children with hyperactivity and attention deficits and other such disorders. This includes children with symptoms of autism or mental illness, and children with speech disorders. This has long been so long, though it may be clear to everyone that this waiting period and waiting period greatly impairs the quality of life of these children and the opportunity and the potential for proper response and proper training, and even though this conflicts with our duties according to the children's covenant, as stated earlier. According to my records, several tens of millions of people would have enough to shorten this waiting list very much and even destroy it. Is this acceptable priorities in a country with such valuable natural resources that they are measured for hundreds and hundreds of billions of dollars, and not for hundreds or hundreds of millions of dollars, as it costs to work on such shameful lists? V.E.G. President. Can we do anything more beneficial to our natural resources than improve the quality of life and opportunities of our children, especially those who need some support and are entitled to do so according to the United Nations Children's Convention? - I don't think so. When deciding how to use the mackerel stock and other natural resources we have together, and how to use the money they are to give us, we should always ask ourselves first: What is the best of our children in this country? In the present and future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u15	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is wish. Ladies and gentlemen of the United States, congratulations on the day. In today's abundance, there is a lot of waste on valuable things that can certainly be made better use of. You see, not everything is everywhere, but having enough is not allowing us to do bad things because we are part of a group in which everything hangs somehow and each person's contribution is important. According to the UN Food and Agriculture Organization, an estimated 1.3 billion tons of food are being lost each year. It's about as much food as it makes every year in sub-Saharan Africa. At the same time, one person in every seven people in the world is hungry to sleep, and more than 20 of you are hungry. children die daily from a lack of nutrition. These facts reflect significant imbalances in the lifestyle of people who once again have a major impact on the environment, including greenhouse gas emissions, land and water use, and other sources of food production. It all seems far away from us, but, of course, it's not. Fortunately, we Icelanders have taken these matters to heart and have tried to resist eating in this country. There have been conferences and meetings with various members of society, such as the Icelandic Women's Association, where the subject has been adopted. As noted, the extent of food waste in this country is, unfortunately, a lot. This is a serious matter, for food waste has a far - reaching effect on both nature, environment, and the world's economy. So I'd like to draw attention to the work group appointed by Environment and Resource Minister for the last fall has now produced a report that presents an excellent overview of its status and proposed ways of reducing food consumption. It is my hope that this report, along with others, will be the basis for the efforts of all of us to improve in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u16	A respectable president. Not long ago, at Patreck's farm, a coffee shop was opened in the old Lodgehouse. What impresses those who arrive is that even though an old house, which has been carefully designed, there is a fine example for the disabled. It's actually just ramps for a wheelchair that leads to the house, no steps, no such things. It's great to see these things in your mind. We've been discussing these issues with a recent transport committee and we've been wondering if there's a need to improve when monitoring access for the disabled, in the newly built, and in changes in housing. I'm afraid this is a problem in many places, and I agree with what was presented at the moment. Árnadóttir So Steinunn, we need to ask ourselves, " Where have we come in as a council and where are our funds to stand in the lawsuits of the Bó Paradise when it is necessary to make a special collection and effort to correct these matters? ' There's one way I'd like to mention it in this council hall, and it's about choosing with my wallet. We, as individuals, may have a profound impact on these matters; there is no need for public action if the public takes it for themselves to consider how these biofuels are handled in the companies he is involved and ask if access has been established to all, and is most likely to be used by those who have taken care of these matters. It's very sad to see how difficult these still are. It is the community that disabled people, and if we live in a community so that they have equal access to everyone, as has been done here, then the disability will not be inhibited.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u17	V.E.G. President. I'm here to discuss the principle and the use of economy. It is important for us to search such a standard and use it to identify a position in our efforts to influence social issues, make decisions, and shape policies. As we can see, there is now a more serious and more complex situation in the workplace than we have been accustomed to for a long time, a situation that we discussed, among other things, in a special discussion yesterday. Until 1990's national agreements, we had decades of struggle with inflation, a cross-interaction of paybacks, and an increase in prices. Today's statistics tell us that this has become a historic stability in which inflation has long been subject to the US Bank's inflation aim, which is based on the increase in buying that has been achieved since the last contracts. Then there are social development indicators that suggest an equality is greater than in Iceland and that the quality of life is high. The same results are found in the OECD income dispensing diets. A respectable president. Despite everything, there is a situation, a disturbance that is important to respect and identify. We need to figure out how to put these things in relation to the existing income levels and the spending patterns of different groups. Economics truly tell the story, not the whole story. The requirement for the lowest wage being made to survive them is fair. The aim of a handsome increase in the lowest salary is to be compatible with the aim of controlling the inflation and protecting stability, but it is also irresponsible not to look ahead when it comes to stability.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u18	The discussion that will last for an hour and a half depends on the regulations of the Parliamentary themes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u19	A respectable president. Today, the General Assembly of the Icelanders is placed in a very peculiar position, to say no more. Here I recommend the majority of all members of the administration and monitoring committees expressed in the minority opinion of the Committee, which is the response of the less part of the committee to the opinion of the Generalist on the affairs of the former Minister of Minister of Ministers. A respectable president. I can't find this procedure anywhere in Congress, and it's unique in the history of the council. True, this decision sets the example for the future, but it also shows how important it is to set up a legal office at the council, which would include the task of determining which matters are and which are not. Before proceeding any further, I would like to state that I asked for it at the General Assembly Hall yesterday to change the writing process. 1255, to which I am a 1st carrier, from a report to the opinion of the greater part of the management and monitoring committee. The request has not been made, and I request to the president that the price be corrected immediately. I now read the opinion that a greater part of the administration and monitoring committee is concerned with the management of confidentiality in the state of state and the duties of the Minister of the Interior, by permission of the President. Transporters with me have a problem. Andermen of Karl the son of Garðarsson, Einarsson, Bristur the Brynjar of Níelsson, and Sigmith Á. Andersen. A further section of the management and monitoring committee considers the case of the former Minister of Internal Affairs, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, finished with the approval of the World Council's emissary, published on January 22, 2015. In addition, the individual has held political responsibility by his resignation as a minister. It should be noted that a former ministerial servant has been judged for a violation of his job. A respectable president. I reiterate the conclusions of a greater proportion of administration and monitoring committees. Case closed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u20	V.E.G. President. I'm the first spokesman for my section of the Administrative Board and Control Committee of the Generals to report a form of a so-called "lector." The report is in addition to me. Councilmen Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Helgi Hjörvar, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir and Brynhildur St. Pétursdóttir's daughter. This is the final factor in a long process by the European Commission and Commission, but by the end of the last I have not experienced an inconsistencies in the treatment of the case until now, when the case is taken up, the government will be a larger part of the Commission at the head of the committee. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who then talks for the majority of reports read here. It points to the conclusion of the case as well as the completion of the case that the former minister took on political responsibility with his resignation. I'd like to protest both. First of all, take what. Senator, former U.S. Marshal. Minister, in a letter she sent out on her resignation that the resignation was primarily for personal reasons, not political. This does not mean that a contradiction in this issue does not affect its political odors, as is to be torn down in this report. On the one hand, I am stressing that the publicity of the General agent and his opinion is much narrower than that of the General Commission and Commission. The Commission and the Commission are based on the Parliamentary Act on the fundamental change in 2011, following the collapse of the economy, mainly with the aim of promoting the Administrative and Observational role of the General and binding of regulations that deal with the Commission's intelligence and integrity of the Council. In our opinion or report on this leak matter, we say that the report will include an information and truth-oriented minister to the Council, in the light of the Council of Congress and the Council of Congress; the collection of confidential information and the preservation of such data in councils, including confidential documents, and, finally, a discussion on the opinion of Councilman IIis, due to initiative concern on the relations of the local minister with the head of state of state at the capital area (MECC) is being undertaken. So this is the subject of this report that I'm measuring for. On December 10, 2013, this case, the leak case, first came in on the board of the World Commission and Commission on December 10, and then on a news report published in the press that there was a chance that confidential information would have been leaked from the State Department of the State to the media. The former minister then appeared before the committee. On February 11, 2014, the case again came up, after which there was trouble. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir attention to the Committee that the State Attorney had referred to a case for alleged leakage of personal information from the State Department to study with the police in the capital area. At the meeting of the European Commission on May 13, 2014, the case was still raised at the meeting of the Administrative Board of Directors and Control Committee, then I presented as chairman of the Committee that the case was not completed in view of what had happened to the Commission at the General Assembly and in the media reports of the police investigation. The case was resumed on August 22, 2014, still in connection with the handling of the case of the commission, then a minister had requested legal cases, police, and the prosecution, as well as the members of the commission. This is exactly what had happened since May 2014 and the second part of August of that year, that Aldus's agent considered the case. He did so at the end of July by means of a letter to the world's highest degree. The Minister of the Interior Minister and then came to the conclusion of August 25 that he would take the initiative to make a formal investigation of the case. When the case was discussed with the U.S. Marshal, it was realized that the committee would not even begin to exist in that case, since it is shown in the letter of the Council's agent when he gives his opinion in a letter dated to January 22, the day before he returns, that he has this complete understanding. It says, by permission of the president: Then I will, in view of the fact that the Council's Commission and Control Committee of the United States has declared that she has decided to delay her discussion on the affairs of the former Minister of Ministers, including the members of the United States. Delegated contact with the chief of police until the conclusion of my investigation is presented by the Committee to send a copy of the opinion. - It's got taken care of, along with the documents. I want to state it, tops. President, this letter, dated January 22nd, does not appear in the data, it is a mistake, and it will be handled accordingly. It's already on the portal, and it should be part of the case files as discussed here. A member of the Generals concluded that he is missing respect rather than a report. It points to the letter of the former Supreme Court. The minister of the inside to the office had a change, as the former minister made a new light of the matter, altered his statements, which led to the decision of an agent to give away his opinion rather than a report. A report to the Generalis is that it requires formal reactions that are less common to sectoral. By permission of the president, the former secretary of the state to the executive from January 8th is quoted as follows: It was a mistake on my part to communicate with the chief of police during the investigation. Later, it is announced that the chief of police records in the capital area of the Generals'agent were in the right position. Then, in the conclusion, it says: ▪ I also realize that this relationship was not entirely justified with the police officer. I already, in the presence of an agent, talked to Stefán and apologize for his dealings and my conduct in them. This also shows that various statements made at the Council were not correct. In view of the opinion of the General agent's office, I state that if his questions to the Minister had been answered, the case would have taken much less time. It wasn't. It was delayed, and we stress in the smaller part of the Administrative Board and Control Committee that its agent is entitled to do so and we have the right to be answered by the U.S. It also states that the former minister has laws to consult his Ministry on such issues. It is stated by the U.S. Marshal's agent that this was not the case, that he did not have convincing information about the outcome. Of course, this is important to the Ministry and to the people who work there. The report, which is the basis of this report, reviews the situation. It's traced, referred to discussions that were held at a council both in the report itself, and then it follows with the evidence. We then came to the conclusion that much had been lacking in the highest quality of society. Minister of former members of the council, as well as the declarations of the Council's Commission and Commission. I'm gonna allow me to read from our report, with the permission of the president: The majority claim that when discussing the matter at the Assembly Hall, a minister said, about the ministry's informal memo quoted in a press report, that there were no comparable evidence in the Ministry. Then Ministers also said that the information contained in the Ministry is widely available, i.e. to the Ministry's subsets, lawyers, the Red Cross, et cetera. Following the release of the Supreme Court, where it appears that a police investigation revealed that a memo was prepared in the Ministry of Internal Affairs on November 19, 2013, due to a planned protest with the Ministry due to its release in the case of the trustee, a minister has informed the General that the Ministry was a summary, not a formal memorandum for a particular client. Finally, a minister reported that there were two data, one a summary of the Ministry and the other: benefits where information would have been added where the Ministry could not be responsible. Then, with permission from the President's permission, they refer to the council inquiry: ▪ The headlines asked what a minister would have done to find out how data with sensitive personal information on the trustees could have gone to the press from the Ministry. The minority counts, according to the above, that the secretary's information on the development and existence of the memo was misleading and not consistent with the information and truth-oriented Minister to the Council. I still refer to our report, by permission of the President: The majority believe that when the Minister of Congress said that the information contained in the Ministry is widely available, including to the Ministry's subsets, lawyers, the Red Cross, et cetera. The party, if in effect, was to suggest that the employees of these bodies as well as the lawyers may have violated the rules of confidentiality. Such declarations must be considered serious on the part of a minister and damaging to the partner. An agent has also concluded that following the trial of the Supreme Court following June 16, 2014, a minister called the Chief of Police and criticized police detectives for their investigation. In particular, it has been found that the Minister's assistants rather than the general staff of the Ministry and certain information of the police's claim made in a district decision issued by the Supreme Court's Supreme Court. Regarding political responsibility and the Minister's responsibility in this matter, I still refer to the minority report, by permission of the president: The majority believe that the intervention of Ministers in the investigation of the case was serious and, in the highest way, it is recommended, but with reference to strict legal requirements for ministers responsible, in the light of Ministers' declarations to the Council's agent in connection with the case, the lesser part does not constitute a basis for further consideration of these factors. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: The issues discussed here are complex and involve many basic principles in the national administration order, including monitoring of authority, treatment of authority, including communications secretary to its members, government management and surveillance clearances, human rights, confidentiality in the administration, registration of data, trust in the administration and in the affairs of truth to the General and Council of the Council. A memory of the importance of those appointed, appointed, elected, or hired to perform public service must always be subject to the maintenance of their jobs, whether from elected representatives, those who enjoy the ministry, the media, or others. Then it is important that ministers use the authority entrusted to them in the light of the above criteria and be aware of the rights and administrative duties of the elected representatives in order to maintain the European Commission. Finally this, the highest. President, everybody has their rights. Former Ministers have the right to handle his case with fairness and fairness. But there are others who have their rights, those who enjoy the services of the administration, who find information about them, who are to be confidential. Government officials also have their rights, and the Generals are entitled to their own. Senators have their rights. Senators who direct questions to the executives, to Ministers, have their rights as well, and the Generals need their rights, as well as those of others.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u21	A respectable president. It's not true what was shown in the case of the head of the board of directors in this case, why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, that this report is about an agent's opinion. This report is not about that but about the conversation of the council at the highest level. Former Minister on this matter. An agent's opinion is about the intervention of the Minister of the Interior from a criminal investigation, which is a completely different matter. However, the matter was repeatedly asked at the council, and the answers varied, as we all know. That's why I agree that we should discuss this right now. Of course it's gonna end up like everybody else. I'd like to, at the beginning of my speech, too, to be clear, especially because some of the administrative and monitoring committees mentioned that there was some political raw game here, that I object. The Commission and monitoring committee is assigned to monitor the Commission and, therefore, the administrative board on behalf of the Generals. They follow up on what is believed to have gone wrong within the administration. To do this is not politics in the spirit that is often spoken of when people say that one thing and another is only politics. In most cases, some are trying to recover from someone else. Why is it vital that this committee try to get involved in such practices? There are aspects of this matter that we now discuss. An agent took the case for the alleged intervention of the former secretary of state and his assistants from a criminal investigation. The agent's inspection ended in January and came to the city of Generalis. In that view, some comments were made during the marches at the highest level. A former Minister of Internal Affairs and his assistants pointed out various aspects of the administration, which could be considered. For example, the current Minister of the Interior made it necessary to review what was involved in that ministry, and I recall as much as he concluded that it did not have to change specific procedures. However, it remains unclear how the Ministry of Presidency is going to respond to comments relating to government ethics and, for example, the letter to the assistants'address. These are the examples taken by the U.S. Marshal of Congress, but we are not discussing that opinion here, although it is a natural issue related to it. I'm going to do a story on going to the top. a former state minister to the council and how we at the council were able to learn what had really happened in this case. In fact, in my mind it is sobering to think that, as I say, it took a criminal investigation to present the truth in this matter. I think it must be for most of us here, if not all of us. In fact, I mentioned this to a skilled member of these materials, and he replied that the system had worked and asked if I was not happy with it. Of course, I am glad that the system worked, but I would have preferred that the council had received a clearer answer, and some later dramatic events might have been avoided. The Minister of the INS arrived on December 10, 2013. At that meeting, it was noted that information on the people who were taking refuge was widely covered, and for this reason I requested a special discussion on the matter at the council and asked what information was then collected and who did so. In this case, it was informative that this discussion was somewhat delayed. Some people were arguing that the council was stalling or something, but I want to say in this discussion that it wasn't. The matter had a natural course and was scheduled toward the end of January. During those discussions, I asked the minister if she had asked about who might have leaked the memo and if it had come from some State Department Subcommittee. In reply, the Minister of the Interior, among other things, said by permission of the president: Then asked him why. Every senator gathers or preserves the above information. This is done by the U.S. National Institutes of Foreign Affairs, Marshals, Police Department, National Social Services in many parts of the country, Counselors of Refugees, and Surgeons. Internal Affairs is the source of information, but only when the U.S. National Institutes of Iceland are reported to the Ministry, it's not. On the other hand, in terms of the Ministry's own decision, they are sent to the State Marshal, Foreign Institute, the Red Cross, as well as to the attorney of the trustees. For access to the requested data, it is available to the staff of the above organisations in the s. A respectable president. It is the nature of the question that the answers really raised the question of whether these controversial data had gone out of some of the sources that were quoted, but it did not. Then the minister in this matter says: A member of the House also asks for information on the fact that confidential information on individual inmates has been delivered from the State Department to those who are not involved. To answer that, I reiterate what I have already said on this subject. The Ministry has in many ways examined whether confidential information has been sent from the Ministry to an unknown source. As a result of the complaint by the attorney of a trustee, it was done through discussions with employees, a review of the Ministry database, a comparison of the evidence available in the Ministry that has been discussed in the media as well as a result of the Commission's management committee's independent examination of whether the computer-competent evidence due to the case might have gone out of the Ministry. The conclusion of these observations is that none of the Ministry's data indicate that confidential data has been sent to persons who are not entitled to that law. A respectable president. This is certainly sobering in view of the late criminal investigation and began sometime at that time or shortly thereafter to sum up what the former minister chooses to call, which was as good as the consistent memo sent to the press, was sent to the minister on November 19, 2013. This is shown in the criminal investigation. Hence, one must think: How did the management board proceed? Thus, we must learn that if such cases come up again, we must have a thorough investigation, not of the kind of cat washing appears to have been here. In writing, the answer to our inquiry by the Mörður of the Árnason, dated in January, arrived late and eventually, i.e. May 13, once again, it was shown that not a formal memo but a summary of the cases of temporary residents in the Ministry. A respectable president. Of course, speaking about a summary is all there is to it, not a formal memo. Such a wording does not add confidence. As to this, our report of the reduction of the share of the management and monitoring committee by permission of the President states: The lesson points out that when discussing matters at the General Assembly, the minister has the initiative required to provide the information available to the council and to make a significant translation of the council's evaluation of the matter. The minority feels that by court hearing it is clear that a minister had received a review of a 19 November 2013 memo and that he would have had information that in the Ministry it had been prepared a memo for the proposed protests to the Ministry on the basis of its payment on a trustee's case. The minority emphasizes that this information was of importance to the council's assessment of the case, which included the understanding that media coverage was based on evidence from the State Department or Internal Affairs. The request was to see what a minister would have done to see how data with sensitive personal information on the security officials could have gone to the press from the Ministry. The minority counts, according to the above, that the secretary's information on the development and existence of the memo was misleading and not consistent with the information and truth-oriented Minister to the Council. A respectable president. It still has to be concluded that the former Minister of Ministers, when asked in June 2014, was relieved to shoot at the events when she was asked about the news that the police may have reasoned that a government official had given the press the informal memo that she did not know the study and that it would be unusual for her to know its unique features. However, it is in the opinion of an agent that she closely monitored the progress of the study. On May 6, 2014, two asked. The former senators on this matter, Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir's daughter and Birgitta Jónsdóttir. Part of the answer to the latter was the following, by permission of the president: I repeat what I said before that I have experienced this matter, and I don't intend to cross it exactly here, as part of a political spin, and as a political ugly game. I'll explain later. A respectable president. I'm sure now I'm not the only one who's ever wondered what my ex-fiancée was. A minister was referring to these words. That is exactly one of the questions I would have wanted to ask. A senator if she had responded to our request to the Board of Directors and Observers Committee for a meeting with the committee after U.S. Marshal's approval. But she didn't, and so I laugh to ask now. Hv. A senator has attended after she returned to the council explaining her position on the matter and, among other things, felt that it was a heart - working thing to report her office of Ministers when an investigation of her office began. To me, this has never been about rhythms or what is called political issues. It was about the fact that serious confidentiality occurred when personal information was leaked to the media from the state of the state of state. It was broken down, as you have been condemned, i.e. leakage of confidential information. After that, they found out the truth about what had happened. However, it took some forms where people did not come to the door clean. On the contrary, those who asked about the matter were more likely to do so. I like it. A senator owes us here to explain what she said she would do: What did she mean when she spoke of an ugly political game?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u22	V.E.G. President. This discussion may give us a small reason to discuss in general the role of the Commission and the monitoring committee, how it should be handled in a case under discussion, etc. The issue presented here was first mentioned in December 2013 if I correctly recall on the board of administration and surveillance committees when a certain number of members of the Committee on Commission wanted to leak confidential information from the Ministry. There was no comment in itself about leaking confidential information in some form, and it was discussed in a small way. Then, in February 2014, the police investigation is started slightly again, i.e. The point is that police are now investigating the leak of confidential information. The minister appeared before the committee, revealing what the Ministry itself had done in an effort to clarify the matter. The case was discussed in May when news of the police investigation itself appeared in the press, and later the case is reviewed in the Committee after the U.S. government agent decides to take an initiative in the handling of the minister to the chief of police in the capital area. These were often small and humble discussions, discussing what had been presented in the news. As may be indicated in the overview of this case, the committee's confidential information and the office duties of the minister were considered or discussed. Of course, now that the case takes place, the leak of confidential information leads to a conclusion. The charge is issued, that is, a court case, where the leak of confidential information is accurately and accurately explained. We're in a hurry. A general agent gives an opinion about the minister's dealings with the chief of police and makes comments with that kind of communication. I did not necessarily agree with all the findings made by an agent, but he is important to the council and to the committee, and he will come to this conclusion, and we will follow it. This statement ends with the agent's opinion, i.e. there is no basis for the committee to do something more with it in itself or the leak that such ones are informed of. Then you ask yourself, " How will the committee handle this discussion? ' The majority of them think it's only right to refer to the facts available. Of course, humans can talk about it as they please. This is neither the basis for making a report of it nor the source of what the U.S. agent found in his study. It remains, and probably as a result of the failure of a single mind in this committee, the development of a thorough report on the minister's dealings with the council, which had obviously been discussed both during the council and in some way on the committee. Of course, there are differing opinions on this, but based on a management and monitoring committee that needs credibility and trust, it must have the basis for taking a stand as the lesser part of this case does. I don't think it's something to be told who's lying and who's saying something misleading. We can have different opinions about this. If the committee is to play such a role and to decide such a thing, a serious investigation must be made either to get someone involved or to do it in some way, since when we are evaluating whether a minister has failed to fulfill his duties of truth to the council, we need to consider what can be said in each case, what is confidential. The minister's knowledge needs to be considered at any given time. From what was normal not to say, e.g. of an investigation if she knew anything about her? We had no basis for doubting that the Minister had given it to the General according to her knowledge at any given time. Hence, the committee was not really able to have a mutual opinion. Of course she doesn't have to be. We have received information on the most important issue of the leak of confidential information, about the minister's communication with the sheriff, and then we have each opinion on what understanding we should put in her answers at a particular time, what the minister may have meant, what would be normal for her to say, and what might have been said. While such an opinion has not been made, while no individual has made an investigation, I do not feel that the committee would take the position of judging the case. I've been approached several times, and I've asked why I didn't file a case since the Ministry of finance told the Congress what had been going on in negotiations with the banks' demands. This can be viewed by individuals. I can do it - we can take more. [[Up front.]] I'm just taking it as an example, and it's always being asked for it. This is not to be taken into account that every time there is a news report about a minister, that someone has an opinion of something that may have been over a long time, the committee will consider that the secretary of finance of the last government has made a false statement that points to some evidence in it. We never know what was behind it, at least we don't know it now. We could figure it out, but it's not even a minister anymore, and I think general caution should be taken that the committee would sit in such a court seat that will do nothing but upset the whole thing. I think it's fine for members of the council to consider, but it's not my problem that men come to the councilroom and argue about the minister's answers, but I'm not ready for the committee to take this role.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u23	A respectable president. The role of administration and monitoring committees has been discussed here. I have to say, I think it's very important for her to take this case and finish it as we are doing here, i.e. this systemic treatment. The committee should take the initiative to investigate individual ministers' decisions and their procedures. Something may have been done during the last term that the committee should have considered; in itself, it does not change for me in this matter, either the committee has this role or not. We can't go back to class, we just have to look forward. There is nothing to be traced back to this, such as it has been here; it is a sad story and a serious matter in many respects. For one thing, confidential information from the administration is leaked, sensitive personal information is leaked. There is reason to take it very seriously and it was done. I also think this case is an amazing example of waste of time and money and would be interesting to know how much it's cost to pay cash if we enter the company's petition, the police investigation, the agent's work on the case, all the work, time, energy that has gone into it with the Ministry officials, which has been badly spent during the months of the case, as well as some expense for public relations, as for the taxpayers. We are also referring to a minister who shows lack of judgment. It may be said, though, that hiring an assistant who proves to be quite unprovable is not good, but it may not be possible to prevent it. What is unfortunate, but what is worse is that when such a matter arises, it is very important for a minister to step aside and create peace for his office. Ex-fiancé. A minister has acknowledged that she should have. It is also serious that when a minister betrays trust, politics brings down. It's not good for politics. It is certainly not in me to look forward to the misfortune of my associates here in other political parties because it is important for all of us that we are doing well and that we are to be remembered in the media because it means that we are doing something right. So I don't like politics too. Another important point is that the politicians get very involved with us in this case, which always turns out when people are in a group. The Council is to monitor the Executive Director. I've never understood why the greater part should not also be in the role of monitoring the executives, no matter how Ministers, the executives, are members of the same category. Because people are always talking about the last terms, let's just talk about the last terms and try to reverse the problem. If the Minister of the Left Green or the United States had exactly the same thing, why do I have the feeling that people who would rather not discuss this matter would be so red in the Generals' chair? Then this would look completely different. That's it. People see through this, and it's unfaithful. But that's the way it is. I don't think we're going to improve politics until we're honest about this. I'm just hoping that if the Secretary of the Bright Future were to behave as if I were a senator, I wouldn't keep it to myself. If I did, I should get out of politics. It is also said that the case is closed because a minister resigns. I'm very sorry for a minister, sir. paritaprevir Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, has ended up as a minister because I had and, in many respects, considered Hanna Birna. I know she's done some good things in politics. I was sad about this, but there are voters who are judging for continuation. A senator in politics. But I can't see that the case can be said to be closed because a minister resigns as if there was a full-scale penalties. Of course, that is not the case. A minister can resign because the minister of that slave no longer has the confidence or confidence that the office needs to be changed. It is similar with the opinion of the emissary of the Generals. If a board of directors continues to discuss the matter, it will do so regardless of whether an agent has paid his opinion. It's not necessarily some final point. I'd say that this discussion here is the final point of the political treatment of this case. If you try to see something positive about it, it is that the police investigated and informed the crime, the courts judged him, the agent took a look at the matter on his own initiative and made a good point. The stems did a great job. In fact, I've never understood the assessment of the management board's business. There must be something to consider. Like what? paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir came in is, in fact, worse to have a cat laundry. It would have been better just to skip it for research. Not to be overlooked was the feature of journalists who revealed the situation that we at the council did not perform and had no access to. They were on the watch. You could almost claim that our trust in the important institutions had increased, but unfortunately, our trust in politics had similarly diminished.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u24	A respectable president. This is in my opinion and I expect more people in this room... one of the most unpleasant cases we've discussed at the General Assembly. One of the most boring things I know, both in my own and in the other, is our human tendency to judge one another. I don't want to judge anyone, and I get bored when people judge one another. But when it comes to such matters, it is fundamental that we learn from the past, learn from the mistakes we have made. I'm making a mistake. We all make mistakes, all kinds of mistakes, professional mistakes, political mistakes, personal mistakes. But I try to see them, and I do my best to fix them, and of course they admit to myself and to others, first of course, you can't go anywhere. That's it. We cannot learn from this experience if we do not accept the denial and the efficiency we have seen since that leaking case on November 20, 2013. Government and its supporters and the then superior minister made it seem as if there were some form of media and ignored the facts that came forward over and over again - every step. None of the things I have used to form an opinion on this matter comes from the media but the leak itself, i.e. News coverage of November 20, 2013 Every step I've tried to interpret the facts. the minister in favor. At each stage, I have assumed that the media are exciting people, building on falsehoods that can arise on every occasion. As I said before, the mistake is human, but this was a very serious mistake for every step. It was not merely the denial of the leak itself, and it was not just the so - called internal examination that remains appear to be nothing more than a whitewash. We have to face it. It does not mean that there is an inconsistencies of court statements to the so - called Supreme Court. Minister and this internal examination, which I shall hopefully go out into later if time permits, that is communication with the chief, and then, of course, the reaction to everything. It was always demeaned, always as little as possible. I suggest there's a mistake on every mistake. Now it is only possible to assume that the opinion of the U.S. agent did not deal with the leak problem as a whole, that was a matter of communication only at the highest level. Minister to the Chief of Police, Stefán Eiríksson. There's more in the leaky business to learn from than just that. If this were the only lesson, the memory part may not publish a 24 - page report, or 166 with the accompanying documents, compared with these three sentences from the base. More than that. We must ask ourselves: " What have we learned? I hope we learn something from this, but I'm afraid all we've learned is that already the highest. A minister does not tell us exactly the exact same data, that when a minister says that the requested data was neither prepared with consciousness nor that the wish of a minister or a secretary's office, he means that the data were received by e - mail to ministers, assistants and office managers, the day before leaks. There's such inconsistencies, and no matter how hard you try, you can't overlook. I challenge the highest. former minister and all his supporters putting themselves in my shoes. What am I supposed to think? What am I supposed to think? How should I interpret these data in my favor of the Honourable Former Minister of State, and would it be best for the members of this case? I try as hard as I can, but the inconsistencies in my eyes. It's definitely inevitable. It can be denied only by divulging credibility and increasing the suspicion that all of this has already caused. I also fear that we have learned that when an internal examination takes place at the Ministry Department, it does not take to heart the content of the ministry's e - mails or open mails. As noted in court documents, the memo, this evidence that came to light that it was not only very similar but almost exactly the same data as reported in a report on November 20, 2013, was sent by the head of the Office of the Ministry by email to the Ministry, Minister and two assistant ministers by 1717 on November 19, 2013. This is stated in the decision of the province of Reykjavík, June 6, 2014. On May 2, 2013, the Supreme Court declared that the memo had been saved at about the time. 17 Tuesday, November 19, 2013, at the Department's opening drive so that each employee could have approached it, but news based on it would have appeared in the media the following day. This is the Supreme Court, the honored President, this is not the media I have left. Some months later, after internal inspection, no comparable evidence was found in the Ministry. How are we supposed to believe this, Mr. Honorable President? What does this teach us but to distrust and distrust a system we need to trust? There's no improvement in how more things were done. The management board has taken care of the situation, I'm going to go on a little later, because it's going to continue what we're supposed to have learned or I hope we don't have to learn in the future, e.g. that when a minister claims to have no knowledge of the investigation and in good sense that it would be highly unnatural if he knew something much about the study that we will be privileged to accept, he is in effect in direct contact with the chief of police in the capital area. Whether it is to help with the study or not, it is interference. We know, as it turned out, that there was a knowledge of the subject. Should we learn that when a minister claims to help the police in an investigation, he is a source of complaints about the scope of the investigation and declarations to need to investigate the investigation? Are these the lessons we need to take into the future? Should we have learned one lesson from this matter of not trusting or believing? I'm afraid so. Once again, I find it hard to talk about people with suspicion, but there are no exceptions. At that time, a prominent chief of police in the South, Sigríður Guðjónsdóttir Gujornóttir, gave information to Gísli Freyr son of Valdórsson, and ousted from the explanations that this esteemed sheriff has given, it also happened that the former chief of the police. The local minister appointed this chief of police to be a police officer in the capital area without advertising, which is certainly legal and completely valid - but that makes them suspicious. The denial that continues in this aspect of the matter continues to cause suspicion and will continue to cause suspicion until we face up to what has happened in this year of this so - called leakage. All of this has become cynical because of just the way the reaction has been on the part of the former Supreme Court. Minister, commander. Governments and now what? more part of the management and monitoring committee. Three sentences were enough to make more part of the management and monitoring committee said everything that the greater part wanted to say, in effect, as well. 2.m. s.. So said earlier, with the permission of a president: ▪ The barrier is over.How's it going? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'm afraid it'll never end. I fear this case will end the rest of the political story. There's still one, of course, enough to be taken, unfortunately. I used to wonder, too, when it happened. 5th a.m. Reykv.. n. says in a pita he doesn't look so cool. The management board should appear in the role of a judge but should start some investigation or such. Well, a respectable president, let's do it rather than settle it with three phrases in which we simply say, "The case is over. " The show's over, let's all go home. That won't do, Mr. Honorable President. It's with this high council, like everything that seems to be involved, that's a bit suspicious. We can't have any more of it. This case is in the best chance of a perfect screwup from start to finish, at worst, some word that I'm not going to fall on at this time. Each step was made a mistake, with each step code undermined the credibility of the system we all rely on, at each step's function and denial.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u25	V.E.G. President. I believed that I would later be on the rosary in this case, but last night's discussions were interrupted and resolved to continue today. We're dealing with a bill for a law on the change in law laws on the violation of financial markets. It is urgent to take this matter before and from the discussion that there is a general agreement on key elements of the bill. Rather, it is critical that there may be more specific factors and that there might be some things in the bill that are not there. It was shown in the matter of what. paritaprevir Yesterday's accusers, Össur of Skarphéðinsson's son, were to agree in the bill that the penalty for violations of financial markets should be fines, governmental fines, or other fines, and to avoid prison sentences as possible unless it was a very serious, gross crime. That's why I'm here. What man has particularly stopped in the discussion of this matter is a translation of what is called ◯whistle blowing, i.e. ... exposure. It has been noted that this bill had to be included in its regulations. It is true that somewhere in a report, it is said that a revelation is becoming publicized at legislature conventions west of the sea and east. I am here to make a New Council council meeting in Strasbourg, where a project on exposure was taken up. It was a Dutch senator from the right wing of the politics that spoke to her, but he had stood before open meetings with Edward Snowden in a double or trient from Moscow for an informer and forbidden. This matter was accepted by the Council of Europe to be held as a red cord into the future, and I supported it wholeheartedly, both in speech and then in votes. Less than a year ago, I had the opportunity to listen to Nader Ralph's lecture in Berkeley, California. In the United States, Ralph Nader, who was first able to speak in the 1960's as one of the prime consumer pioneers in the United States, has made himself available several times. I remember how thoroughly and refreshed he shook up in the law and regulations and in the advertising world at that time. He told them, since the 1960's, that the problem was not necessarily in advertising as such, perhaps not in the principle or in the law of advertising, but in the problem that these rules and laws were not carried out, that would be the problem. His campaign went on to take out the media declarations about the best cleaning material in the world, of the good car, etc. and test it, test the truth of the advertisement. Why do I raise a question at Ralph Nader and his address in Berkeley last summer's office that I heard? Because he came there especially because of the importance of informers. He said: "If I should get an approved proposal to make the financial world more righteous and honest, there is one law that I would prefer to accept and there is a law about informers, because it is one, he said, to have a good rule, it's one thing to have a good law, but then the question is to get information about it from the system when they're breaking the law or rules. In fact, he had other suggestions. He wanted to have and talk about what he called a full - time citizen to provide the system with everything. He said: "In the United States - I don't remember exactly what the number was - there are probably about two, three million bird viewers, and it would have to be at least one of the principles of community opinion that were followed by the rule of the administration and that promoted the procedure of law and order. More important, it would come from within, from the administration board, from the financial institutions. It is not now that the committee that developed this bill on changing the law laws on violations of financial market violations did not direct its eyes to the precise point, since the report needs to be considered specifically and that the committee specifically considered the setting of laid down rules on redemptives, ▪whistle blowing, legislation, and the report is then referred to such national legislation. It says, by permission of the President: In Denmark, Britain, Liechtenstein, and Malta, the Nether had a look at the laid-up legislation in Denmark, and in Malta. After this study and considering that Norway and Sweden are now working to legalize the regulations of the 2013/36/ESB directives on exposure, the committee felt that the country's legislation should be delayed and the country's development in neighboring countries should be observed. V.E.G. President. I ask, "Why do I have to wait? " I quoted from a talk at which point. paritaprevir He was the Össur of Skarphéðinsson before, and I could hear no better than that he referred to legislation, including law enforcement. in Sweden and Britain, who would have had fine results. And he pointed to statistics that showed just how the enlightened were growing and had been growing in the last few years, some in 2013 and 2014, and how the informants were supporting or sheltered by laws in those countries. If I recall, it's so in Sweden that the informants of the financial system are supposed to enjoy immunity, if I'm right. If previously they reported on the findings of the financial agency and have not come to grips with the issues and issues of the latter, they are defenders, i.e. It has been shown that there is a grammatical basis for the exposure, that they have made the financial agency aware of what is going on, and then they are under cover. It was also suggested that in Britain not only one but many institutions, which from different dimensions and angles, deal with them. So I wondered what it is that makes it impossible for this material to be accepted into the law. What is so complex about putting laws into the laws that expose financial institutions to some kind of protection? What's so complicated about it? I tried as hard as I could to observe the discussion that was conducted on the bill yesterday, even though I wasn't here in the gym, thanks to the communication technique, there are other places to follow than in the conference room. I did not realize that there would be explanations or strong evidence that these matters would not be addressed on this bill. I'd like to know about it from the chairman of the Parliament's Economic and Business Committee, who has this bill for discussion, what his view of these matters is. As I say, this is now the case all over the world, especially after Edward Snowdens's informants, the National Assembly of both the West and the East, and not merely one law or two, they're trying to converge all the laws and the whole principle to support and protect people who come up in a public interest to show us what's going wrong in financial affairs. We have in our laws to listen to, to listen to those who are suspected of a very serious violation of the law. It is an enormous intervention in people's lives when this occurs, and it is natural that a person's bed is very well and thorough, trying to move out or move to the border as far as he is concerned. But here we're not talking about anything like that. We are talking about individuals who work in financial companies or in the administrations or other places where the public interests are tested for protection from the Lawgiver, are protected by regulations and laws in order to protect themselves if they see something fall into serious nature and inform the public and society about it. I wish that before this discussion ends, we will have an explanation of how it says that this bill does not contain laws or laws to protect the informants.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u26	Mr. President. I just agree with what. paritaprevir Ögmundur the son of Jónasson's attitude that it is important for us senators to discuss this matter within the council to get an explanation of this at the highest level. Financial and economic secretarys why this bill does not include in this bill for the protection of informers, especially when considering that one of the work groups that wrote the bill was just dealing with such regulations. I also believe, Mr. President, that it would be very important for the case to appear on behalf of the head of the Economic and Business Committee, who will take his position on this matter. I've noticed that when we've had a discussion about related issues that have to do with the banking system, I've at least had it. On the one hand and the other. paritaprevir Haunted Jónasson, and on the other hand why. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson has been guessing. But that's right. A senator said that I appreciate it so that this bill is entirely good unless these regulations are missing. Hv. A senator referred to me for information on Sweden. It is absolutely true that I pointed to the fact that in Sweden workers have a very wide right to inform themselves about the company they work for if they learn of something that can be considered illegal, and no pressure on the part of the employer can be applied to them. So much confidence exists in such informers that even the government itself is denied information about the names of those who share information. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament: Does he not think that it is only possible that in the Senate discussion, there will be a great deal of emphasis on reaching such regulations into the bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u27	V.E.G. President. First, I want to point out that it is, of course, the highest. The secretary of finance to explain this to us, not to the chairman of the Council's Economic and Business Committee, how it works that the directives for informers are not to be found in these laws, since it is 1st. The point. This does not make it interesting to hear the opinion of the president of the Economic and Business Committee and of the rest of the committees in this regard. About a question why. I agree with him wholeheartedly that during the treatment of the council, it is important to get laws on informers into the bill, and I also agree with him on the importance of this bill and that there is a basis for a legal arrangement that is very broad in the council. Then you might say: If we agree on the other, which seems to be in the bill's report, it is important to strengthen the legal standing of the informants in the system, we should do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u28	Mr. President. I think it's important that we do what we do. A senator will agree on the need to shoot into this bill of informants. But he had a misunderstanding that I thought there was some obligation on the part of him. paritaprevir Frosti, son of Sigurjónsson, to inform or explain why the law was lacking in such a law. I made it clear that it is the highest. Secretary of finance handling this information. Now it is, as we know, that 1st. is mainly an explanation and research debate in which you are going over the basics and terms that are proposed and you may not be expected to have a clear position before an investigation of the committee is completed and that you will have a clear view of specific matters. However, I was able to do so. paritaprevir When it comes to rebuilding any manner of behavior that might lead to the collapse of the bank one day in the future, Frosti Sigurjónsson would have agreed well with us. We've seen it before, e.g. When we've talked about bank booths, which I and my interviewer have been talking about. paritaprevir For example, consider the example of Jónasson, the son of Jonah. Um., could be met at the council on at least minimal changes. And I thought it would be very good if the Chairman of the Committee, who has not addressed the bill, could be taken to this particular issue. So I express my opinion that the reason why there are no laws or suggestions on immunity, protection, and encouragement to the illuminators of the bill is primarily that there were no references in the staff. I think there's been a disagreement about this. I'm asking why. A senator would think that it might be related that while working on the bill, there was also a price to pay for information on the potential tax collections of non-endurances in foreign countries, where it was supposed to have been not obtained legitimately. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u29	V.E.G. President. I must admit that I do not know about the Committee's work or attitudes there, which won this bill. But the other is sure that the informants and their security of justice are not the only ones in society, so far away. I was here referring to a discussion that had been conducted at the Council of Europe a few weeks ago. There was a disagreement. Although there was a Dutch right man who gave the case, his political associates were elsewhere in Britain, for example, very opposed to this bill. So this is not the only thing. Whether any of these differences have been found in the Committee and may be attributable to what has just happened here regarding potential tax fraud information, it should not be said. But we can put it to the test. If they agree on the matter, if they just agree to strengthen the rights of a informant, we will. Then we will do so promptly in the treatment of the council. With regard to the role of the Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, there is no disagreement between us, me and what. paritaprevir That's the case with Skarphéðinsson's son. I was the one who misspoken me when I said that he had been called for information, I corrected it, and I said it would be interesting to get the Chairman's position on the case. I agree with what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Acquirer to the head of the Economic and Business Committee has proved to be a far - reaching success in many matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir My speech to Ögmundur the son of Jónasson. I come here, and I'm on something like that. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, and would like to back up my answer to what was presented in his case on the Council of Europe and on the informer's discussion. I want to thank you. A senator for sharing points with us from these discussions. He represents us here by the council, one of the few, in the Council of Europe. And as everyone knows, the Council of Europe is the Council of Human Rights in Europe approved at the time, the Council of the European Court of Human Rights. It is quite interesting, as noted in his case earlier in the discussion, that there is not a single thought about protecting the informant. Not surprisingly, British conservatives do not support such ideas. I find it interesting that he might explain to us: Why is the European Council to care about these matters, the European Council that deals with human rights, our rights in the continent? Why does it want to deal specifically with the protection of informants, how does it affect the informants, and how does it affect the citizens of the continent?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u31	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this input from what I've been through. Senator. The European Council has handled the rights of informants in several reports. The report I referred to, which was presented to the Dutch senator's initiative at the source of information on the NSA, U.S. intelligence services, and has proved to have stored information and collected information, not just about the United States, but about all of us almost who are dealing with the websites, Google, and what it is now. This has caused great anxiety for all liberal people, both in the United States and in Europe. Then there is the other, and that's exactly what it is. A senator says that the Council of Europe allows human rights to take place, that something that has been taking place in the daylights and turns on our human rights is rooted in Snowden's Snowdens. That's why this Dutch senator had been running for open meetings with Snowden. He had asked for a representative of a secret agency in Britain and the United States to attend a similar meeting at the European Council, open meetings, to discuss these matters. The question had never been answered. There was then a closed meeting on these matters with members of Parliament and the Council of Europe. Nor were the answers answered, and the small answers were so addressed to rejection. It's in the light that the discussion was about individuals like Edward Snowden, what we could do to protect people who would come out of information that cut us off on human rights. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator's answers. We are discussing our wishes here that the protection of informants will be placed in the financial market laws. We are in this business discussion about the financial market here and now because it got a little out of hand, and there happened things that had very serious and far - reaching consequences that I'm not going to cross here. But as shown in the case of a man. paritaprevir The Ögmundur - year - old son of Jónasson is being discussed - in the Council of Europe, he was involved in the discussions that protected the informant Edward Snowden. It can be said that the protection of informers is not only important when it comes to information from financial companies but also information that the State is gathering or its institutions because the State has a monopoly on violence, the State has a monopoly on many factors that it needs to have, but sometimes it is not visible to governments. Moreover, it is important that courageous individuals be enabled to alert others, and hopefully this will draw us closer to government domination, which may not be obvious until we are exhausted. So I'd like to ask you why. Senator: We are discussing the financial legislation, allowing it to exist for some time, but it does not consider it important that, apart from it, we have such laws generalized on a country that provides informing protection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u33	V.E.G. President. I want to agree with what. A senator in charge of this last point. Although we are primarily talking about financial companies now and the possible protection of informants in the financial world, in financial companies, this is something that needs to be taken into account by the general administration of public interest. There is one aspect that I find worthy to consider in this regard. We are talking about protection and the right to protect when a person reveals wrongdoing. From that point of view, it is a short time for others whose duty is to inform us of wrongdoing because if you are protected, the duty to inform the person about wrongdoing is to shift. Maybe this is what needs to be done, that we wake up society, that we raise financial institutions, and all the people there who are aware, not only of their rights but also of their duty.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u34	V.E.G. President. There's been some good discussions here yesterday and today. There's only a few views I'd like to express here. In other words, we are discussing a bill to correct the legal laws of violations and violations of financial markets, etc. It's a tape worm where several law columns are being tightened and it's just as changing the right to punish lawyers for violating the law here. There's been an increase in fines, and there's been a fine review, and I'm not going to go to the reading much more, but the new word is that they're being checked for the lawyers. Just toward the end of that time, in March 2007, the law was changed, but no suggestions were made on the possibility that fines were permitted. Now eight years and one financial crisis later, we are finally getting this into the legislation. I hope it doesn't take another crash to get us a informant's protection. I want to guess, chief. President, that in recent years there has been a vast improvement in financial legislation. There are members of both Parliaments who have only been there for less than two years, and some of us have not been on committees that have specifically discussed these matters. It's a very complex setting, as is true of many other things in our society. Under these are a number of legal columns, and changes have been made that are difficult to overlook. I have to admit, this is the most uncomfortable group of paintings that you can't quite handle. But there are some helps, and we senators have various ways to try to make sure that we are doing the right thing. I'd like to mention in this context that the Office for Economics and Economic Relations has given it away. A fall in which a budget for financial labour was made at the 144th legislature. It is known as a financial reformer. It shows that these improvements and the changes being made are due to the many defects identified during the collapse of the financial system in 2008 and were brought to light in the report of the World Council Commission, Ministers and Writings of Iceland's Council. Then there have been reforms based on a review of European Protocols, which are related to the implementation of the EEA Convention. Some of these European regulations have been changed due to an international agreement, e.g. ..of the Basel Committee. Thus, the financial market operates in a very complex environment. It may be said that there has been an intense development in financial products, and because moral hazard is high, the management of funds and yield can be stagnant when high risks are taken, people have seen reasons to create complex regulations, clear and strict rules to follow and clear regulations about punishment. What was revealed when we had to intervene in the judicial system in a number of cases related to financial violations? They needed to train workers who had the ability to study things because they are complex and require special knowledge and, of course, were consulted by people who had that knowledge. Since then, the courts have had to adjust, and judges needed to take in knowledge and counseling in order to discuss the matter. I'd like to allow myself to claim that at the General Assembly, there was not an adequate understanding of the weaknesses of the system. It may have been for individual members, but people in general did not realize that the situation was too difficult. That's not to say, "I'm not going to say, " I'm not going to say, 'cause I'm going to say, 'I'm willing to admit, as I did at the beginning of my speech,'that it's not easy to throw an anger on and keep on the rules of the financial market. Therefore, those who understand what is happening should be viewed. Who really understand the financial market? There are those who operate on him, who discern what is happening, who are doers of that market, and who have far better insight than anyone else in what is going on there. That is exactly what is stated on page 18. 3 of this fine report, published by the Ministry, by the President's permission: Despite improved financial surveillance and a much more rigid legal approach than the collapse of the financial system, it is necessary to keep in mind that legislation in this field will never prevent financial instability unless it will only be tailored to financial services so narrowly provided that it will not be able to look after its primary role. As we know, setting laws - I mean, the law is often broken. Of course, the best thing to do is that the legislation is not too rigid but that it falls into law. This very thing is pointed out that it is very difficult to contain this market, that it contains a lot of money, complex expertise, and that we live in a very complex international community, where there is a need for all to have types of financial products in order for business to take place and do so. So it is of importance that those who work in the system, understand the system, and know what is going on there, those who have a sense of responsibility and moral worth, have a measure of protection and security if they choose to reveal what is going on there. There has been a number of discussions here, worries about that, but there is no criticism of the content of the bill. This may be the case during the development of the committee, as often happens, with adjustments and refinements, but we senators are concerned that one important factor is missing in the bill. That is what I have been quoting in the preceding article on page 5 of this magazine. 19 on the strength of a proposal to be employed, as shown in the bill, to see if there is any reason to take out the divulge and whether there is a reason to give surveillance clearance to question the amount of fines. The rollback is here, but not the informant's protection. You might now say that there is something working on this at the European level, but there is no reason to wait, for they too can be updated. Examples may be looked for. There are senators here. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson referred to role models from other countries. I don't want the least, sweetheart. President, stress the importance of this in the conduct of the council on the matter. What is the next issue on the program? They're supposed to give the highest. The secretary of finance is authorized to increase his influence on the part of the State in the financial system. The bill we will discuss in the following afternoon will consider how to carry these items and be authorized to sell them. Of course, this is a matter of course, but it is not clear enough, in the opinion of many here. If we think of a study of the privateisation of the banks at the beginning of the 21st century, it was agreed at the end of the last term, then this investigation has not started, but it is a bill to provide the same categories for the private quality of the banks. But this is not the will to set in order the protection of the informants. Speaking of ◯whistlebwers in English, this rings certain bells, it whistles to whistle when it is being increased political power over the financial system, the part of which is designed to own on behalf of the state. At the same time, there is no desire to ensure the public and those interested in providing direct attention to the financial system. There is no increased confidence in the system by adding protection to the informants. I want to end up with you, chief. President, let's hear it. The Economic and Business Committee to thoroughly examine these issues and not provide the bill until this directive has been implemented. This is fundamental to building trust in the system and to prevent them from accepting everyone for business and actions that are not appropriate in financial systems and in order to threaten the interests of an entire society. We know that story, and we don't want to repeat it. We are to do everything within our power so that financial information is as transparent as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u35	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I agree with all the major factors that came out there. Hv. A senator points out that in the collapse and in the years following collapse, and today there is a limited understanding of the Lawgiver's weaknesses in this system. I think you're right. We will need to rely to a large extent on those who have a clear understanding of the system and how it works. Then we come to the importance of informers who work within the system and need a more free card than they now have to promote mismanagement information to the public. Hv. In the case of the council, a senator encourages a change in this bill to be made. Counts 'em out. In view of the views that have been presented in the discussion on this issue, would a senator have some difficulty in saying that such work could work safely?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u36	V.E.G. President. It has to be said, as it is, that during this discussion the less part members of the council have been more than the highest. The minister of finance spoke for the case and answered his questions. He did not state direct opposition to protection from informants but pointed out that further work was being done in the European Union. I would have liked to hear from some representative of the greater part of the Economic and Business Committee on this matter, on this very point. It would have been a good thing for that to happen. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson testified that the head of the Economic and Business Committee is pleased to agree with the smaller part of a financial market. I hope, therefore, that there will be an understanding of this in the Committee. It is natural to begin with that members of the Committee who did the work as the bill is based on a financial and business committee and will review how they handled this case, as it was one of the committee's projects to review this matter specifically. This needs to be done well, since the legislation must be made so that it will benefit from those involved, otherwise we can place individuals in a very serious position. I won't say it's no big deal to do this, but we're not supposed to open up to political possession or direct political elements and not protect those who work within the system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u37	V.E.G. President. I want to start by thanking you for these answers. Finally, I want to go inside. A senator, by her attitude on what I brought up earlier, discussed the rights to protect informers. Does the senator agree with me as to the fact that there is a short step in the duty to inform us? Would laws to protect informers likely set fire to society and arouse in humans the awareness that they were obliged to be informed about wrongdoing?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u38	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I think that's exactly the way it is. Of course, that will arouse obligation. Let's just take one financial firm, it doesn't have to be any more, that it has been worked in a way that is criminal and it works against the interests of the company, others in the financial market, and, of course, still others in the community, because it usually has an extensive impact when something happens in a financial market, the natural question will arise when it has been discovered that something has gone seriously wrong that there were individuals who had information and should have reported it. It will, of course, increase the awareness that silence is acceptable, and the person may become involved in this misconduct because he did not say anything. They're working with such a rich interests. It is an enormous sum, and it is very difficult for an individual to rise up against such things. We should not belittle it, even if it may seem from outside that someone should now do something. With a lot of money behind them, powerful individuals are often at work. This may mean social rejection for people and economic trauma. It's more than just saying. The preparations must be made carefully so that people can live up to the responsibility that protection would involve. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u39	Mr. President. This bill focuses on harmonizing and explaining violations repairs. For example, the highest financial benefits of government fines will be raised, and the decision to govern will be added to the economic gain of the offender - the more economic gain of the offender, the greater the fines can be - and in some case may also be broken in prison for up to six years. So there is a hard - hitting penalty for violating the law, the penalty for violating the law. What is missing, on the other hand, - and the highest. A financial minister called for the opinion of a committee working in the preparation of the bill - a protection from informers, that's what is missing. This is in regard to punishment for wrongdoing, the lack of protecting those who expose offenses. It is only after we have the law that we will have a much more complete system; we will have a system in which if a man violates, it is more likely that he will be punished according to these laws. That's what's missing, that's one of the missing things. Another: It's the management board that's supposed to enforce these laws and make decisions on fines, and on various grounds, as the bill says: The provision of these fines should include consideration for all relevant events, including the following: a. fracture severity, b. how long a fracture has been going on, c. The guilt of the offender in the counseller, d. the financial status of the wrongdoer, e. benefit from fractures or loss of weight by fracture, f. whether fractures resulted in third party loss, g. any possible systemic impact of the fracture, h. the cooperation of the wrongdoer, i. the prior fractures and the recurrence of multiple fractures All of these factors should influence the level of guilt. However, when it comes to individuals, the minimum value is 100 yous. K., the maximum fine is some higher from what used to be and up to 65 million. If it's legal, it's a minimum of 500 fars. K. and can then be up to 10% of the total number of his last year or 10% of the total annual management year of the kit due to the implementation of fractures for the benefit of another legal entity in the kit or another legal entity in the kit has benefited from the offense. Therefore, it is the management board that should evaluate all of these factors, and this is the minimum it can compare with, and this is the limit to which it can take the basis for fines. What do we see when it comes to SEC and fines about those who violate the legal code they're supposed to monitor? For example, we see in Therama; they worked for many years without having permission to do their job, collecting from a certain group of people. What did the FBI Board do? It was just a hit: Shame, and now you have to pay the amount of money that costs the three years'work permit. So there was no penalty for three years in breaking the law. All they had to do was pay what they had to pay for it anyway. Therefore, having the management board make that decision is a crime in the system today. I don't trust the SEC board to succeed when it comes to enforcing laws relating to financial companies in Iceland, to provide them with support and surveillance in this regard, I just don't trust them to do so well. This is therefore a violation that could be corrected in the treatment of the Committee and the Council of this matter, i.e. ... toimprove the law how the severity of the offense increases the fines so that the decision does not end at the level of the FESI board, how the severity of the offense increases the guilt, how the offender's financial situation raises the fines - all of these factors mentioned in the bill, and I read the above. It is one thing the council might do: Regarding the informants - the highest. According to the secretary of finance, he will wait, listen to this committee he has appointed, to install in this full package the protection of the informants because they are working on these criteria in Sweden and Denmark rather than in Norway. However, there are many good forms of exposure in these lands. They're good in Britain, especially good in Sweden, like a dog. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has pointed out in his speech, so it is possible to begin with some kind of start to ensure protection of the informants. Today, a group of Hearts for the Future and Pirata have proposed a contingency proposal for a informant that could be approved at this council if it were willing. We could go hard on that job. But there are very good laws in other countries, and we do not necessarily have to wait to start such a job. It would be possible to win something like that. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson mentioned, so we'd be on our way along with this, on the committee. I don't think it's going to be done, but it would be possible if you wanted to. Let us consider what happens when it comes to protecting them. The difference, however, with protection from media sources, is that a reporter needs protection on the grounds that he is not informed who he is. However, a informant may often have to come up with a name, and sometimes it is easy to find out who he is, if he has information on the law and reveals it, because there may not be so many who have the information discussed. Thus, informants must have a different kind of protection, rather than sources of the media. It may even affect their financial situation, their loss of job, etc. It became very clear - at a conference held that the initiative of some Ministry, probably the Ministry of Economic and Business, and the Contestant Agency in the fall of 2013 - is that if they set up a good environment and generate incentives to reveal laws and tax frauds, they need to consider the financial future of those who have to reveal something; because it is at stake, people might lose. There has been a very good discussion on the subject and the importance of ensuring the protection of a informant in this regard. In the final analysis, what we want by protecting the informants in this and for all other offenses, it is that at the same time - when they know that the more likely it is to become aware of their offenses, they are less likely to commit a crime at first - writing it as a lawbreaker, while encouraging those who want to go forward to do so by providing them with a number of protection to do so. It's like a frame of law we want to create. I'm just going to review what GRECO has said about these things in general. GRECO has encouraged countries who have not taken steps to validate a contract to implement measures to protect employees who present information in good faith in public interest, including Iceland. According to Iceland's response, public mail has been sent to the Ministry of finance, in February 2006, with guidelines for the good conduct of government workers with reference to Article 14. track No. 70/1996, on the rights and duties of the government, and on the guidance of eight teams. The main point of this guide is the duties of employees. However, the last section of the counsel says that a state worker, who is well - faithd, comes with information about corruption, incursive, or unjustified behavior in a legitimate way, is in no way deserving of it. In view of the discussion, the responsibility, transparency, information leakage, and corruption referred to above and discussed in the appendix, the committee - no, I have come to some part of the world scene. These are the points taken together, but I don't know where I'm in that dot there. The point crystallizes there: As the situation is now, and this is 2006, this is different when it comes to government employees, government employees. They have no sense of it because there are so many legal columns - where their right to appear and give information, or their duty to keep their mouth shut - a cross and a skunk in the system. So it is very important for public employees and companies to take it together in a collective law code, and that is what Birt's interpretation proposal for the future and Pirates is about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u40	Mr. President. As if I'd told you why. I have been waiting a long time to listen to this talk. I know why. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson has studied very much the issues I feel most sorry for in this bill, but these are laws related to the protection of informants, sources, informers. What I want to ask you is why. The senator is about how he feels this protection should be provided in our legal procedures. In order to make myself clear, I'm wondering if there should be one inside of this bill, which, hopefully, will be a law, special laws for the informant's protection, or should this be a holistic law column? I thought it was one of the people who carried the bill as bad as they were. A senator pointed to, and it was the chairman of a council of Bjart's future, huh? paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, that there should be a collective law code, and it might not be necessary to have laws on such matters in terms of financial institutions and financial markets. Hv. A senator must have noticed that the bill we are discussing here involves changes in neither less than twelve laws. However, it did. A senator of all the best of the people here has spoken of the difference between the need for protection on one side, those who feel compelled to communicate through the media and have to have anonymous names, those who, in private markets, feel compelled to transmit information but often become the nature of the case. And then I ask why. A member of Parliament: Does he feel that there may be special laws on financial institutions for the protection of such individuals as I think they may be in Britain?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u41	Mr. President. Of course, accepting a complete law code that guarantees exposure is good. It just doesn't seem to be on a government program, so the future and the Piras have begun to do that work. She'll take some time, however, this bill is already there. If we're going to start using these increased penalties to create greater incentives for humans to avoid breaking off and also, if they're still breaking off, they're punished much more in order to repeat themselves, then it's important to put some kind of cautionary principle here, taking it into consideration now. As I mentioned earlier, I am not sure that it will be done. V.E.G. A minister has made a measure of protection from it, seems to me, saying, "I put this before the committee now that it should be considered, and the committee said it. He has assigned some of our responsibilities if we just speak out politically in matters of this matter. However, the committee can do so, and we should continue to speak for it. It would be good if we could find some good solution to do what I hope to do. A senator will agree with me, he may make some good points about it, he knows better the process, and what it is possible to do with legislation in the processing of the council. If there were any provisions that could be inserted that would immediately begin to protect the informants as informers of a break in financial market, this would be for the better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u42	Mr. President. If I recall correctly, there are two types of contracts that put us under obligation to promote law protection against those who reveal information that looks to the greater good. It's the GRECO deal, and it's the UNCAC deal, and it reminds me that its name, which is the United Nations Convention, is the best I know that we are in it. He bluntly says that those nations that are his party should bring about the rights of such a law. I'd like to ask you why. A senator, because he knows it better than I do, he made a far and clear case on the GRECO deal, don't you think it's the right thing to remember that deal was mainly up to public employees? It reminds me, but if it does. A senator would then know that I would like him to tell me about it. I think anything that looks back on this is good. We don't need to invent the bike, they've been invented abroad. In fact, there is a creative form, both on the part of the Council of Europe and a very similar guide on setting up such laws approved by the European Parliament in 2013 by the fall, if I recall correctly. So there are examples. We can look there. Some of the laws I have been referring to are not precisely tailored to the financial market needs, e.g. The Swedish law is very extensive. It includes general protection against informants and those who present such information that could possibly harm them and provide a very strong protection concerning anonymousness, as I think I've reported here in one of my speeches. Even the government cannot know their names if they choose it themselves. Doesn't count them what they are. Senator that it's true, if these songs are to be handled now, take at least Would there be only imperfect laws? [[The president calls.]] Yet, they are better than none, and the way into the future has already been determined.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u43	Mr. President. Yes, I couldn't agree with that. And then I'll ask again for the help of who. A senator in what they can do on the committee and do it professionally at least, so if the more part rejects it, it is some kind of victory because it can be seen as if they were to continue and are going on, they create more pressure on the future. There is one good thing for those who work in a financial market to know that in the future there will be strong informant laws in Iceland. It's not too many years. It should immediately create for those who experience some type of temptation within them not to be tempted. It's very good for everyone to live in such an environment that limits the temptation to commit suicide, since the temptations are many, of course. That is precisely why there are many rules, that the person who observes the financial concerns of a company does not also have the program to protect the company's money, try not to have it on the same hand, just to reduce the problem of temptation. You would rather not invite staff to sit up with such a temptation. I know that the future will mean more transparency, stronger protection from informers, and such factors because that is what the times call for. When I say the time wave, I'm talking about that after the information revolution, people's values have changed their priorities. People have access to information, so it's normal to have access to information, and they feel that it's nothing more than information that comes up on the table, so this is the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u44	V.E.G. President. I would like to begin by saying what has been said here and discuss what here is needed to protect the informant and be assured. I want to agree that, like what I think. A senator said earlier, that it has both the power to influence those who consider illegals and makes it more likely that those who have information would communicate with them. That's what I wanted to say at the beginning of my answer. What I wanted to ask you. paritaprevir In his speech, Jón Ólafsson spoke of his lack of trust in the SEC to enforce it well enough to place strong guilt or enough penalties on wrongdoers, pointing to the fines of Drama. I thought this was an interesting point. So I'd like to ask you why. A senator: How does he see it, which system would be better to achieve, can we bring satisfying results in the abundance of wood that would be available to those who commit a sin? Which way is it hard? A senator in what would be better?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u45	Mr. President. Yes, given the occasion, as the senator mentioned, I did not trust the SEC to monitor that financial companies are not violating the laws that the FDA is about to observe that they do not violate. And when they've been investigated after they've been involved in a financial market at the time of the crime, they've made use of the sources in law to some extent that have a discouraging effect on continued fractions, as I came into my speech. What you could do is get into the law right away, as I mentioned in the talk, some kind of premise that says, depending on the severity of the offense, or the extent of the situation, etc. increase their guilt by 1 percent. There's one percentage up there, it's got to do with up to a maximum of 10% of some kind of financial basis for the company. It's just a peak, it doesn't tell you how to raise the points mentioned on the bill. I don't trust the SEC, when the law is just sources, but not obliged to raise, to do that. There's something that could be put into the law. Yeah, there's also one thing, see. The late bank has all sorts of tools and had all kinds of tools in the vaccination season to get in and grab on it. It was made up of an open meeting in the Economic and Business Committee of the Money Policy Committee not the last one, but the last one, when I asked. Then they found out that nobody wanted to take the ball out of the party, they would have been ashamed to do it, etc. Thus, they are not using the tools, not the Navy, not the SEC, or the sources they even have in the law. There must be something in the law, such as obliging them to do it. In the case of these laws, it could be done, as I say, by putting it in the law how guilt rises according to the severity of offenses, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u46	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I think that this is precisely related to the wide debate that has been here today, perhaps involving society in these matters, that we as a society simply make stronger demands that those who violate in this field often roll natural Gagnical sums, that we as a society demand that those who have become guilty of breaking up against it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator if I understand him correctly that he feels that this must be written clearly into the law. And when it comes to the amount, it counts. A senator that it is not enough to keep this interval to a minimum or to a climax? I get it. In fact, for those who will then act on the law, do we need to have some other guidelines? Or am I just mistaken for the senator's arrival?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u47	Mr. President. It can be minimal and peak, and it can be normal under some circumstances. On the other hand, if you have a minimum, and the judge does not have a duty to raise an offense on the basis of the severity of the offense, courts have some part of it, for example, etc., and the management of the FDA is politically ordered to make these decisions, it has only been shown that total penalties are in violations of law. Another example of this is the United Nations Department, which appeared at an open meeting in 2013, reminds me, where the Commission's office came and I asked her, because it is clearly presented in the law on the SEC, at any rate as it were, that their main objective is to monitor the financial and financial law of finance, i.e. that they be carried out. Yet, the manager had been talking about the goal of maintaining financial stability. I asked, and it's all natural, and I blogd about it in my own time. But do you see, if you have these two goals, financial stability, or to enforce the financial law, which is to be replaced? If enforcing financial law can mean financial instability, are you to be held? It didn't seem completely clear. So, I don't have much confidence in the Agency for a given reason. Then there's two important things, we just attach it to the law, it's possible now at least to put the laws on how these fines rise, which ties up the hands of the Commission, to fine a higher rate according to the severity and profit of the crime, etc. And another thing. A senator mentioned that it is so important that the informants will be given this protection, receiving in because of the public's involvement. [[The president calls.]] The informants have become heroes today. [[The president calls.]] It is a fight for the minds and hearts of the people of the world. They have become heroes, and the common people want their way and greater protection for them. That's what's to come.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u48	Mr. President. This has been a very informative discussion, which has been taking place here on this excellent bill as the Supreme Court. Economic and economic ministers have proposed changes in legal requirements for repairs in financial market violations. I think it may be said that everyone is a clear object of this bill. We are trying to build into the financial market tools that are likely to trust it and to protect against the ability to perform behavior that may bring it back, as happened in 2008. To this end, the highest. The secretary of finance has suggested a number of things that are very looking for improvement. In fact, it was fun to listen to one another. A senator yesterday said that it would be informative to see the Independence Party take the lead in increasing the surveillance of the financial market. I must feel sorry for a member of the council because this may not be done by the independent party. The bill has two main objectives, one on the other, to build defenses into the financial market while the commitments of the EEA Convention put on our shoulders, so to form when it was held in a speech yesterday that it would be great for the Independence Party to accept the guilt, because it's a new statement in Icelandic rights, it's not the initiative of the Independence Party. These are the rules set out by the European Union and we need to record through the EEA Convention. The speakers have suggested that there is one poem, large, on this fine bill, and that it is missing regulations on the informants. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson made it clear that there may be a difference between cases where people want to present information on illegal behavior, possibly leading to a very successful outcome for the community where they appear, and this requires different protection. He's absolutely right. In some cases where information is not linked to a financial market, e.g. About the harmful ways of various manufacturers, why. paritaprevir As an example of a chemical manufacturer, the 100 - year - old Jónasson's 100 - year - olds often need and insists on anonymousness. In Sweden, I have described a system that is literally so intense with anonymousness that it means even the highest. the Swedish government's advisers to find out who it is that presents the information. There are often other ways in which financial institutions and financial companies are involved. It sometimes calls for a name. We have a recent example of this. If Iceland and I are not involved in investing in information that was created through leaks in which the relevant people were involved, they would protect the source of this information. This is important to bear in mind. The bill is building many new defenses that should prevent humans from taking too much risks, either unintentional or deliberately, or as a means of enrichment. In many ways these new defenses are largely protected, such as. by increasing the number of fines you can place on an individual basis. On the one hand, it is a great step to pass fines so that the legal guardian who becomes aware of violations can be fines up to 10% of the quality of the last year. Also, I find it very significant that in the currency market law, a warrant can be passed on to up to 10% of the roll, even though no one particular person associated with the company will be exposed to the violation. All of these factors have the power to relax or reduce the risk of humans, at least By purpose, this law violates. But, hey. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson's argument was very strong that in the case of informants who are protected, this results in new protection, resulting in a new feeling of relief. At the very end, Mr. President, I'd like to inform you that, for example. In 2013 the British financier's financier's strategy was received in no less than 3 of you. A suggestion for harmful and supposed inaccurate behavior, so it's more important than that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u49	Mr. President. I'm just going to continue with our conversation. paritaprevir Össur of Skarphéðinsson's son from earlier on. If it is somehow possible to obtain some kind of protection of the informant in this bill, which is really a tapeworm - isn't that what it's called when a person gathers changes in a very many laws at once? - and especially in such a way that they have a very good example. A member of the United Kingdom has specifically mentioned about the financial market, since there would be natural launch immediately if it were too extensive - if there was ever a chance to get it into law, even though it would not be a perfect protection for all informers than we would be at any point, now is the time for this round. Well, I understand that, considering the project and the work force here at the council, there's a need to get started on this project and bring a new proposal immediately to the Committee before the case begins after the 1st. I'm assuming the case goes to the Economic and Business Committee. What does that count? A senator of this and the ability to obtain some sort of protection of the informants now in this round, especially after his conversations on a number of issues at the back of the road. Chairman of the Committee, Frosti Sigurjónsson?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u50	Mr. President. I believe that there is a possibility, even though this bill is intended to be won quickly and end in this spring for which I believe it is possible to enter the bill with broad principles that require the protection of the informants. I'm sure with the help of a man like the former curator of the law firm, huh? paritaprevir The armoury of the Brynjar of Níelsson, who has great knowledge in this matter, could be nailed to such a broad rule. However, I do not think it is as deep as it is in Britain. Of course I don't know what it is, but in the United Kingdom, there are at least Three government agencies involved in this field. A few years ago, Britain's financing, called Whistlebwer Program, set up a very specific exposure of the frequency of the indications. I've already said what. So, in the 2013's, 3,000 indications were received by a senator from earlier times. Another English institution, with permission of President Finic Containment (FCA), i.e. A financial market setting, will only monitor services in financial sectors. After she first established a set of rules for which to present indications without being damaged, the number of indications increased by 2/3. Then, Serious Fraud Office, in English, received 4700 indications from January 2012 to June 2013. Not long since a panel of good banking practices proposed a number of changes in the rules designed to protect informers, e.g. prevents the exposure to them from blocking their career or leading to disfellowshipping. All were recorded by the patrols.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u51	I thank the senator for this review. I'll go over it and we'll continue talking. Now it's up to a committee, possibly this week. It must begin as soon as possible to see if there are any points to the protection of the informants in that room because there will always be temptation. When men fall into temptation, all will be damaged, including the one who fell into temptation. It's no fun. My mother once told me when I was a young story about a man who had stolen from a company and had got away with it and he would have committed suicide. That was in my mouth. It's bad for everyone, it's bad for the Americans, it's bad for consumers, it's often bad for companies, and it's bad for the individuals who commit crimes. All these fractions can cause financial collapse, which can be bad for the economy, can be bad for the political system, which can lead to revolution, resulting in extremeism. It hurts everybody. Hence, it is imperative that we work fast and well and use every opportunity we have to enter the protection of unveiled sources, the protection of the informants in the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u52	Mr. President. It's up to a new age. They are beginning to understand the benefits of using such tactics. Men have long looked to the media as a very important tool for maintenance. It's just in the last few years that people are beginning to realize how much access can involve in such means of making a contribution. It's got a lot of muscle. It's got a lot of muscle. A senator reasoned best in a speech earlier today. These issues have taken place since 2013. I dare not say how many countries have now adopted some kind of protection law in their informants than 2013, for my information is more and less since then, for example, 16 of the 27 then European Union countries had adopted some of these laws. Of course, they were as good as any, but they all mattered. We also know that over time, informants have often had many problems. They have a sweet fit, as Snowden did in another field. In companies, this has led to a number of restrictions, not directly fired, but in some cases, that have prevented them from getting normal progress. What's so cool about these British rules is that the highest executives in the field of services in the financial market and those handling money are responsible for ensuring that there is a policy in companies to promote and ensure that the person it does not receive punishment and that it does not disintegration it. That's what matters. It is sometimes said that the British have the most advanced financial system in the world. They're in the longest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u53	V.E.G. President. I just want to enter this discussion at the end of the council because I was absent yesterday and that's what I've been discussing. It is being discussed with the violation of financial war markets and should be delighted that this bill has come up and that men are trying to break down the rules in this regard, not to profit. Experience tells us that the social experiment in Iceland, when Iceland was going to become the financial center of the universe, and a large part of it was meant to be to eliminate obstacles, reduce legal boundaries, increase freedom, allow financial institutions, banks, and others to have as freely an environment, became quite expensive for our Icelandic community with the expected bank crash and the consequences. We will see, then, all the judicial cases that have followed a fall in which people have discussed why the other was, and this has happened, and then they have been called to account. Often, this charge is difficult because the law was so open, freedom was much, and it was permitted to do things that are not covered by law. I think it's possible to say that in Iceland and Europe, people have come to realize that this environment is no longer working. The rules need to be tightened and explained. I don't think any Icelander wants the old environment back, though incredibly many points actually to that, from the firm of these laws, to be brought back to the same environment, i.e. The possibility of making a profit by various means. At that time, there was tremendous motivation, a powerful offerer, a business bonus. We had our business banks and, on the other hand, our stock business, all under the same hat. They were doing their fruits, making valuable stocks, doing just what is being considered in the courts now, even making people feel free to make money for their banks, in order to obtain stocks, by lending to stock markets, even by hand. A man now went through the deCode case at his time, where suddenly a lot of tensions arose around trying to increase his profits, both individuals and businesses, by buying shares in deCode and people taking loans, when they just didn't sell their assets, to try to buy shares. They bought stocks to make money, borrowed from loans, did not have to contribute any of their own money, and the loan was guaranteed only by hand. After that experience, the banks decided for themselves that it was not permitted to lend unless they were exposed to 10% of the stock value. But after they were privatized, handed out to the best friends in 2002, everything went to the same old place. Shortly thereafter, three, four, five years later, the stock market was reimbursed. I did not realize this until I attended a large meeting in which the Sisuna Fund was being discussed. When informed at the meeting that four or six persons had borrowed $1 billion to buy stock money in the savings fund, he was exhausted. In fact, it was not just stock funding at Mystún; it was in companies whose company's Sparour Fund was a party, the Bank of Savings, and what were the names of all the companies. One billion, no responsibilities, nothing of their own money, and the hand was just stock money, the person could return it, and he could not lose his business even if everything went wrong. This happens at the same time that adults called and said: "I see here that you have 10 million on the bank accounts, why don't you bring them into stocks? There was better yields, more money could be made, and when people were in trouble with cash, or rather told to support the property of the relevant financial companies, they went into progress on these stocks and went so far as to hire companies or groups to call older citizens. Of course, it was heartbreaking in 2008 to meet people and bankers who had experienced perhaps days before the collapse, at the beginning of October 2008, who were involved in putting in even entire janitors or some depositor, long - term savings, into the stock market, which was just the bank stock that was supposed to be the best guarantee, and losing it in one night at the time of the crash. Therefore, there is good reason to enact firmer laws around this market, strengthening the defenses we have to prevent this happening again. I don't think we should be shy trying to make the rules clear. This is related to the other smell contained in another bill, when it is spoken of as exorbitant or authorized, and is considered to be a reason for it and the need for it, etc. You don't really understand the discussion, considering the experiences we have, because it was the business counters that received these proposals, they got some way over to the bank in the whole, sometimes the business business was run by a lot, but the business levels, or the stock trades, were actually stealing all the profits from the relevant sources. Hence, the bonuses were always very unfair. They were given to the large stock markets or other stock trades and received a percentage, even if the trade had gone down in a year or earlier and the value for the bank was nothing or vice versa, negative. Yet, this made a petition. There you pour money according to ways you don't want to see it again, in Icelandic or foreign banking systems. The hazard ratio was high and this is an attempt to resist it. As the last few talks have shown, the idea of the bill being proficient and the goal of the bill is to promote the Commission's instruments in an effort to build trust in the financial market. It is tried to take decisive action and plan to create a more stable financial market. All that must be supported. One of the conditions that have been much under discussion, and I think people must take very seriously on the Committee is about those who report or reveal certain business practices at banks. I remember that when we were working out the crisis after the collapse of the bank, I heard from bankers, including In Luxembourg, the Icelanders there report in part what happened there, but they say that they had no chance of showing up under the name because if they realized bank function in a country like Luxembourg, they would have signed out of all their work in that country. That was the rules. They were to choose to provide information without knowing what it would be done or what it would be done for; at the same time, they could know that they would be laid off in the bank and that they could have no opportunity to work in financial matters in that country. This environment, of course, does not work because no matter where it is in the public and business sectors, the general obligation should rest on the cities that if they witness illegal or flagrant offenses, they should reveal them, inform them. These rules apply to various acts of violence, sexual abuse, child neglect, etc. If real bankers observe the abuse of power, they must have the opportunity to draw attention to it and to be protected, so that they do not pay to draw attention to the violations of the law. Of course, this is difficult, and it is not easy to make rules that do not involve it without possible for certain men to accept it, but it must be done in a way that will give them a chance to do so. That's what we need, that under no circumstances, in the name of the bank secrets, or because of the risk of being judged, the authorities are responsible for taking part in the crimes in which they have committed them, and that they cannot, under no circumstances, in the name of banks, or because of the risk of being judged, revealed the activities of breaking up. One thing that matters to me is that the Icelanders take a very sharp stand and fight with those who want to ban tax waters, who want to ban activity in countries where people protect all personal information, even if it's a violation of the law, and make it a matter of national, national, national, or national spending to protect men against authorities in any other country, that they can escape with their money, put them in place, hide them, and take part in community payment in their country. It's come up over and over again, even at the biggest banks that have guided people to avoid paying taxes. There is a growing discussion in the European Union about forbidding it and standing up against it officially and Iceland is supposed to be in the lead in it. It's the interests of citizens, it's our personal interest that they give their taxes and their duties to the community and so participate in the combination, but not that they digest themselves out as a special-oriented group that can hide and take no part in society's affairs. This is part of what you would have wanted to see in the following of the laws presented here. In total, you rejoice at the bill and the hope that it will be done well on a committee. This has been shown in the preceding talks, in the exchange of words. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson's son and what. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson's son, though more specific laws on the protection of the informants, can be added at the end end of the section to ensure that this is included in the discussion of the committee so that we can strengthen these laws by means of them. At the same time, I think it is important that in a report or a committee study, the Icelandic government urges them to take part in an effort to protect themselves from taxes and to take up an organized and hard fight against having money hidden in other countries or to avoid taxation and to enjoy protection in some part of the world. This is what I wanted to come into the discussion with. There's a lot of EU rules in most places, but I'm sure that we're not going to let ourselves be the first person in making the law clearer so that they could control these laws, contrary to what was so terrible to us in our social experiment when we planned to eliminate all the rules and surveillance and everything was supposed to be so free and the market to control them, with the terrible plaques that the Icelandic population suffered in the 2008 collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u54	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur nature of Hannesson for the talk and, as I believe, the end of this discussion is to review and review the history and experience of the Icelanders because they have little order on the financial market. I think it's very important, we can't forget that there was a lack of order among other things. Already, voices in the community that are speaking for less regulations are being sounded. Happily, though, there is still another reference to factors that might be considered, such as the lack of the protection of those who betray wrongdoing, there is a bill here. I'd like to ask you what. In his view of what was presented during discussions or objections earlier - i.e. that the F.A. has the authority to fines, but that this is not an obligation - that this is too mild of speech and will likely not be followed up so that those who become guilty will have to pay fines and that the penalty applies to them. I'm asking why. A senator believes that this would require a wording to ensure penalties.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u55	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for the counter-sponsored. I hear we share the belief that the principle was very weak and could not be benefited from strengthening it. The answer to a question why. So the senator will agree that I think there may be a clearer issue, so that guilt would be directly expected and done a little vigorously. There will always be endless debates about opinion, etc., and then there will be ways to avoid the use of fines and start protecting companies or individuals with them. What always comes up in the discussion of these matters is the difficult terms of freedom and personal protection. Freedom is something we all love and want to have, but it is often abused to do almost anything. Some say freedom goes no further than that of the nearest one, i.e. that men do not limit others'freedom. In this context, people have often wanted to have the freedom of business to the point that almost anything can be done. When something is wrong with personal protection or a failure to make it reach those who have committed something far above what protects the interests of a common user, i.e. ... thebuyman, at the bank. It's usually that it's these big parties, those taking chances, and those who are playing with money, as I would like to say, that they have the personal protection, even though they were abusing their position to get more money than the rule should have been expected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u56	Madam President. I recommend a bill for new legislation on the handling and sale of the state's property in financial companies that will combine the overall rules in this field. The bill is primarily responsible for changing the legal requirements of the state's Bankiscation, as this institution is expected to be laid down. It may be stated that in the current U.S. Federal Bankisitation Act of 2009, the Agency should submit no later than five years after its establishment, and here it is fulfilling the requirements of the Council in the 2009 Law. In accordance with the general opinion of property in enterprises which are partly or entirely owned by the State, financial and economic agencies are expected to formally respond to the treatment of the relevant financial stocks in finance. An important argument can be presented that, with the implementation of projects now in the hands of the State of Banks to the Ministry, a stronger and more potent central holding unit can be developed within the Ministry. Social interests are the means by which all members of the State are cared for in a practical, professional, and uniform manner. The transfer of assets proposed in the bill contributes to such structure within the Ministry and would be an important factor in the order of these measures to be comparable to that in other parts of the North countries. It is important that the State place its owner's decisions in a reliable and professional manner. In view of this, the bill suggests that there will be an independent advisory committee for financial management, which will become a minister to advise in this field. Specialist members will be appointed to the Committee and set up rich professional requirements for members of the Committee, but all of this is comparable to that of the Commission of the Banks. The Advisory Committee will advise on the various prior tasks under the banking facility, in particular due to conditions relating to the State's ownership policies, the treatment of individual property and the possible sale of them. Then the committee can also offer suggestions on their own initiative and request information on specific treatment issues. It is then assumed that the committee will be pleased with the role of appointing qualified individuals to a session in the management of financial companies in government. This will continue to emphasize the arm length rule, where professional selection of government officials and the financial laws and their governments will be essential for independence. Although it is assumed that the advisory committee on financial companies is largely a adviser and a reviewer according to the bill, it is clear that such an independent expert advisory committee will no doubt contribute to careful management and decision-making with all the administrations and administrations of property parts on the part of the state. In terms of sales management of financial assets, special attention is given to the fact that this bill does not include changes in the laws or principles already set in existing laws on the same topic. It should be noted that the bill does not mean that sales should begin with the financial institutions of the state, but rather that sales may be initiated by the Council of Congress. It is important that the simple and clear setting of the value of sales of the State's holdings on financial contributions is simple and clear. It has to be considered that such a demonstration will give rise to the full credibility of the decision to sell possessions. The terms of the bill that focus on sales therapy are based on the methodology provided in law No. 155/2012, the sales agents of the state's financial capital. Although the government's banking regime is expected to be decommissioned, others will accept its role in selling these assets. The bill, as in the current law, is proposed first by extensive consultation with the General Assembly for the sale of financial assets, secondly, to follow clear principles for the implementation of such sales, and thirdly, a secretary has to give the Council a careful description of the trade process, along with the explanation of what would be responsible for the decision of approval or rejection. No changes are made on the extent to which a major part of property is permitted to start a sales process. No changes are made in the principles that apply to the sale of the property components. Almost no change is made in the decision to make the sale and consultation process that needs to be taken or the sale therapy itself apart from that the Bank Office will conduct a formal sales process. The bill also specifically indicates that the National Reexamination Agency should oversee the trade process of property which further strengthens the overall monitoring of the process of sales. The bill has recently stated that there will be an ongoing obligation to place a special ownership policy on the part of the state in financial companies that will be published publicly and contribute to the growth of transparency. The government's key tool is to strengthen the management of holding areas where there are plans, goals, and priorities for the State as the owner of financial contributions. At the same time, there will be increased transparency to any larger decision related to the management and sale of the property parts. The rule will also continue to be followed by the rule that independent members of the executives have knowledge and experience in financial management. This bill therefore does not reduce the importance of the arm length rule. The main change in this bill is that a small government agency is under way, but it may be that in the bank administration three executives and staff are two additional secretaries. In other words, it is the main change that this small agency will be laid down, the main development of its project, to the Ministry already responsible for the litigation, as well as the establishment of a consulting committee that has identified the field of activity as the bank administration. If the bill remains unchanged in the law, it will also reduce the expenses of the government's budget as well as the savings of operating costs to support a small government agency. A respectable president. According to this, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. The budget and the 2nd. to end this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u57	Madam President. I would like to have used this counterweight to have a place to talk about material things in the bill. It's like the highest. Secretary of finance is aware of the fact that I am completely opposed to the bill, and I don't understand what it means to be bringing down all the trouble that will be caused by accepting it. It is absolutely clear that, on the two banks, there are potential items on the bank, which suggest that within a short time, two large banks might land on the secretary's desk. Is that where they're supposed to be? So I completely refuse to go that way. What I want to ask the highest. However, a minister does not deal with this bill, does it arrive later in my speech today, but: Is there more to this at the General Assembly of the Icelanders? Is it clear that the board is behind this? This was shown in a discussion here today between me and the why. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejosson's son that a number of people, undisclosed, of the senators of the House, have warned about the bill. [[The president calls.]] There is some possibility that the Special Assembly of the Agency has agreed to a resolution against this bill. It is also known that the High Priest's Council has agreed that the National Bank should not be sold.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u58	Madam President. I suppose that's what. A senator still feels that he has been up to now, that it is right to sell the Lands Bank, i.e. The 30 percent of budgeted so far. Of course, this bill is presented here after the handling of both parties and the government. Perhaps I should not have been surprised to learn that men tried to resort to this matter to get involved in some mud storm at the council and make a fight over something that is nothing. If people think I'm really worried that I'm gonna continue with just three members of the Bank County Board where I'm hiring all three of the directors and giving them clear lines on how I can see that the Agency is going to do what it's supposed to be doing, I can do it. So I'm not worried about anything. I just think that the arrangement we set up here is more reasonable, better in line with the principles that apply to these matters, the government's handling of property, and in accordance with the realms established by the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] As a result, savings are increasing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u59	Madam President. Like all executives of the European Commission have the highest power. Ministers also have a family of peace. He has a responsibility to try to bring peace to the community and the highest. A minister well knows that this bill does nothing more than sow suspicion and strife around these matters. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] That caught my attention at the very height. One minister did not trust to claim here in the platform that the management team was behind this bill. That's why I'm bringing the question to the highest level. Minister. He has nothing to do with delaying and spending the duration of the council on issues that may not have more share among the members of the Government. There are two factors in this matter, first of all, that the forwarding party council has agreed with a very clear conclusion that Bank County should not be dropped. Let's hear it for the advance party in that case. Similarly, the forward group, the other member of the board, has been overlooked by the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance, also agreed to a conclusion that cannot be interpreted as different so that 30% of the Bank of Lands should not be sold. The first will do just so that I reiterate the question: Has the highest. Secretary of finance more than anything in the administration? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u60	Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u61	It's amazing that people can get themselves excited over as simple and as small without any real prince coming into the discussion. It's just another case of government, then. Senator. It goes through councils and the government and has entered the council because it has both sides. Here is a morphological change that involves a more efficient and clearer change of action. What is that? A senator is so afraid that by means of the arrangement proposed here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u62	Why don't you answer the question...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u63	Can I ask you a question? paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's quarrel with stopping these careers, cutting off a mud storm about nothing, and bringing in the discussion some real prince's finger he's trying to fight for and stand for? [[Up front.]] You're talking about not wasting the council's time to shit, and now I'm just saying, "What's the problem that's been going on here yesterday and today and the last few days?" Just a little thing. [[Up front.]] Nothing else has been done. These senators must give me peace, a respectable president, to use their speaking time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u64	The hour of speech is out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u65	This has been all about holding up the Senate and exasperating in the council. [[The president calls.]] That's what men are doing here, nothing more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u66	The president asks why. Parliaments giving speakers a sound to deliver their language and respect a talk lesson. [[Up front.]] [[The point is, were you listening to the talk, Oss?]] [[Up front.]] The President's going to retrace. Congress members must be silent at the Hall and give the word to speakers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u67	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Guðlaugur-like Þór. I'd like to ask a little bit about the consulting committee, which somehow replaces Bank County, if I get it right. It's said here that she should remain independent of her profession, even though she is represented by a minister and minister, ship all members of the committee. I did not fully understand whether it was a full - time job or what it should be like, but would it be possible to increase the independence of this committee by specifying in another way? Then I'm just wondering if I could be cool. It's the highest. Ministers, too, in some way of thinking about how to ensure that the knowledge available in the bank county today will continue, will not be lost? I imagine there is some knowledge that matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u68	Madam President. These are excellent questions about key issues. I can see that the advisory committee accepts a fee according to the size of the materials. I ask a few questions as to what the Bank Office is doing on a daily basis with three executives and two to three employees. Are they worth the Lands Bank every day? Is there such a great deal of government property in the savings or other parts of the State's minority in other financial companies? Do people really think that there is every reason to have an entire organization for these projects? I don't think so. Actually, I think it's a long time ago that it's not. However, if people are involved in the sale of large assets, more people need that assignment, and we will without doubt have to seek out outside assistance to hold it. It will test the advisory committee on how much work we are on at one time and if men are not in any sales therapy but more simply to shape the management policy, I don't think the role of the advisory committee will be very important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u69	A respectable president. I want to pray to the highest. Minister to answer my questions. They focused on whether it would be possible in some other way to include the committee in order to increase independence, perhaps to set this up above politics in some way, and whether a minister would consider it important to keep in some way the knowledge available to the bank office. One more question, and it's three. I didn't see it on the bill, but it may well be somewhere: Will the value of bank sales be spent in paying off the government's loans that have come from the collapse of banks when the government gave money to banks? Or may some form of elections be taken to voters, some debts, or something similar in intelligence?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u70	Madam President. I see in itself no particular reason to be otherwise acting upon the Commission's order, but it was proposed to refer to the bank administration. If you have any ideas in this subject, you may be listening to it, but here is just the exact same arrangement you have in mind about the administration of the Bank Office. I can see that the advisory committee is actually accepting her role. For preserving knowledge, yes, of course, it is highly possible to look to the knowledge that has been collected in the Agency. Then, depending on the circumstances, this knowledge would be useful to the advisory committee. Whether we're going to waste the Land Bank value, no, we're not going to. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u71	A respectable president. I'm glad they won't waste the value of the Lands Bank, but there's a reason for the suspicion of recent action. I have to say right from the start that I'm not as hot in this case as many others. I criticized the bill about Bank County at the time because I did not feel that this arrangement was the norm that was spoken of as being the norm. As a minister has gone over, the Minister's perfect power over the Bureau made it possible for me to feel that this could always have worked as some sort of villain for the Minister, that he can, in fact, control, but everyone thinks he's not in charge. I don't like it. On the other hand, we need to have a good arrangement to sell property shares and the government's handling of financial assets. There are some of the deepest wounds in the politics, always the way they were treated for sale before. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is this bill presented to increase confidence in the expected process of sales?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u72	Madam President. Of course, it is my hope that we will succeed in strengthening confidence in a future trade process beyond what has been valid in the past few years and even to this day. In our discussion, we immediately sense that at the slightest possible cause, we are trying to plant seeds of distrust about everything. I think that it will ultimately not depend on whether or not we have a special financial institution, where he appoints all the executives, or whether we have a consulting committee and how it behaves, but much more on the way that communication between the Commission and the council becomes, how it is carried out, how it works, how it works, and how it is preserved in this bill. It is also important to agree on the purpose of selling property and on what basis the value of the sale is. If all of this can be met together, I think it is possible to eliminate the mistrust that has existed in these subjects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u73	A respectable president. To eliminate suspicion and to try to build confidence in a future business process in financial companies, you may ask, " Am I at the highest level? ' Ministers are on the same page on the trade process in financial companies attacked at around the turn of the century. Does the minister think it was a good trade? Does the minister believe that something can be learned from that process, something that has found its way into this bill, or should we find our way into a bill about how to sell things on financial companies in the future? What lessons can we learn from this account, and what lesson has been learned?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u74	Madam President. That's a very big question, but among the things I think we need to learn from history is that it's important who's taking possession of banks. The order of banking in the country is important. At that time, the Lands Bank was sold with over 6% of its capital, now with over 20% of its capital. He had 16 billion in his own money, 250 today. It's a whole different institution, a lot stronger. We have given much support to the entire legal environment, and we have certain ideas that the UN can use financial companies if there are some dangers to be faced so that we have made a tremendous contribution. But we should also try to learn a lesson from whether it is wise for individuals who make significant investments at the same time in banks to make sure that they have a solid share in the bank. I don't think that's a good way. We're supposed to put up with the spread of property, but then also the rest, that the state should remain and in the future be the largest shareholder in the Lands Bank. It's a little strange to be discussing this here because Iceland's financial assets are kind of fucked up today. [[The president calls.]] We need to get out of that position where two of the big banks are among the faceless groups of demands and have been since 2009.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u75	Madam President. I'd like to ask the highest. The secretary of finance whether he thinks it's right to complete the investigation of the private development of the banks, both the first and the second, so we can learn from it when it comes to their personal development again now. Does a minister find this correct, and if not, why not go first to study the private features of the past and the second?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u76	Madam President. This was discussed considerably during the last term. I always encouraged people to finish the tests they thought hadn't done yet. But this was never done by the left government, which would always be the case in the discussion. If I recall correctly, however, there was eventually an agreement, which, of course, was not followed by any financial support. As with other research initiated by the Council, this would cost hundreds of millions of people. Studying the privateisation of the Bank of Land Bank, which has become more than ten years old, makes me feel that today's priorities are not my concern. I believe we have all the things we need in knowledge and experience to make a handsome change. However, we need to discuss at the council how we want the government's ownership to develop in the Lands Bank, how fast we should sell the state, and how we should conduct ourselves in the scattered holdings and insecures, and whether we have made the other necessary legal adjustments needed to take place in the pursuit of such goods. [[The president calls.]] We don't have a problem finishing this conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u77	Madam President. Yes, it was approved upon the resolution of the Council of November 7, 2012 on the investigation of the privateisation of industry investment banks, Iceland's National Bank Corp. and Iceland's Farm Bank, Corp. Following the Wazowski reports, Prime Minister called for perhaps a time to investigate the second privatization following the collapse. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir also called for a study at some point, so everybody's called for a test - but it doesn't happen at all. So I ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether he is not in favor of an investigation of the personalization of banks, past and subsequent. I'm asking, even if he's going to start this thing now, if he's not supporting us in an investigation of these personal developments any later than right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u78	Madam President. I thought it was clear in my first answer. First of all, it has become very old, and second, it would cost us a lot of money to go to such tests, and third, I don't think it has to do with this matter directly and neither is it necessary for us to finish selling property or to make a material decision to go to the sale. I don't know exactly what to do. A senator believes that it will yet be revealed regarding the sale of banks in which the Kingdom Accounting and the Council have repeatedly submerged. If you think it's a good thing for the public to put a few hundred million in one of the studies because of that old matter, I don't think I'd be on the yes button.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u79	Madam President. I'd like to say first about this bill that, of course, this is much better than the highest. The minister, or government, was going to offer us before the New Year's Eve session on the budget bill. Then it almost came to lay down this institution by cutting it off for years, throwing it out of a void. Happily, it was managed by unwinding the top. In fact, when a minister got the case to discuss, he admitted, in the end, that it might not have been well prepared enough, but here the bill is in which the legal framework of this case should remain. Of course, this is a better way of doing things than was suggested in the fall. In fact, I disagree with the argument given by the Minister here as an independent and important subject that this is actually saving a lot of money, and it's ridiculous that some three-man agency with a three-man regime will handle this project with a cost of management of 50 to60 million. K. But is it a lot when we keep in mind that there's a $2,3,300 billion share in it, and it's caring for huge interests and problems, financial assets, and that these financial companies are currently paying off 20 billion plus a year? Is the cost of the unity that holds up to 50 million each year really high? No, I don't think so. It's certainly a small unit, but it's not a strong chemical argument, in my opinion. It is true that the bank administration was proposed to be temporary because they had normal hopes that within the year five, there would be a clearness in the future state's holding, perhaps keeping the State of that country only part of one big bank, perhaps in some savings. Since then, things have gone much slower than humans could hope for there, and the government's ownership remains unchanged since it was already in 2009 and no sale has yet been carried out on one of the shares of the State. That is why I feel that it should begin with the question, Is it time to make changes? Or should we consider the possibility of extending this arrangement that I think no one can claim has given something bad? What, then, are we to guess if we could do it, two more years, something like that? Still, of course, it's conservative not to be ready to look at changes, and that's what I'm ready to do. I don't think it's time, first of all, and secondly, it's all well enough for this. Although there are still some of the bank and the law on selling the financial assets of the state, in the year 2009, there were laws and laws laid up in the laws and laws of the bank, which were available in its time, and right in 2009, to prepare the way of the State's right of possession. Day after spring of 2009, men were busy, and they had plenty to do. Of course, they discussed it at the council, and it would be interesting to review it a bit, but I think there are things that need to be considered carefully, such as whether it is time to lay down the Agency. Although no sale has yet been asked on property, by law the Bank Office has been responsible for preparing to lay the foundation for its survival. That knowledge was built there. Second, the question is, Is the Ministry organizationally ready to take over the project? The Arms extension may have been the main subject of our discussion in the spring of 2009, and whether it would be sufficient for a political minister to use his power in an abnormal way toward this delicate tradition. Here's what I think the Arms are a little weak, and I'm going to give you some evidence, Madam President. There is also a lower qualifications for the advisory committee than those given in the bank administration of the law on it today. At least there is less detailed list of who are not qualified to be in charge because of something they may have done in the past. And now there is no independent selection committee. Of course, the major difference is that instead of independent management, there is a consulting committee. On these two, there is a fundamental difference. The bank administration today is highly independent under the law. It is so independent that the minister may have no interference in her activities after he has ordered her to study through a) shape the policy of the government to enforce, b) to send her a written statement that she may react or respond. This communication should take place on two members of the Parliament. That's the way it is. What will replace it? A advisory committee where nothing is said about the channels, where nothing is said about the communication between the minister and the advisory committee, where nothing is said about what to do if there is a conflict between them, where nothing is said of any kind of communication between them. There is no need for supervision if the Minister and the Advisor communicate with him, as there may be a conflict in the course of a journey rather than that in the present system, it is automatically made official in almost parallel, and if the Secret Bank Minister deals with him, it should be done in such a way that all of it will be publicized afterwards. I believe this is a great weakness in the case as it has been arranged and resolved from the current law. There's a difference between an independent administration and a consulting committee. When the Texts Are Readed and Compared, No. 88/2009, about the Bank Office, and the bill here, is the advisory committee in the main priority of the selection committee. It has the central role, apart from general counseling, to choose people in the governments of banks and businesses in which the State has a share. Hence, an arrangement is certainly being conducted, a selection committee, and on the basis of it's arrangement is so set up in the board of directors. But, of course, it is moved to the minister instead of having nothing to do with the minister today. In the present arrangement, a selection committee offers suggestions for the administration of the Bank Office, which puts men on board instead of ministers. Let's just go over exactly as it is. There's a difference, but I'm not saying that one thing is necessarily unacceptable and cannot walk. This is where I feel that the main thing to discuss is here. Of course, ma'am, I cannot help but hold only on to the position of several members of the Independence Party and the memory of the section at the General Assembly in the spring and in the summer of 2009. What were their chief concerns? Ólöf Nordal, current Minister of Internal Affairs, participated in 1st. of June 22, 2009, and what doubts did she have? She said, with the permission of a president: ▪ On the other hand, I don't know that enough is going to be done to separate the finance Department from this institution in the order that is being carried out. I think it is absolutely necessary to wonder if it is, if it is absolutely certain that this is making sure that the political reality is not too close to this institution. This was the attitude of the current Minister of state. The main concern was that a minister would still be too close to the case, although the Bank Office was set up by an independent administration and a selection committee under it as the representative of the representatives established by the board, and the secretary himself was not allowed to come close to one or anything after putting the bank administration in place for the first time. The government was then organized by a minister to all five years of the government. The minister let go of the case on the day the law became active, and the bank administration had been established, could not, could not, and had no interference with how it was handled otherwise. It never occurred to me that at least as a minister, I would have to be directed to the Board of Directors of Bankies. The only instructions that she had beyond the law were the master policy published in the autumn of 2009. So these were the concern of the Minister of State now, in the present instance. Governor Ólöf Nordal. Of course, Tryggg Þór Herbertsson, our beloved and friend, was one of the most influential spokesmen of the Independence Party in such matters. Among other things, what did he say? Yes, he quoted the bill's text and said, by permission of the president: ▪ The latter is found in 2 g. That financial ministers should put in command. I think it's very bad, it's really damaging to the Agency's main purpose, which is to ensure the arm length of the policy. Tryggg Þór Herbertsson, spokesman for the Independence Party in these matters, wanted to go so far that the minister could not even command the government, for some of the Arms extensions would be placed in the table. He suggested that the General would take over a board of directors and committees so that the minister would just not get anywhere. Now it may be that the independence party's attitude was greatly influenced by who was the minister back then, but I just ask: " Is that a serious matter? Is this how things are supposed to take place in politics, that legislation should be shaped by human attitudes toward who then and then has a unique office? But I will not leave those of independence, knowing that they were nothing at all, neither is it yet; but I will listen to me. I'm going to tell them that it was a complicated position, that they were so worried that their arms would not be kept safe enough, that the political power would not be kept clear enough of the ownership of banks. I understand that viewpoint very well, so I agree. I hope humans have learned from experience. Let us not forget that there we are talking at the General Assembly of the Icelanders in the spring and in the summer of 2009 with the collapse of our shoulders and the disastrous results of the way people conduct themselves with the government's ownership of banks in private interest. I can quote many more members of the Independence Party, e.g. Yeah. paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson, or the committee's opinion of a smaller section of the Council of Business in the summer of 2009, which is intended to sign why. Théoden Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, Margrét Tryggvadóttir, Ragnheiður E. Árnadóttir, and Harðardóttir Hardirdótir, say all the administrations. What does it say, by permission of the President? Since most of the country's financial institutions are owned by the State, it is only natural that a secretary of finance does not directly interfere with the administration of banks. In the community, there is a requirement that the minister's authority be reduced. At first glance, the role of the Bank Office seems to be to reduce the Ministry of Ministers, but when you consider the matter, it can be seen that financial ministers are being given great authority in the Agency. They include power. in that a minister selects a three-man administration of the Agency, as it were managers of the Management Board. The same view is in the conclusions made by the committee's opinion that this arrangement is not even going far enough to ensure that the minister has nothing to do with anything. Is the same people going now, top dog. Secretary of the state of Ólöf Nordal and the highest. Social Ministry of Eygló Harðardóttir, who is printed with this position, now to back it up in the opposite direction? Because it does. Yes, the highest. Secretary of finance, there can be no denying that it is less efficient to appoint a advisory committee rather than a management committee and to replace all communications between the Minister and the Advisor Committee, as well as a consulting committee as a counseling committee and a management committee. It is Icelandic that is enough to understand the difference. I think we need to take a real good look at this. I am prepared to do so and am totally resolved to find a good organization on this. If time had allowed, I would have covered it a little, and I might have done it in the second speech, that I have doubts that the Ministry of finance is fully prepared for this holding, especially since the Ministry of finance is also the Ministry of Economics, the Ministry of finance. The financial market law is under the same department, and the F.O.D. is under the same department. Therefore, the role of the Economic and Economic Ministry today is far more challenging in this regard than with another independent Ministry of Education legislation in the financial market. It would have been less of a concern to move property into the Ministry of finance as it was 2009 because otherwise the financial market heard under another Ministry, but it does not today. Finally, I thank you very much. For financial gain, please see the article on page 5 of this magazine. 7. It says, by permission of the president: The term never really had any of the assets and debts transferred from the old banks to the new, so it means that the state, with its own financial gain, would have become part of the new banks in connection with the restoration of business banks after the collapse, rather than with the actual sale of the stocks. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I wonder what. paritaprevir Guðlaugur of Þór Thordsson read it and read it. þm. Vigdís Hauksdóttir, sometimes talking about...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u80	President. A person has to be very brief, but there are many points in the talk that I would like to talk about. First, yes, that's right, 50 million business costs are not very high against the property, but aren't we also appointing a special government on the possession of land activation, which is equally valuable if not a considerably more valuable company? One must wonder, " Is there a special organization with full - time servants all day long for this work? ' That's the main thing, that's the theme of this bill, or should we have a consulting committee to cover these projects? It's going on in the arm length. I don't agree with that. A senator says. Why did we temporarily set up this institution? Why? Yes, because we did not anticipate that this would be a permanent arrangement. It's an independent advisory committee. It will ensure the length of the arm from the minister into the bank administration and into other decisions. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingf Steingrímsson has said: Well, perhaps it is not in the present system to ensure the full independence of the government from the Minister, as I believe að the Ólöf Nordal of its time og Tryggvi Þór Herbertsson, the senator of that time, has actually been talking about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u81	Madam President. I'm glad I'm doing it. The minister admits that the cost of operating at such unity is not high in view of the enormous sums of money and value being taken care of. There is not necessarily evidence that many of these are to be developed over the possession of other phenomena, land induction, and other such. There, for example, is the difference between the highest level. Financial and economic secretarys take this letter to Landing, Istavia, and other public members of the country hear that they stand up for other professional services. The maintenance of the services is clean in the Ministry of finance, but otherwise the Ministry is not the Department of Legal Affairs. I think that's an option in these cases. Of course, I'm not going to be a spokesman, but I've asked the question: Is it time in the light of the situation of staging the 2009 arrangement to hold on to this enormous task as such a vast continuation of systematically important financial assets until the state has been in a streamlined it and perhaps pull out of all such units except one or two? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u82	Madam President. Even though 50 million are not large in the entire context of things, we need to ask ourselves, " Is this arrangement a cause for extramarital? ' The key point in this bill is that this can be done more effectively and effectively, ensuring the length of the arm. Like I said in answer to what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's son, if it's just men's eyes, and they're going to give themselves up to stay in the Senate because of such a small system change, good and well, the one standing here is just the three heads of the Bank County management board, we're putting this money on the line to run the board and three employees, and hopefully they have enough to do all day, all day long, to score the Lands Bank, and to keep our property in the savings budget until we go into the business. There will be a lot to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u83	Madam President. Of course, there are 50 million large sums of money, and we often wonder about less money here. In many places it would be possible to use such resources if they truly thought that the deposit of the bank office would actually save 50 million. I haven't given myself that this is how the Ministry of finance is so good an officer that it can improve this kind of work as a cleaner extra power because it needs to be careful outside of this holding. I would also have expected that the Ministry of Economic Affairs would then be in the organizational setting even more planned for this breakthrough, so that it has come, in some respects, to which I think it would be desirable to do in many ways, even in whatever of this, so it would not be the same as it was in my time, and may be to some extent still, only in the usual office in the Ministry, where many other projects and subjects are, some of which are sensitive even because the Ministry is also the Ministry of Economics, and carried the legislation about him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u84	A respectable president. I don't agree with what we've learned here, that these are small amounts of money, it's been 374 million in the past six years, and you can certainly make use of that amount in other things. Now we talk. A senator and a former chief. Ministers of the long - term arm plan, and there's no question that the thought of Bank County was that she would hold on to financial assets. But that is not guaranteed. We know that there were two savings that were once the highest. Ministers held themselves in spite of the existence of the Bank Office, Byr and SpKef. I was in trouble at the time. Business committee. We also know that the Bank Office suggested how to handle the savings funds. They expected to take Byr and SpKef, as did men with other ideas about the savings fund. There was nothing left to it. Can't we agree that even if someone puts it on such a facility, it won't guarantee an arm length? I know it's over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u85	Madam President. I let myself remember and remind myself, including... by reading the names of the committee as a question. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þórðarson wrote that the concern of independence and the memory of the section was because the arms lengths weren't guaranteed enough in this arrangement. That's why I'm having trouble seeing what I'm seeing. A senator will come up here as a supportive assistant to bring this back, at least In some ways. We can debate how much or decisive it is, but, of course, the movement is to move the case into the Ministry. Putting down an independent administration and setting up a consulting committee, making everything disappear from the law in which the Minister deals with the bank administration today is a fallback in this respect. Of course I know my good friend. paritaprevir The Guðlaug of Þór Thor Þórðarson, when he goes straight to say that something different happened during the last term, that I've held my property in some savings that should have gone to Bank County. It was the exact same procedure in every case that similar to the intergalactic situation, that was in the hands of the Ministry to receive the ball from the SEC if an institution was lost, established, and taken care of financialally on the basis of that institution. [[The president calls.]] When it was finished and it was done, the holding was transferred to the Bank Office... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u86	A respectable president. Hv. A senator can talk about it as he wishes, but the facts are presented and presented in his research report on the savings fund. That's where it's all damp. I was in trouble myself. A business committee that introduced me to the Bank Office's ideas on the savings fund, and nothing was done. It's all there is to it. If you want to study this case with SKef and Byr, you can only report it to the NTSB, it's available. It may well be that you only mention it after that because here comes a former U.S.A. Ministers, talking a lot about the length of the arm, that it is so necessary to have an institution, a respectable president, to maintain an arm's length. [[Up front.]] It wasn't done. We have put nearly 400 million people in this facility, and the long - term plans just weren't there. Hv. A senator can say exactly what he wants; I urge men to examine the report on the savings fund. That's it. That's it. That's it. Two savings were in business without meeting legal requirements, and this cost the taxpayers huge sums of money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u87	Madam President. I also encourage you to read the report on the savings fund, read the Generals' research report, stay all together, and everything that comes out there, as well as what goes on about politicians, and so on. It was exactly this way, and it's confirmed in the savings report. The Ministry of Economics had to appear on behalf of the State when it had to be taken into account on the terms of the emergency law to set up a new agency to accept property and commitments from another who had gone astray. If the situation did not resolve that it would move directly to another functional financial agency, such an institution was set up, exactly as was done with the three large banks in the fall of 2008. In accordance with financial reform agreements and financial funding, the Ministry of finance could bring about the nature of the case, since it had to be presented or negotiated as to how it was done. When the funding came, when the institutions met the demands, the holding was transferred to the Bank County. [[The president calls.]] It is confirmed that this was exactly the way it was, including... in the savings report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u88	A respectable president. I find this very interesting discussion, and I have every right to shape my view of this matter on the committee's discussion, but I would like to ask myself why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon into this because he has a lot of knowledge about all of this. At one time, it was criticized that the length of the arm was possibly a virtual length, mainly because of the manner in which the bank administration was to be placed. All right, let's get down to it. Senator, now the highest. Minister, if you're right and the arm length worked, this has been a completely independent institution and the secretary's intervention no one, then I'm wondering at this point when we're expected to go into a business process on a large scale in these financial companies, if that would be the right arrangement. Is it not possible that there would be too little control over that important organization in such a vital matter and unclear where the responsibility would be in case of disaster? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u89	Madam President. Now it's confusing. A senator, but quite rightly, will not be released and held. This, in the spring of 2009, I pointed out that on the one hand, there is a requirement that there is absolutely no political responsibility and the other is that political power is not involved. It's not always good together. There are advantages and problems for both. If there's such a matter in the Ministry for the Minister's responsibilities, it's absolutely clear that he's completely responsible. On the other hand, if it is extended to an independent institution and harmony, the minister in many respects is in a much more complex position because he still has the responsibility for the seminary. On its own, people don't always have a good diagnosis. He is ashamed if something goes wrong, even if the Council arranged for him to avoid anything. That is not necessarily an easy thing to do. Is the present arrangement really best if we want to make sure that nothing gets wrong when it comes to selling things? They may have doubts about that. [[The president calls.]] All I think I've learned from all of this in recent years is that transparency, transparency, and retransluctance are the best defense.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u90	A respectable president. There I wholeheartedly agree, this process must be marked by transparency. I think there was a lot of reasons for starting an independent agency like this. One thing that has not been mentioned here is that this was an enormous project, especially at the time when there was a small amount of activity in the government business, let's say, in the wake of the crash. There was also one reason to establish this. I can give you what? A senator may have thought this was a good idea at the time, even though I criticized it, but now we are at a different time. Now we're going to sell this. Well, maybe. A senator sees some means that we can find to unite both responsibilities and professionalism? For example, could it be found in that we have legalized some form of a broader political approach than, for example, the minister or any other community member of the community in this process? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Do we have to think outside the box?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u91	Madam President. I think there might well be an option here to prefer either a transverse or professional monitoring committee that would have access to all the information through the whole process in case a sale on a property share would be made. This is done in many parts of the countries around us. It's just a set of special surveillance and supervisor who has access to all the information at all levels. Of course, to some extent we can delegate such a role to the State Accounting and have other ways to produce it. One way is that instead of the minister's appointment as a consulting committee, an independent foreign advisory committee or monitoring committee would simply be put in place. I want to remind you of one thing that is still missing in this debate about the arm lengths, perhaps to some extent changed to this day, that the concern and suspicion were not the least in 2009 that in the hands of banks and/or the Minister, the possession of all kinds of companies would remain in place, and therefore the politicians could not come anywhere so that the banks could not dose it for each such company and property. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u92	Madam President. Nowhere is such power stirred together in one place as in banks. An excessive close - up and the neighborhoods of banks and political power are very undesirable. Sports scare them out of fear. We don't have to go back to 2003 when the banks were privateised. There they were mixed with a poisonous mixture of this neighborhood I'm talking about. This was realized at the time when they set up the law on the bank administration, and it was tried to cut as far between political power and those who had the possession of it. Hv. A senator has been very careful about what the Bank Management Board is concerned about the arm's length and what this advisory committee is, in effect, a much less spontaneous device than it is. I'd like to ask him if I didn't understand correctly with a 1.m. 8. g., in which it is clear that the minister himself, following his own initiative, begins a trade process, has taken a significant step from the current law because it is bringing political power on the holding and decision - making process much closer to each other than before. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u93	Madam President. On the one hand, we do well to recall in addition to what happened. In answer, a senator said that it is just good not to forget the exact world we came from. Where do we come from in this regard? Yes, until a collapse, the bank council of all the largest banks in the country had been organized by politicians, and the bankers themselves were up to a group of donors. So close were the politicians. I hope we're gone forever. That is a perfect reason to ask: How, then, should we make sure that we do not stumble in the same direction? The wording in the opening paragraph 8 paragraph. helped me, too, that a minister could take his own initiative, or that he could get a proposal from a consulting committee, i.e. The minister can totally begin this process himself. True, he must return the report and all that, but, in effect, it is completely cut off from what is in the Bank County Act today, that she alone can move on in that process and suggest a minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u94	Madam President. In 2009, the banking agency was protesting almost every member of the United States of Congress a joint attempt to prevent the formation of the same situation and after the personalization of the banks. Now, there is another privatization because there is all evidence to suggest that if we cut off the currency pits, two major banks will land in the possession of the state. Then we'll face it again. So, what's going on here? Yes, they're throwing away Bank County. Why don't we keep it? Why do we not have the time needed to eliminate the majority of these assets? Today, people have asked: "Why do men make the setting of sunset rules? " The answer is: Because they simply felt that these assets had been sold. Now a system is being installed, so a consulting committee is as independent as any. A senator described earlier, arranged by a minister. The minister may take his own initiative in starting the trade process. Who does he have to ask? Yes, the counsellor he himself commands, the Sentencing Bank. Madam President and what? Senator. Is it not also important that we look at the World Trade Bank bill that will increase the number of bankers by three? [[The president calls.]] Is that not also the challenge of independence? [[The president calls.]] Is it not also getting the curator of political power involved in this career?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u95	Madam President. It is most beneficial for humans to compare 1 paragraph. law on the sale of the financial holdings of the State today and the opening paragraph 8 gr. This bill. In 1st. The law's no. 155/2012 says: The secretary is authorized to sell in all respects or, in part, to the following part of the State's holdings on finance, to obtain legal and legal authorization from the state's bank administration. i-and-J-S-W-E-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-T-E. The legal rights today are directly conditioned, and bound to the proposal that they have come from the Bank Office. Otherwise, the minister is not authorized by law to begin a trade process. It's a clear difference. This I can confirm without necessarily using the exact same terms on this subject. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u96	A respectable president. We'll discuss a bill on how to treat and sell the government's holdings on financial funds. If there is a law bill, the result will be that the Bank Office will be laid down by law No. 88/2009. You ask yourself, " Is it time to take care of an arrangement that has proved to be successful and has been practical? ' In this regard, the Bank Office has been considered to be a charge for the cost of her operating, but it can be expected that her business will be at about 50 to 60 million each year. It retains the holdings of the state's holdings of potentially $2,250,300 billion, impossible to say, so this is 0.02%. It would take 50 years to reach 1% at this cost. Surely there are experts and maintenance of knowledge, among other things, when it would be wise to start a trade process on these assets. To date, this institution has not seen any reason to do so, and that decision has been successful, as the government fund has been making a lot of money from these companies, and it has no doubt increased in price since the Bank Management Board went into operation. I think that's one of the things that need to be considered. Is it time and is there an improvement in the ownership of the Ministry responsible for the legalization of the financial sector? When you look at the law on the establishment of the Bank County, fine reading, you can see in the evidence that the need for an institution like this is cited by a well - thought - out report from OECD, which reviews the best way to handle the state's property in various companies of which the state belongs and then is to believe that it is best for the Ministry of Products to take over in various institutions, such as hospitals, activation and banks, it is not a government agency that then puts the laws on these markets. It would be unfortunate to have both the holding and the legislation on the affairs of this institution and the bank. That would be a return to me, and there's something you need to wonder about. Then there is the transparency discussed in previous talks. Instead of having the arrangement where Ministers orders the administration of the Bank Office, which then appoints a selection committee, which will later select members of the bank council, a minister, according to this new bill, appoints a advisory committee directly ordered by the board, including the board of directors. I'm assuming all the board of directors of the National Bank and the entire bank board, which is then the only level of governance closer to the Minister. While you have strong confidence in counselors, it is unwise to take this middleman away. No matter how well we trust stewards, this vast power of banks and political power is usually not a good mixture, nor is it bad to watch this segregation diminish as a result of this bill. The bill also suggests that Kingdom Halls should care for the sale of these financial assets in the financial institutions in due time. I don't know well enough about the Government, and I don't know if there's any special knowledge in it about how to sell things in financial companies. In this regard, there may be other reasons and viewpoints other than those of other localities, so there is something else that you would have liked to gain a slightly better glimpse of. Here we may be talking about a $2,250,300 billion sale, which certainly justifies a great sense of expertise in dealing with this situation. I don't know if she's in the ministry or if she's up for State. At least you know that the bank office, as it has been driven so far, has been intervening in this, and there is good knowledge. We've received many reviews from the Bank Office on the number of issues involved in this market. They have been practical and helpful. There would be a measure of regret if there were no more. The bank administration deals with many things, and one of the things I would also like to draw attention to is that the Bank Office handles government relations with financial institutions involved in and relates to the owner's work so that banks and financial companies do not have such contact with the Minister or Ministry. I think it's a good separation, and it's good to keep him. This is because this arrangement has proved to be very effective. It has been successful and the cost of that little one, so you have doubts that there is a basis for attacking these changes now. The transparency is important and may be increased. I might have agreeed with the views expressed by the Bureau of Bank County, that perhaps it could have been different from the order of the Council of Bank County. Perhaps it would be beneficial to have, not necessarily the minister's direct access, but some sort of presence of the council, with vast quantities of property. Before selling property items in these banks, I believe that the matter should always come before the council. These factors, including those, could not be avoided when discussing the Assembly of the Agency. that there would be a better chance that the Bank Management Board would continue to take care of the government's property in financial companies, including the U.S. to ensure the length of the arm and the professional profile there has been. The arrangement has been successful. Also, the District Convention concluded that the Lands Bank should remain in the state and operate as a community bank, but this bill assumes that up to 30% of the State's ownership will be sold. On both of these grounds, I have doubts about what is being planned for. [[Investigated by the advance party...]] Yes, on my part and at least on the council, although I cannot speak for all the candidates or for all members of the council in that matter. All I want to do is just step back from the bank market competition. In Iceland, there are three banks, which have a combined total of over 90% market share and their profits last year were 80 billion, and 60 billion years earlier. If the Land Bank was to be set out to secure high - quality economic competition, a part of this would be the profits of customers, the people, and the companies in the country. Perhaps the benefits of the country would be between 10, 20 or even 30 billion each year. What are the benefits of selling 30% shares in the Bank of Lands? Is it bigger or smaller? If you simply calculate this, it is much less because, even if the state would sell its share in the Lands Bank and sacrifice it so as to establish a policy of competitiveness and leading to the offer of best and low and good growth, not that he should lose his money, but only the rest of the banks will maintain the competition, possibly holding the value of 70 to 90 billion. We can't know. A reduction in the debt of that amount would reduce the interest rate of the state's budget by 3How5 billion a year. There are a much lower number than 203/430 billion that the nation would receive through more economic conditions in the banks in general. Here at a council, we must always try to make the best choice for the people in general. We can't think directly about government funds alone. He only exists for the people, the people of the country. There is no special goal in his life that he owes much less if that means that the cost of everyone in the country will be much higher. This bill is an opportunity to discuss this idea, whether it is above the head of a person's mind to sell it at the Lands Bank or to place it on the market in some way. So in itself, I rejoice to have an opportunity to discuss it and hope that members of Congress are prepared to reflect on this idea discussed at the Assembly of the Future Party. I hope that she will be following this discussion as a part of the program. Although many banks have been successful since collapse and have been restored in many ways, I believe it is premature to put the bank office down and transfer the projects into the Ministry of finance. I think there's still reason to keep in that knowledge and activity. There are not only things in the three big banks that the Bank Office has held around but also property items in the savings. I believe that there will still be a future solution to their arrangement, whether it can be arranged to create some kind of common sponsor for the savings fund. For example, if a government fund took the position of owning the Lands Bank for the future, it would be a bank that would provide services on a national scale, the savings of the savings network would be very useful and it could be an excellent solution for the Lands Bank to become a sponsor to the savings system and to be driven as a social bank, both in the capital area and throughout the country to promote the settlements. Although I am from the city of Reykjavík, I am, of course, the advantage that there is also a powerful financial service in the country. In view of all of this, I think we should take advantage of the opportunity to look into these matters completely wide open. I'll notice in itself that the case is referred to the budget board, not to the F.H.S.A., where the case would have been admissible. [[Up front.]] Instead, a review from the Economic and Business Committee will come up with a financial committee if they want it, but I'm not going to have any further comments on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u97	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He says he feels it's a question of whether what is suggested here by the highest level. Economic and Economic Ministers and is a administrative bill time and wonder if it's right to handle the matter in the management of financial and economic ministers and their Ministry, that it is inappropriate to take the party away, doubting that the government will have enough expertise to take care of the trade process. Hv. One senator believes that things are changing that so far have worked well and says that he feels that transparency is very important. I want to ask you why. Senator: Am I clear about his objection to this bill? Is the Agency's party against the bill? Does it go against the approval of the forward party?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u98	A respectable president. I can only answer for myself. As I came to my talk, I feel that much on the bill is not improving from the present arrangement. Of course, I do not violate the fact that the matter is being handled in the council and in committees. I'm always optimistic about the ability to change matters so that they get better and think that all discussions are good. But I am content to express my position on the matter and have reasoned with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u99	Mr. President. Even if I am a little confused after a speech, the president will have to forgive me. Senator. This bill allows for the sale of the Bank of America, or sells 30% of its share at the Lands Bank. The budget also expects 30% of items sold at the Lands Bank. The approval of the advance party is contrary to both of these issues. We've just spent a long time discussing the natural pass that was dead before he arrived at the council. Is there anything else around here? I want to ask you why. A senator whether it is more beneficial for him to agree on how they want things, at least in general, before throwing it at us here at the council? See what? A senator proposes that we propose a new proposal to a financial committee that may be acceptable to the administrative parties in this regard? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u100	A respectable president. I don't trust to answer all the questions asked on how to do administrative work and so forth. I think there is room in such cooperation so that you can disagree and refer some matters to a council, if that is the case, and trust the committees and councils to provide better solutions. There are a number of bills that have been fully satisfied with committees and have been greatly altered. I think that can also be true of bills that are not very happy about. But it is exactly the role of the Parliament to find these routes, and I expect much of the budget in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u101	A respectable president. I'm trying to get a speech. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejosson because even though he sometimes disagrees with him, I always want to hear what he thinks, he comes here in general with a fresh tinge in these materials. So it gives you a little thought to the highest degree. Minister has sent the case. The Gaming Committee, but not the reason. The Economic and Business Committee. I would have thought it would be a good idea if there were to be a financial and business committee where I feel that this is the way it is, in general, a much wider pattern going on. A legal committee may carry out relatively more specific tasks, apparently at least. I wanted to ask you what. A senator of his idea, or whether I understand his idea correctly and must he go more into it -- this is no time you have here - i.e. that the bank will have the policy of competing with other banks, if I understand why. A senator is correct, that it is the idea, that the Lands Bank is competing with other banks, holding the private banks a little in the competition so that it will become a kind of mix of the bank system and the bank of the state. I really want to hear more about it because I'm not sure I get it right. Thank you. A senator in advance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u102	A respectable president. I thank you for this question and welcome the opportunity to describe a little more clearly the concept of a community bank. Indeed, there is no new idea of the needle; it is known from many countries, e.g. Germany, where savings have been in that role, they are naturally much bigger than our savings, but their services are guided, not by high - level profits, but by maximizing services to society. Banks are somewhat special institutions in the sense that they have a lot of authority, including the U.S.A. has authority to make money or money. There is really no end to it if there is no contest to a bank market, as can happen in small markets, e.g. Iceland where three banks have a greater part of the market, 90%, and it's very difficult to start banks. There are so - called, high - level, market barriers, and such banks have some kind of protection against competition. When such competitiveness is so competitive, it can be an important role for the State, which should not be meddled in markets, to interfere with and lead the competition, not to drive losses for other banks in any way, but only that profit is moderate, normal. Of course, community banks are not being suggested to lose money. Rather, they are expelled from the point of view to providing the best service at cost, not being guided by capitalization, but being guided by a down payment on service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u103	A respectable president. I noticed when I lived abroad that the more you pay the server, the more he disturbs you from eating. I notice here the more interesting the talk, the less time you have to talk about it. I find this to be a very interesting idea. I wondered about this phenomenon, a community bank, how to make sure that the bank's interests go along with the way that the bank achieves its goals. You can be confident that people are greedy, at least, if I correctly understand the capitalist idea of using my greed, which I'm not entirely convinced I am. But when it comes to community banking ideas, I wondered how to do the interests of the bank's managers exactly so that they are united with the goal, which is to their bank some kind of social function. Now I don't know what time it is, a respectable president, it's all become the most embarrassing. I'm just gonna stop here. (Forseti (SJS): Thank you so much. A senator for that. I think the minute was here, but there was something standing on the clock, let's hope this works now.)
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u104	A respectable president. I appreciate that. In terms of the rewards in community banks, I think there is nothing different from other subsidies or commercial systems in normal companies. It can be an all - out of - the - matter - of - the - matter - of - the - matter - of - the - matter - of - the - matter - of - the - matter - of - the - person approach, which may be a standard, such as: How many customers were happy? What did we get from customers? Did we come out as a popular company? Can we get good reviews from the staff? Do we cherish our community responsibilities? Do we make a quick, practical loan? Are we losing loans? Do we choose wise lenders or not? All of this, you can have values of all kinds. I'm generally against simple, simple calculators. I think they're supposed to be complicated. And then, with wise people who can trust well and pay a fine wage, allowing them only to know how to do the right things in the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u105	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónánsson gave a very interesting talk earlier. The main element of the bill being discussed at ease. There are two kinds of issues that were discussed by a senator. First, the bill suggests that the Bank Management Board be laid down. Second, it is suggested that 30% of Iceland's Bank be sold. In a speech or two. A senator said that he felt that it was premature to quit the Bank Office and that he had doubts that selling those 30% was the right thing to do. What is most important, though, is that the Assembly of the Agency has said in black and white that the Bank Board is to live, and second, that the Lands Bank is to be a community bank. My question to why. A member of Parliament is this: Is not the senator's members of the Parliament, who serve at the General Assembly, acting according to this resolution of the Council of Congress? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u106	A respectable president. Of course, according to the Constitution, members of the Parliament must act according to their own convictions, but it certainly affects our conviction of the conclusions made at the forward party council, and there may be good ideas, of course, but of course, each member of the Parliament in his own authority has established what he would like to adopt of them. But I think this policy is clear, and these conclusions of the House of Congress are very clear, and of course I think the senators will try to follow them fully as long as they do not conflict with their own convictions. It's like this. With regard to this bill and the sales rights of property things as well as the rest of it. A senator also assumed that it also discussed the sale of the government's property at Arion Bank and Iceland Bank and the property of the state in the savings funds. I don't think in itself it's unfortunate to look at the sales of them like those little things at Arion Bank and Iceland Bank. I think that if we sell the Lands Bank, if we sell that thing and lose this opportunity to make it a community bank - there's something we should really consider before we do it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u107	Mr. President. I'm not gonna spit. A senator who spoke a few words about the convictions of the forward party. I think if it happened. The members of the party have a conviction in these two matters, if they were present at the party council. I'm asking why. Senator: Isn't it true that, according to the news, all the senators at the party council voted with both suggestions? I view at least a few who may have other convictions. At any rate, it is absolutely clear that we are dealing with a bill that is essentially contrary to the decision of the Council. Why, then, are we wasting our time discussing a bill that obviously has no more part in the Allied Parliament? I'm surprised. I've made it two times a day, Mr. President, to learn how many members of the Convention made a warning about the bill. I asked why. A senator today. He's a spokesman for the economic party. That is why I can ask him, and we at the council are required to know: "How many of the senators in the House didn't trust to declare their support to this bill as it is? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u108	A respectable president. I think maybe this can be explained to you this way. A member of the council did not have much time to evaluate the contents of the bill and discuss it on a subject or to get a presentation from the highest level. Minister. So the doubts raised at a council meeting could not be answered at that meeting. Hence, despite any doubts in the group, the decision was not to stand in the way of the case, and it would be given to a legal treatment. These are the models made. I don't think it's unnatural and it's the best thing that we just talk about the bill. I'm sure it's a shame if the council finds it tragic that there are some prime radios coming in from both members of Congress or government, from the government sector or others who may not be able to pass, I don't think it's the spirit. I feel that it should be allowed to talk, and I feel nothing bad about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u109	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for a fine speech. I agree with that. Sigurjónsson That there is nothing wrong with discussing things. But we're still in a very inexplicable position. In accordance with the budget, there was a advance from the forward category on increase in food taxes. It was very easy to persuade the group to participate in raising taxes on the food of the people. Now we have a case where a party release is directly available - and there's nothing that happened a few years ago, it's less than a month ago that the forward party agreed that the National Bank Banker would not be sold and that the bank administration would continue to operate. Now we've got this case here at the council that's going against it. Is it over the head to be pleased that the Prosecution Party agrees that this case will come on the program?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u110	A respectable president. It is asked if there is a proper basis for this to be considered. I think it's true then to point out that the council didn't object to being treated for Congress, that it would be allowed to go on. It was before the party council was held to set aside chronological order and cannot be determined ahead of time. So this is the order of the cases. I hope that explains how this is going to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u111	V.E.G. President. Yes, that's true, that happened before, April 1st, the big day. At that time, we people had no idea what April boy was and what wasn't, and unfortunately, it wasn't all Aprily. There was a national financial programme that assumes that the Bank of America's sales will be sold, and this bill was submitted that assumes that the Bank will be shut down and that a part of the Bank of America will be sold. Then it came to this assembly, and it is very important for us here in our discussion to know if the matter is on the agenda because we're going to do seminary or if the government is serious, as this bill is supposed to be legal. Congress can discuss what it wants, but it must be arranged by a government who causes it to be made legal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u112	A respectable president. I didn't notice that a direct question was addressed to me in this answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u113	A respectable president. If I was to say exactly as I am, I'd rather have had a nice conversation with him. 2.m. Smoke. n., Frosti Sigurjónsson, since I believe he certainly has the latest ideas on bank and money matters in general. Surely there is a need to discuss them and make good use of every opportunity to do so because they are important, and I allow myself to say that many do not understand them well, both in public and even in the great General Assembly. It's a group of paintings that make it easy for you to understand when it's hard to understand that you don't really understand it. Economics, by the way, are affecting some of the most scientific and influential interests in mankind's world, and so do I. Thus, it is worth discussing such ideas as a community bank and the like. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson is prepared to do so, hoping that as many members of the Parliament will be available in that important discussion. On the other hand, we are also confronted with history and what we know has happened. We also have specific experiences, and we can draw conclusions from the system in which we now live and determine the likely consequences of our actions on the basis of history, i.e. If we do the same thing again under the same circumstances as our system theory proves true, which is not necessarily the case. Basically, it's a bill about privatizing the state's financial businesses. That's no small detail, it's actually the beginning of what led to the 2008 collapse. Although I'm not old now, I remember very well the discussion that at the time asked about how property should be. The original talk was that it would be distributed, and then for some reason that I'm not yet aware, it was decided that property would be compressed and that there would be a large kleaf investment. This I counted at the time, despite not being very old, being a big mistake and counting yet. So I'm glad to hear people talk about the best way to have owned a scattered place, and it's also a happy surprise to hear it. Secretary of finance agree. Now I'd like to suggest that if you want to buy any stock, you'll have to deal with a lot of people. I think it may be best to start the process well. If anyone disagrees with me, I certainly hope that the person responds to me and explains what is wrong with it. I don't think I'm at all an expert in this field, but I believe that I know things from the story and what everyone knows here and, of course, from the information available on the beautiful Internet. What's mainly in my mind on this matter is that my plans seem rather vague to me. I don't know how to get to the top. The Minister intends to do this. In view of that, I just have to say for the moment, that the Icelanders have not proved to have a lot of financial awareness, I think it's important that we stop and think seriously about what we're going to do and on what grounds. I often experience at the High General and, actually, in the community a little bit, as if I were in Iceland shortly before a collapse. I have a lot of experience with the same kind of thinking, experience that people give themselves the same basis, and sometimes forget the same basics. One essential factor is that we are a very small society with a small amount of currency. We have the crown, the tiny currency. This means that we just can't take the traditional, as well as the largest economic theories in the world and apply them to Iceland. There's a lot different here than abroad. Actually, it was one of those things that got in our way before a crash. It was thought somehow that this could explain, along with the alleged genius of Icelandic investors, how the rise here could happen without a major explosion. I remember very well before a crash warning of a crash, not of such a magnitude as I warned at the time. It seemed pretty obvious to me. There was something crazy about society. It wasn't logical how much money we should have been considering that everyone you knew was in debt to the head, but somehow there was a lot of money. It didn't work out. I'm worried that too much traditional economic theories were used in Iceland, too fast, too early, rather than to stop and try to learn a lesson from Iceland's history and, of course, the world all up to the extent possible in these matters. Like what? 4th, including Smoke. N., Össur Skarphéðinsson, came in and told such elegantly about them, there was no pressure on power as much as in banks. After all, they are vastly powerful institutions. I believe that the community we live in, human society, basically consists of a variety of people's relationships. We communicate in various ways, in language, by doing one another's favour, by praising one another, by having fun with one another, and by arguing from time to time. But there is one system in human society that is underlying and involved in politics and how we organize and organize society, and the common people understand what is least in and even politicians, I dare claim, that is the money system. People don't understand the nature of money. During such a situation, I am concerned that at the high Council, we present a case like this, in a political way, without having enough understanding of society itself and even ours to make informed decisions for a long time. That's one of the reasons I'm staying a little by this bill. Like other members of the council here, I am entitled to form an opinion in the handling of the matter. I don't think it's time to go. It's a big deal we're facing right now, like the job market, which is going to be a problem no matter what happens, that's obvious. It doesn't matter what happens, it'll change something. The situation that we are in right now will change, that should be obvious, as well as the currency capital, which is still one of the changes I would like to avoid being fully understood, not to mention housing and the other bubbles and these bubbles, because the funds are looking in on us to a far greater degree than that. That hypothesis is certainly logical in my opinion, but there is nothing certain that it is true anyway. What makes sense isn't necessarily true. It is full of logical ideas that are not in harmony with reality. Money is the same as any other science. Still another thing. 2m. n.. ............... is how the state earns most of what is available - through sales or profit from banks?...................... I find this to be a more disturbing question than people take the time to meditate properly. What happens during a crisis like that of 2008 is that the state and the general public will be responsible in one way or another for how certain people in the market use their money. The idea is basically that it's private how you invest and take your money. However, when it comes to big banks or major activities, it stops being private and starts caring for all the public. This is usually seen during a collapse, in fact, in a collapse, but rather vaguely observed. Freedom of money, freedom of bank, and freedom of business are viewed as the same thing as freedom of an individual. It's the attitude I strongly warn you about because it's just not the same thing. There are limits to how large and strong a person becomes, but there are no limits to how large and strong a bank can be or an enterprise, and there is a difference. Since business activities may be much bigger than physical or spiritual strength for one person, I suggest that the difference between freedom of business and individual freedom is a fundamental difference that we must not lose sight of when talking about freedom in general. I'm a man of freedom, but the question is not simply freedom or freedom but the nature of freedom and the day of freedom. I despise authority, though I love freedom and realize the philosophical conflict between which it is worth it. But when it comes to economic matters, I do not believe that it is so simple that the financial market is the personal matter of those who participate in it. This is a matter of public interest. The way money is handled is important to the public. In view of the major mistakes we have made in our economic land, regardless of what we are about to take, I feel that we must pause and consider the next steps very carefully and also consider other important factors not available in this particular bill or other closely related elements. I'd especially like to go through the ideas as well. 2.m. Reykv.. n. it is reasonable to present the type of money, the nature of the banking system, the financial system, etc. If the public doesn't understand, and even members of Congress don't understand, we can't make logical informed decisions. I think it's a very serious problem and that it's good for us to discuss it here, not in the gear that we pretend to know everything ahead, but, contrary to the fact that we're talking, as one thought at some point, should be done at the World Congress to the full, and try to look ahead in these matters with humility, for we are not aware of what will happen to the economic system in the future. We're running out of time. Then I'd like to mention one thing that I really value considering in a very broad context. There are fast changes, in nature. If I get this capitalist theory right, then the idea of making a bank is, like, a whale. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson would call it, i.e. The loan of loan loans and investments is that money itself becomes more or less dependent on social value - in other words, in an investment sense, that the amount of money pervading by demand, the demand for financial support is determined by the realistic expectations for future investments, the realistic expectations, I want to underscore. Now we're living in a world that is rapidly changing. I imagine he was never as unpredictable as he was right now. Hence, it is more urgent than ever that we exercise caution, no matter what we do, and not trying to ignore the facts of history because they worked 100 or 200 years ago, they did not necessarily do so after all. We must be especially careful now because we do not know what the real value of the next technological revolution will be. We do not know what valuables are growing in society when drawing, 3D printers, or Internet networks. This means that we are weaker than others, that the swings become bigger, and that is why it is more important now than ever to be careful. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u114	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's speech. It's always fun to listen to him. It was an excellent review of the situation here, as he saw it before and after a collapse. What I wanted to do with the senator is to worry about the situation. I've discussed it many times here in the winter, especially how I feel that this government and its ministers are a great source of power. This has been evident in many of the findings, the last to remember that it was about the Board of Government. Their motive is to draw on authority both from the council and from the general population. I think it's one of the kind that makes that sense. As noted above, the inter number of arms lengths are being cut short, or cut off, from the point of day. We also have a case in terms of higher financial requests. The increase in the number of bank managers has been considered. All of these things come to my senses at the same well, i.e. that politicians are trying to expand their power instead of distributing it. In view of the fact that I'm pretty sure we agree that trust in financial institutions and the General is not good enough, it is. A senator that this is a good way for us to reach the goals we truly need, i.e. building trust in both councils and financial companies by what I'm here talking about and the bill we have here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u115	A respectable president. I am certainly worried about that, and I am always concerned about that when authorities want to take more power. It is independent of whether the power is necessarily a government or in another form. I believe there are more dangerous power institutions than governments, in a sense. In fact, if that is true of the superior authorities, the most successful institutions will ever be, in my best judgement. There are institutions with power that are not so easy to identify. One such institution is a bank, especially their right and ability to make money, as well as theirs. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson has come in. I've felt this particular wording is simple, and it is, but maybe it's exactly what it takes to explain what happens. For the sake of this specified highest. The government is taking on great power, so I also feel, and I worry about how individual people seem to feel about it. In fact, it's unrelated to this matter, but sometimes here are words that remind me of what Benito Mussolini once said when he was asked about what Fascism was doing -- now I am not comparing anyone here to Fascist. I've searched history books, and I haven't found a clear definition; the best I've found was when he was asked what the Fascist policy was. He said: Our policy is simple, we want advice. When people get involved in the solution to problems, they're in control and control, and we're in trouble. This is why it is so important to emphasize transparency and democracy in general. Power corrupts. It'll ruin everybody. I think it's even independent. I don't think you have to be a bad person to abuse power. [[The president calls.]] I think power is basically a dangerous phenomenon in any hand. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u116	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I can quite agree that power can be unfortunate if too much, whoever does it, and especially if it is not properly applied. That's exactly what this case is about to turn to democracy and transparency that we're so talked about here at the General Assembly, and I'd like to think most of the extra. It's one of the kind that I don't feel will reach its purpose in this regard. There's a few things I'm going through. What happened earlier about 8. ... that a minister might take his own initiative in starting sales therapy, is one of the things I feel are about increasing power towards the Minister. Then I'd like to think about Kingdom Halls and Bank County, on the other hand. Now the Bank Management Board has arranged for sales. This was shown in the case of a minister earlier, and I'm next inclined to understand that the people working there do nothing. The minister's words cannot really be interpreted otherwise, so that everything that had to be appreciated and that had to be done has long been appreciated. Then there was knowledge to care for such sales. It's up to the State to do that. Whether this institution has the needed professional knowledge can be considered. On page 18. 6 Again it is said that the Council has reduced the budget to the Bank County, which we know from the budget. It says that the budget for the Agency will be totally canceled. However, the bill should be valid on January 1, 2016, but the Agency has only legal rights until this year's centre. [[The president calls.]] What do you think? A senator of this administration?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u117	A respectable president. I have to agree with it. 4th, including That's the north side. said this bill would be better than what was tried to go through last, i.e. By Christmas. Certainly it is foreign here to spend more money than financial laws assume. Similarly, you have noted that financial resources are not sufficient for what will come to you during the year. I'm generally against it, but saying I don't offer any total solutions to that problem because it seems to be a bigger problem than just one idea can solve it. This is certainly a better way to do this, for this subject raises up a need for discussion that does not necessarily take place when discussing budgets. Regarding the privatization process at 8.g. The bill, I agree with what. paritaprevir Frosti, son of Sigurjónsson, says that one middleman is taken away, which reduces the length of the arm that has been prevalent here. It seems basically bad to me, especially when it comes to this particular group of subjects. That's one of the things I feel uncomfortable about it. When the chairman of a man. This is what the Economic and Business Committee says, and it's sent to what? Then I wondered, " Is it because people want the case on a committee, since they feel it easier to pass without such a tip? ' This indication is justified and necessary in my opinion and should be addressed. I have been serving as an officer on a budget board, of course not anymore, and I have felt that the site of this committee was quite different from what I expect of the reason. The Economic and Business Committee on this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u118	A respectable president. I've been keeping an eye on the discussion today, and she's been doing a little bit of that. Government opposers have been talking to one another, and I have been seeking their arguments against this matter. I heard why. Government senators talk about Benito Mussolini earlier, but it's interesting to discuss that socialist list. Although he was the director of a socialist list in Italy, he believed that it was easier for people to form a team of ethnic groups than classes, thus becoming socialists in a different kind than the traditional one, so to speak. I hope, more dignified President, we are not talking about anything in this matter or other here that compares us to such extremeism. But I think it would be good to cross such socialism, as well as a nationalist who was very prominent at the time, but one of the greatest mass killers in history, Adolf Hitler, controlled it exactly, and it's a warning that such things can happen in our neighborhood and interesting to see how extreme policies can play, not just nations, but in that case, mankind. I remember that Benito Mussolini defined the individual's freedom, making the individual's freedom a part of a strong team, which is such a vivid example of how all concerned people create things. He had the opportunity to communicate his ideas, and they were terrible. It is just as men are here, of course not in any such context with matters, that it is very dangerous for politicians to have too much power. On the other hand, sometimes it is possible for humans to lay up and make some equipment. This is not the case when humans consider these terrible extreme policies and their efforts to see that humans have come along and say that they are going to become the worst people in the world that proved to be so, however, hopefully there was not much worse, and that humans have decided to do it. The way to hell is always a good resolve, even though I doubt that those individuals had good intentions, at least they put it in that outfit. The reason why Germany is under ban is that National Socialists used them in order to set matters right through it so that all things can be abused if they are willing to do so. There's some evidence here. It seems that in this case, there is some power deed to governments that has some special interest in dragging their power and that these are here in question. Name things like a raise in the request, and now everyone knows why. Senators here are what it is. I don't believe that there's a bill involved without knowing it, that it's based on the Directives and regulations of the European Union, and the government has tried to minimize requests, but it's something that's involved in that rule. However, it is said that there is one of the greatest wills. Governments are about to start a bank bonus. I suppose this is done to raise suspicion among the people, and of course it is not good. There are also reports that if there are ideas of increasing the number of bank managers from one to three, it is designed to increase the authority of politicians and the government. This is known to the nature of the matter, as it is not true, since there is a greater probability of having three, rather than one bank manager. Also, people can have all the opinions about whether it is right or wrong. Then you talk about the nature of the banking system. It's just a big problem, and especially in Europe. We are closely related to this Regulation and have actually adopted all our regulations from the European Union, and in this case they have simply delayed the problem. American taxpayers saved the European Union from the 2008 bank bank bank, they actually saved everyone other than us Icelanders. We were lucky there, we had messed up our partnership with the United States, and we didn't get a loan there like any other European nation. It turned out to be a loan, even if people did not react well at the time. There's talk of a government sale that doesn't have enough power, and that doesn't have any opportunity to get to these matters and talk here like the institution - which has costed nearly 400 million. K. in the past six years, she has three men in charge, she has two employees, and a secretary - is absolutely necessary to deal with something that has not been properly defined. It is quite well known, and it says that if you are going to go into the bank sales and personal development, you need to go through the budget and you need to have that discussion. It's quite clear that if we go into that, I don't talk about any more banking agencies coming in, you have to be very careful about it. The Agency with these two employees will not be able to do that. There is a need to call for knowledge elsewhere. Everybody knows why. Elders who have spoken here, but they are more concerned with concealing some strange motive at the highest. Government. I think it's an ugly game, I just want to say it, I think it's an ugly game. Because they talk about the arm length and that the Agency is a key to keeping out - of course, it's an animal institution that costs nearly 400 million. In six years, of course, the cost - she has not been able to keep the arm length away from the fact that politicians are involved in banking, that's just a long way away. And if anyone doubts about it, I encourage people to read a study report on the collapse of the savings, and I encourage people to read section 19.6. It carefully stated that although we were with the Bank Office, we had large banks on Icelandic scale, Keflavík's savings and Byr, despite the endless warnings of experts, whether it was the SEC, the Navy, the bank manager, Mats Josefsson, or the World Bank, all of this is presented in this report. We warned that the route had gone, but this was done at huge expense for the state funds, i.e. taxpayers, and above all, these banking institutions did not meet legal requirements. Now I'm not the first man in this discussion to address issues since the last terms, actually I think it's necessary to do that in order to put things in perspective. If there are any politicians who are concerned whether it's in this government or the next one, it's a matter of fact that she won't stop it from involving politicians in Iceland. That's very clear. Here we go. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphphénsson, who says that a minister has a special family of peace, if I understand it correctly in the short answer to that question. A senator, who may come up against me and correct me if I'm wrong, is somehow so that ministers should not bring issues that are fundamentally important. These fine, excellent things. A senator, Össur Skarphéðinsson, whom I like now, would only worry about comments from a respectable president if I expressed my love rather at the moment. A member of the Parliament came into the Parliament with a case that has split all European countries, which is the main source of war in Western Europe today and also in Eastern Europe, the European Union. [[Up front.]] The Elves are on fire because of the European Union. [["The Elves."]] Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u119	It's not my fault.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u120	Hv. A senator I trust to take an antiquated answer and says that the situation in Europe is not his fault, I think it's right. Senator. I think you're absolutely right about what you're doing. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson is not responsible for all of the European Union's problems. But he, who says that there is a special family of peace with the stewards here made this big war that has split our neighbors apart, such as our friends and cousins, the Norwegians, and there's something wrong with their taking it back, which has caused the matter to divide both families, friends groups, and political parties. They should not belittle it. Hv. A senator will answer for us, and we can talk about it later. Away from the fact that there is a certain will to do the highest. Minister of the present government is suspicious, it sounds like I'm involved with everybody, so it's not just that, it's just the most crystalline problem of handling government matters. Here, no material evidence has been presented for having an entire organization with more executives than employees. There are more executives than employees. I don't think anybody would say: We have to do this to hold on to property, even if everyone could agree that this whole arm length should be in the same way as other things. Is it what they want politicians to be up to in the operation of an apartment loan fund? Do people want politicians to be deeply involved in the whole of Legislation or corporate affairs? I don't think the answer is no, that's not what they want. But are people with institutions around all these federal institutions on property? I can say that if an institution will be set around the firm I mentioned, and the State Radio, and then people would say, "It's not logical, let's put it off, then men can come up with exactly the same argument as right now for maintaining the same situation. The fact is, during the last term - I took it especially before, but I'm sure it has been before - especially since the collapse of the bank, we intended to set priorities, it was a natural term for basic services. It was done. This was prioritised in the interests of institutions that are not associated with basic services, e.g. the agencies, the institutions of the Environment Ministry, the foreign languages, including On account of the EU conflict, because they wanted to get an Icelandic nation into that toll alliance. But then the big savings became relatively publicized in medical institutions, schools, and so on. This can be taken into account by anyone who wants to look at it. That's exactly what it's all about, that's what it's been done. When people listen to the discussion, they may understand why it is. As soon as people bring this matter, which is equally natural, they want to save what can be saved with full respect for the Bank Office. I'm not criticizing the staff there, by the way. For example, I believe the report shows, the assessment the Bank Office made during the last term on the savings fund, the suggestions that were presented to us at ease. A business committee, that if it had been applied, we would be in much better business. But despite the fact that the Agency had already put all that work into it, the local government said: "We don't do anything about it, we just don't care. It may well cost tens of millions of people to make this and have some institution, and it just sounds good. We can talk about arm lengths in speeches and professional management and what this is, but then they just took the report, yes, interesting. Then she just went to the shredr. And our cost from the collapse of the savings fund is tens of billions. On the other hand, if men had taken the course suggested by the Bank Office and if we had taken the way that I did, we would have done. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was taken up in the savings report, and why. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphphénsson had a special look because he wasn't sure if I was doing the right thing, because I was a savings minister, with a vigour County, it didn't cost the taxpayers a cent. [[Up front.]] I think most of the good things that happen in society are connected to Össur Skarphéðinsson's son in some way, but not yet. But on the other hand, I don't remember what. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's mistress has it because he considered this matter especially out of sheer interest. I don't know why -- or, of course, I know that it's not particularly popular with the last polls if you're left with the Piratars who fly here with a pair of skyblades in surveys, but other groups haven't rode a fat horse from trying to do anything that has to do to this government inconvince, but they're going to continue with it. Okay, then they do, but I still call for some chemical argument to happen that a special institution is wrapped in these assets. For if so, let us begin to set up more bank offices, for there is plenty of the estates of the kingdom, and all the evidences that men have made concerning the length of the arms must therefore apply elsewhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u121	Mr. President. Hv. One elder opened his talk by saying that among other things, there is trouble. During this discussion, members of the administrative body would have been talking to one another. The cost is not far from right. A senator because of trouble. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson gave a fine speech, president of the Economic and Business Committee. He criticized this bill, and understanding was all he could do, but he could not accept it as it is. There is an agreed advance on how to treat our share at the Lands Bank. Now I hear what I'm talking about. Senator that he's very supportive of this bill and clearly supports it, but I'd like to ask him why. A senator whether he feels that we are not a problem if it is clear before the bill goes to mention that there is no more to the main idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u122	A respectable president. We are naturally in a certain government covenant, and one of its actions, and I participated in that work, was setting up a suitable group. The objective of the group was simply to try to save money for the sake of government, for obvious reasons. That is always the case, but perhaps especially now. One of the things we specifically examined was the Bank Management Board. There's a good one. Councilmen from the advance party, with me and my men. paritaprevir Unnur Brá, the daughter of Konráðsdóttir, and our conclusion was that it obviously was possible to save. People always forget that when they are extremely generous and talk about things as if they were paying everybody a government fee, they are the people of the country who pay for it. If we have a business at this institution, we will use it for nothing else. If we can reduce the cost in this regard, we can change the money to something else. I believe that all wise senators will support such ideas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u123	Mr. President. There's something else. A senator spoke about in his talk. He spoke of an ugly game for those who criticized the bill and listed something behind that it was not beautiful. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he does not really believe that it is the legitimate criticism that, if compared with Article 1, they are taking greater authority on the minister. the legal management of the government's holdings of financial assets, which speaks of a minister's having the right to sell entirely or part of his property in terms of financial rights and the getting of a proposal from the Bankisle. Eight. it is said that a minister can do so on his own initiative; there is no need to discuss in financial terms at the council or in the company of the party. I'm asking why. A senator whether he feels the lack of transparency and intermediateness in this delicate matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u124	A respectable president. No matter what laws we put, it's not so good to the highest. Minister, whatever it is, can go and sell some things. Hv. There's a senator down there. A legal committee, knowing that we must always agree on this in financial terms. I think it's natural that we approach the situation this way: How can we see to it that sales of these Kingdom interests, like others, become as professional as possible? As mentioned earlier, my presentation of the Agency in my speech did not meet the goals set out, so this alone is not the solution. It's so simple, and if they don't believe me, let them read the NTSB report on the savings fund. That's where it's all set up. I wrote a lot of articles, gave still more talks, and I can go over it at a point. A senator, and we will do so at the moment. In time, there will be a committee. I hope we can talk about it in order to learn from that experience. [[The president calls.]] But this is not the case with the highest degree. Ministers can sell what he wants, in fact, he can sell nothing except by the decision of the Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u125	A respectable president. Hv. A senator began by making mention of this one introduction through Benito Mussolini, in fact, I specifically stated that I was not accusing anyone here of upholding his policy. A senator may not think so, but I found it interesting. The senator then made a somewhat longer explanation than the one here on that subject. It's good and good, and I think it's only appropriate that we have the story in front of us when we talk in general. Now I have no time to go over everything I was going to say, but an example of what provokes suspicion, but of course. A senator calls an ugly game, when threatened with cutbacks against VOLV when the material is strong. Not to a senator, it is to the senator's involvement in the funding of the Humvee at the time of the investigation. Not in a mood - I'm not talking about what. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - god of Thor Þór Þórðarson holds a second - and when the legal case in a reporting case in a leak case is rubbed by another challenge. A senator, and most not least, shuns the highest. Foreign Minister to the EU Parliament. [[The president calls.]] It is suspicious of this government because it behaves as if it is not fit to exercise power. That is why we should consider the legal authority and its treatment here at the High Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u126	A respectable president. It's just an interpretation. A senator of what has happened. I listened to the discussion about the leak report today, and I couldn't see why. A senator would be to criticize it, not materially, the arguments such as. Yeah. paritaprevir Brynjar the son of Níelsson came with or without. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. People may disagree, I disagree. But it is one thing that we disagree about things, but it is another to make it a point to make sure that there is some questionable behavior here or that there is very questionable things in the world. I studied situations where there was a problem. A senator himself was discussing, the bank bonus. Hv. A senator knows that the bank bonuses are in the European Union's Regulation. I am against most types of bank bonuses, I can review it on a long matter, and many of the European Commission's regulations. But we're in the EEA, so it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u127	A respectable president. The reason for the majority of the discussion of the two leak reports was simply because there was no material issue to discuss from the greater part. There were three sentences that kept the matter going. Now I did not mention a bank in my speech, and I will not participate in that discussion here and now because I simply want to listen to others in that regard. But instead of saying something about this subject, I'd rather not because of it. A senator asked about a material attitude toward this particular bill, to turn it back on the material path. Counts 'em out. A senator, in the light of currency heads, wisely go into the bank's privatization process while finding a way to get rid of the currency capitals or how does he see the privatization of banks in relation to that? This is a huge project, a waste-of-a-fue, that I would have thought would require a certain amount of space to evaluate, both the consequences of it and just what to do. I'd love to hear about sights. A senator on the connection between the decommissionment of currency and the privatization of banks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u128	A respectable president. I can talk fast, but if I can answer all this in one minute, I don't know. However, the big picture is this: A third - largest budget is interest payments. We make more money to grow every year than we can to the entire budget of the Land Hospital and all the contributions made to Medical Insurance combined. As we do this and this situation exists, we are in an orderly way reducing the standard of living for our children and grandchildren. It's just that simple. On the other hand, we have property, and if we sell it, we can avoid debt. [[Up front.]] Then we need to set priorities for basic services. But even when it comes to such an inch that you would think everyone would agree, where there are some tens of millions of people we can use in another way, opposition will always arise. That's exactly how it works. It doesn't matter where you come down. Even the media room. We didn't have a press agency from high school to 2011, and it was all right. [[The president calls.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u129	A respectable president. There's a lot of stuff on the bill that I really like. I think we're all pretty much in agreement, that this is a case we're supposed to be able to settle about. We want the process to be clear when it comes to selling the property of the state. We want professional work. We want to avoid the privatizations of the past and the project is in fact - because there is little trust between my share and the government, and there is nothing new, so it was during the last term - building trust. I want to ask you why. A senator - this is the same question that I asked the highest. Secretary of finance - see if he sees that the advisory committee is not merely appointed by the Supreme Court. Rather, a minister becomes more independent; that the lesser part, or the frame, would come to her, or in some way make her more independent, by otherwise appointing her, whether or not to think of any such compromise to understand the matter. I think we'll agree on that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u130	A respectable president. At least I agree with what. A senator's objective is to talk about subjects, assignments, and how we can approach them, and trust is one aspect. Then all we have to do is go over it, and that's why we're on the committee. I believe, however, that it is of the magnitude, when it comes to the privatization of banks and other personalizations, that it is a very special goal that it is not just about control and opposition. There's nothing good that there's always a measure of pressure between government and government, so the taxpayers are often in trouble. The government's position is to criticize us in the administration team completely ruthlessly; provided it's made objectively and based on facts, it's all fine. For many reasons, when it comes to selling state property, it must be done in such a way that the highest trust in a kingdom. We in the greater part of the budget have wanted to highlight the invitations and other factors because this is not enough. Let's talk about it. I'm not gonna rule out anything in that context, but I'm not gonna answer for some individual senators right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u131	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I'd like to ask something: " I'm a little surprised that this case will be referred to why. The budget board where I have a seat where I thought it belonged to a financial and business committee like a bank case over a head; also because a financial committee has a huge number of important jobs now, for example, to complete the laws on government funds. Happily, we are working very well on it and on a solid basis, but we do not have time to complete that matter. I'm a little surprised that this matter is referred to as a financial committee, and I ask why. That's the case with a senator. I'm sure there's a little bit more time for a financial and business committee to go on and also that it belongs directly there. It's about to turn to banks and even though it's about to be about selling state property, it's not until we sell the banks it's selling on state property, page 6. permissions. This bill feels like I belong on a Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u132	A respectable president. That's absolutely impossible. If we talk about a time doctor, it's perfectly clear that the matter is much better at home, if we've thought about finishing the case, in that case. It's a legal committee. There's much less to go around. It's a legal committee, but what's wrong. The Economic and Business Committee. Things that have changed with this why. The legal committee is that we have been accepting assignments in the spring months that may not have been as much done before. We are naturally well along with the public financial situation, and then we are very hard to monitor for what happens in the government, and that is much new. Of course, we can do the same for the summer, and we will meet as we have in the summer months. It's not bound at the council time. I've just seen the list, I think there's two dozens of cases that are available at the mouth. The Economic and Business Committee. It is my opinion that the business of government is more relevant. It's a legal committee, and special cases like this. In fact, I'd like to get more issues into them anyway. Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u133	Mr. President. Hv. A senator speaks of trust. He thinks it's likely to create confidence in taking sales of state's parts at banks almost into the desk. Secretary of finance? Sports scare them out of fear. I was in this room in 2002 and 2003 when the banks were private. I saw the leading members of the administration taking huge jumps, disappearing here in the Hall of Congress, abandoning their declared policy on the possession of scattered property, and finally the banks were placed into the hands of people who had political ties. This was known in 2009 by the establishment of the Banks. That is why. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - minded Þór Þórðarson wrote under the committee's opinion that the reason for the need to maintain and establish this arm - length policy was to create a distance between political power and financial power. What's changed, boy? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u134	A respectable president. I was not at a council in a time of private development for the first. A senator refers to, but I think I remember. At that time, a senator rejoiced in the manner he had taken. Hv. A senator would correct me if I wasn't, so you can look it up. I don't understand. I don't understand. A senator is always nice, why he never listens to my talks. I urged him to respond, but I assumed that he had listened to what I said. [[Up front.]] Why did you listen? Not a senator on my speech? I carefully reviewed the point of arm length, that despite an institution that costs a lot of money, it didn't work out during the last term. [[Up front.]] I agree that we should have the arm length, but it is absolutely clear that the Agency was not enough. Hv. A senator would not listen to my speech, but he would like to read the report on the savings fund and maybe explain, because he was in the government, why they acted so closely with SKef and Byr, and why they did not comply with the Bank Department's proposal for savings?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u135	Mr. President. I'm willing to take up a discussion about the savings fund at what point. A senator anytime he wants. Now, however, I am entitled to ask him in his speech. Why don't we say things straight as they are? There are very few who are interested in putting down the bank office. It turns out that the advance party is against it. The head of the fiscal and tax committee considered a strong argument against it. V.E.G. The minister of financial matters was not exactly strong in the faith when he gave his story talk. Where did the idea come from? She came from two members of the council. One was a whisker. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þórðarson, the other was why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. It's the famous cutting committee, the committee that went over here with the mountaintops and sang about the sky, and presented tremendous suggestions on how she was going to save on government business. One by one, such suggestions have fallen to the ground like shot by birds. It's one of the few left. That's why we're so nervous. A senator like kneeling down an institution he himself supported in 2009. That's not why. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u136	A respectable president. I don't know what it's like to have supported the agency, but I think it's a good thing that, though clearly expressed. A senator did not mention that he supported the route that had gone into the privatization in his day. I can't believe it. In this regard, a senator is not planning anything bad. [[Up front.]] However, there was still an organization to keep their possessions in place; there were still two banks with a operation that was run by the government, the government as far as it was concerned. The senator was in. When it comes to the eco-employment committee, I'm afraid. To study more than 100 suggestions, a senator sees what will be done by them. [[Up front.]] Hv. A senator wants to call in because he does not want to discuss these things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u137	I want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u138	Of course it is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u139	I love a senator, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u140	A respectable president. Can you calm down? A senator. He's kind of upset.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u141	The president begs to give a speaker a sound.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u142	A respectable president. I have every reason to believe that I will fight for the well-being of the public tax. I've done so until now and will continue to do so, for there's plenty of work to put the money in, including in basic services and in paying off debts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u143	Madam President. We'll discuss the bill for the legislation on the management and sale of the government's property in financial companies. I'd like to start by talking about how to do the highest. The minister referred the case to a committee. That is shown in paragraph 13. The conference on the Economic and Business Committee to the National Committee, by permission of Presidents, in general, in business, including banking, financial and pension, as well as tax and customs. A financial committee is certainly dealing with the property of the State. Since the establishment of the Bank Office, all this coverage has taken place in a business committee, and I find it quite odd that the minister would choose to refer the matter to a completely different committee. I hereby suggest that the case be referred to an economic and business committee where I believe it belongs, and I declare a surprising memory of the rest. It was shown in the case of the head of the Economic and Business Committee that he has doubts about the matter and that this may be the reason why there is a greater likelihood that the chairman and vice president of a legal committee are in favor of the case, or the head of a legal committee on the part of the forward party. As has been tore up today and presented in speeches, including The head of the Economic and Business Committee, what? paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, is, in effect, contrary to approval at the National Assembly of the Agency that the Bank Office will be canceled, and the sale of the property of the Lands Bank, to the sale of 30%. Of course, it is acceptable to refer to matters that are not of the sole mind, but if it is so, the House of forward Christians have paid this vote at their council a little special if there is absolutely no objection. People have to deal with them, but we at the government stand are wondering if we are discussing a case that is not even more important at the council. V.E.G. The secretary of finance could not answer whether this was the case, but most of all, I find it unacceptable to go against the council, in view of the fact that a financial and business committee is involved in banking matters and that since the establishment of the Bank Management Board, all coverage of it and more and less all that concerns it, reports and other activities have been done have been discussed in this committee. That's what I wanted to say in the beginning. As we have seen today, there are some things on the bill that are fine and things that are less fine. The story of the Bank Office is traced, how it came into existence, why and I think it's a reason we ask why the Bank Department was set up. Why was that course decided? This is because one of the reports of the Allied Research Committee pointed out that there was a need to make more distance because of the way we handled personal resources and how we handled our financial companies. This is an arrangement that has gone well, and it feels like there's some bait in it. It's because my sense is that it's almost taken off rather than decommissioning the Agency. We are faced with the expected loss of at least two major banks in our possession, and we also need to hold our savings, the remaining ones. Now the matter is beginning to take on the form that the Bank Office was supposed to take care of, and that makes it hard for the Minister to speak as if there was nothing to be done, as I said in the antiquated court, to think that the staff there and the executives did nothing, whether it was worth the Lands Bank all day long. The arrangement may well be changed, but putting it down is not dangerous. That is shown in paragraph 13. that the element is January 1st, 2016, and then the law on the Bankisis will fall. On page 18. 6 presents an occasion and the need for the legislation, which reviews the Generals decision to reduce the budget to the Bank Office by nearly half. As memorablely, the funds were to be dropped into budgets in the last fall, which actually appears here, and as it was proposed in the fall, the funds to the Agency were completely dropped. We're better able to fix it, end up planning to operate the Agency until the middle of the year, but there's no budget that's about to pay and other things at Bank County. The minister realized that, and it was correct. As I say, the Bank County Act should not fail until January 1st, 2016, and then there's bound to be a lack of funds in the Bank County, it can hardly be stopped because the law applies to it until the end of the year. There's got to be something that's coming into the budget. I understand at least. That's it. It would be fine if someone corrected me in that regard. And it is also that the knowledge generated by the Bank Office, both the Committee and the employees, is important, as is the case in most others who handle such specific matters. According to 1 0... The bill is the Kingdom Hall intended to formally handle the sales therapy on behalf of the state and to oversee negotiations with external advisers. It must cost something. Then a minister can seek the direction of the Advisor Committee for suggestions or offers made by the Kingdom Hall. Without minimizing the staff of Ourselves, you wonder if you are moving to a certain community agency because it is more convenient to do so. I have been told that I feel that this government has taken a considerable amount of power, and many bills have meant that they are being drawn to it. I think this bill is one of them, because in Section 8. states that a minister may take his own initiative to decide to initiate the sale of the individual financial assets of the state. He doesn't have to sign it to anyone. I'm not going to let him do it, but he doesn't have to do it, the case is set up like that, and that's just too much power. I want the General to have more to do with it, and I also believe that if we find anything wrong with the present arrangement, for example. When it comes to a command in the bank or the administration of the bank or anything like it, we can correct it. One way we can do this is by increasing the arrival of the assembly, rather than by handing it over a minister. Of course, money has gone to this institution, but let us not forget why it came into existence. It was because financial institutions were unwary. We're thinking about $2,250,300 billion of our possessions. We earn tens of billions of dollars a year and an institution worth 50 million. K. In business every year while we're trying to sell this property, there's only a drop in the ocean, and then I'm not trying to downplay the fact that we have enough money to do, but it's very valuable. The way it is handled is of great value, and it is of enormous importance. It is important to have credibility and to build up the trust we have so much in society, members of Congress, and even financial institutions. I agree with the people here who have spoken and told them we should wait with this and take the bait instead of the other. The progress was well reviewed earlier today, or the communication between the Ministry and Advisor Committee that is being drawn out here, i.e. under the law in force there is a specific procedure between the bank office, the selection committee and the Ministry which includes in that a minister should have written address and that committees must be submitted, etc. We must always want to do better than what's happened, and that's what I think we're doing here rather than put down the Agency. Today it has been said that it is unfortunate to keep this in the Ministry because we don't have a business agency that used to run the financial market. The surveillance and implementation are now the legislation, all in the same place. It can't be considered reassuring, and now that governments come almost by orders from this committee, when a minister has approved it, e.g. in the National Bank, all of this is what was said here, bringing one step closer to a minister than before. I liked the tour of the Chairman of the Economic and Business Committee when he considered the role of the Lands Bank as a direct focus on community financial institutions. I think it's a lot more interesting than selling the property. I'd like to own the bank, that's what I think, but there might be some difference of opinion about it. For this bill there's a lot about it, but in view of the fact that we want to increase our independence, I want to try to trust in transparency and credibility, as stated here, in the treatment of property and sale, I don't think it's an operation to do that. There is talk of building stronger administrative units within the Ministry of Economic Affairs, and it is as if all of this is going to happen. Therefore, it is not unusual for you to ask yourself: Is the Ministry of finance - which, of course, has had to undergo surgery, such as any other agency, not forgetting that it had a cut of 5%, just like the other Ministry, just 15 minutes before Christmas 2013, and that was just a matter of human development - ready to take over? Since the Advisor Committee is the site within the Ministry, i.e. The three members appointed by the Minister have job and meeting facilities as well as the Ministry provides information and information, calculation and other necessary services, is basically part of the Ministry's advisory committee. To me, it's not a uniquely active arm length. I can't see it. There may be evidence to argue, but I don't think the bill does.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u144	A respectable president. It's quite clear to me that this is a bad bill, I think it's strange, and then it might be said that it would be a bit scary when it came to the purpose of one of the administrations at least to sell the Lands Bank or 30% in it, which I'm so not at all opposed, and hopefully some people would buy the other two banks, then they should bring all the decisions on this subject just at the cost of finance. We've had some very poor personal development, and we've already had and have been adopted at the Parliament's resolution to investigate the privatization of banks of the past, and I think we should do so before we begin to reduce the development of the banking institutions now. We cannot always fall into the trap that because something costs money and maybe more money to do things that way, but somehow it's bad. I did not have the opportunity to listen to the entire discussion, but it was suggested that this bill was the primary source of the economy of the government, which also wanted to collapse the development community organization, and that was their suggestion of no. 23rd Has a what? A senator's opinion of the fact that this was largely a means of saving something?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u145	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yeah, that's one of their suggestions. Well, I happen to, because I mentioned earlier that the bill is referred to a budget board, that the economy is the only option group that sits there. Brá She's the head of the General and Education Committee, but the other three are in there. [[Up front.]] [[Taken out: abduction.]] It's good to save, and it's good to save on money, as it is elsewhere, but it matters what the purpose is and I don't think the purpose here is sacred. If we believe that we are baiting the government's arrangement today, I feel that, while we are in the uncertainty of our present day regarding both the delinquency and the sale of banks and financial institutions, we are rather to pause. That's right, there's a lot of things you can do for 50 million. At the same time, I still believe that money is well spent in keeping your arms around it and the knowledge that has developed there. I think we should do what we think is wrong rather than put the Agency down at this point. I'm not sure that the way this is going to be is the best way to go. I agree with that. A senator that we do not have good experience in personalization, and of course we can say that the steps are frightening. That is why it is quite surprising for members of the council who wrote the last term's second - term title "Longitude," because they thought it wasn't working well enough, but they are not ready to fix the baits. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u146	A respectable president. I deeply agree with a member of Congress, and the last thing I want is for someone to take my word, so I don't want to save money in the government. We've talked about it before in a speech chair, me and you. The vice president of the legal committee, that we agree on one thing, and that is the need for legal discipline. But saving is not simply a matter of cutting down on practices, transparency, and doing things right. I'd like to what. A senator might give me a heads-up because I feel I can read it out of the bill that it's a result of something suggested on the budget bill, but wasn't it the other way around? Was it not so that in the budget bill, no money was expected to be placed in the Bank Office, and the management part had to be put in because this bill had not been submitted, a little in the direction of the transfer to the Fish Room, men just decide something but have no authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u147	A respectable president. This may well be what happened, and as I discussed earlier, the Agency was to be knocked off during the past few years despite the fact that there was no bill on it, and it was not even assumed to be a budget once the decision was made to have it worked until the end of the year. This was but a little clumsy, but they saw it, and they made it right. But it does not change that the question remains: If the law is valid on January 1, 2016, what will happen to the Agency from mid-year to year? What will be the treatment of these cases, and who will be the existence of the Agency for the next six months because the funds will certainly extend until the middle of the year?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u148	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Following a collapse, both in our community and in this Assembly Hall, there was a lot about how we could restore the trust we had lost. Our confidence in politicians began to diminish, and we have not been able to recover, as we would have liked. I feel that this bill is promoting suspicion and distrust rather than promoting greater trust. The personalization of the banks was highly critical, and they talked much about the arrival of politicians. Some have even said that the privatization of the banks was the root of the problem, that everything got out of hand, and that it collapsed in our head. I want to ask you why. A senator, because this has been discussed here today, how to reconcile the politicians in this process and reduce their suspicion. They say, "Here are the halves, "and they will take care of their own, etc. Earlier today, it was said that it might be advisable to put together a transboundary surveillance committee, to keep even an adaptor that is the Bank Management Board, and that the committees could gain added force, and then we would have a parapolitic committee that would have something to say about the process. What does it say? A senator on this? Does she think that this could lead to greater trust and a lack of suspicion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u149	Madam President. The majority of this bill clearly believes that by establishing an independent advisory committee, there is a trust in transparency and credibility. I don't think it is, and I agree that the privatization of old banks is the root of this problem that we faced; and in fact, we are still faced because things are not solved. Whether the political bitch can be reconciled by having a transnational surveillance committee, if I have correctly understood the senator, that it will be some kind of compromise between the Bank Office and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, as well as the legal committee and the Economic and Business Committee - I don't know. It may well be possible then to make peace with members of Congress, but we will always be confronted with the fundamental question of whether the length of the arm is still there, i.e. The one we want to get. If anyone thinks he has failed or has not worked well enough afterwards, then we should fix it, then we should not necessarily make something else. I'd rather remove the political bitch from such a big and important matter to earn it back. I think that's more of a strength to the nation, i.e. for us senators, in terms of gaining trust, that we are less involved in this and that this is more in the hands of a particular professional. Also, people cannot be accused that they are prodding their toes or anything like that. But if this should be some formal transfer device, I'm not entirely convinced.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u150	Madam President. In recent years, we saw that within the council, there was a natural pass bill, and we knew that it was not an agreement within the governments. Here's a national budget that speaks of the sale of a 30% share in the Lands Bank. We'll discuss this bill to legalize the government's sale of financial assets, and most of the chapter must be about the big part of us that we're going to sell in the Lands Bank. Who thinks what? A senator whose end is this bill? May we not conclude that this bill is similar to that of the natural pass, where it is evident that there is no unity within the board of directors on how to handle the property, whether a head should sell a share in the Lands Bank, or what his role should be?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u151	Madam President. It is true that there is no clear agreement on this matter rather than on many others, as we have seen here. Hv. The head of the Economic and Business Committee said it was all right for the case to come in to discuss it. It would be possible to make changes in the affairs of the council. That, then, may be what the laymen expect. I'd like to remind you that the candidates also put in advance the merit tax, the food tax, but 1% was enough. I sure hope they'll do better on this. It's their agreement at the National Congress that is behind them. I don't know exactly what it was about the food tax. I certainly hope that members of the party are on their feet in this regard. I think the case is referred to as a trust committee because it is more likely that it will be accomplished by the candidates on that committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u152	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It's been very interesting to listen to what happened. Overseers speak to one another. It's obvious you can save money, just not in the state business. I don't think it's any place to go, it's all the worst. In fact, saving the budget is one of the most serious things that has come in, so to speak. Generals of the Council. As we know, this institution was originally to keep track of the property of the banks, and the three major business banks were to be in the state along with a lot of the savings system. The conclusion was that it only became the Lands Bank and a few very small savings, but the real share of the big savings, SKef and Byr, was never in the Bank County, despite a law against it, as we know. We talked about it a little earlier, and I'm not going to go over it. Hv. A senator said that knowledge in the Agency could disappear. It's two employees. They think that if this institution is put down, which has cost 400 million. By K., does the knowledge of these individuals go away? I have to admit, I don't understand this whole lawsuit. We live in Iceland, we're not in China where people are somewhere far away. These are two excellent individuals, who are there, with good knowledge, as far as I know the most intimate individuals. But what knowledge will be gone? They do not forget what they now know, and the data do not go away if this institution is put down - or if so. Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u153	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. What I meant, when I was talking about Kingdom Halls being assigned to take care of this rather than the bank office now, I believe that there has been an accurate knowledge of the environment we are dealing with in this relationship. I am not convinced that this knowledge is there at Kingdom Halls, but I do not intend to reduce the fact that Kingdom Halls are undoubtedly the most potential people. A senator put it this way about the staff of the Bank County. I'm talking about the committee and the employees. I think we should respect the work that has been done there. That's why I've said here that if we don't feel that something didn't go exactly right - in the light of the senator's position, who opposed me - in the last term on this matter, I'd like to correct it while the situation is as sensitive as it is, in the light of the situation and in the light of the fact that we still have unsatisfied possessions. It has worked so that it was slow to get us out of the situation created by the collapse of the financial system. I can ask the Senator back if he doesn't think that he himself doesn't have to go all this way but that he can fix it, what he thinks they are doing, rather than put the Agency down at that point. How does he look at the date of January 1, 2016, what will be the result of the Agency from the middle of this year up to the end of the year? There is something that we may be able to communicate about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u154	A respectable president. We can't fix it, and we can put the big financial institutions that went upside down after the collapse of the bank back into the Agency. They're out of their heads, SpKef and Berr are out of their heads. The share of them was never in the Bank Office, although the law determined that a share of a bank owned by the state should be in the bank county. Now that financial institutions are gone, the account has reached taxpayers, so we don't fix it. Someish stuff about how things are going to happen - that's probably what we're going to go through to the wind. It's a legal committee. I know there's been some experience at what. A senator who has spoken here will make good comments and will review them along with another report. Council members of the budget board. It's just a practitioner. But these are two employees. Their knowledge will not go away if we lay down the Agency, but we will not be able to correct the mistakes involved in the failure of the bank administration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u155	Madam President. Yeah, we can fix things. The Senator claimed that something had not come up, and then we can fix it so that it will not happen again. There can't be any reason to lay down the bank office that the senator believes that two savings have not gone into the bank county, as he mentions, that I'm not going to take sides with. This does not mean that the Agency should be laid down because it feels that it has not worked. Even the politicians didn't even work, did they? [[Up front.]] When the privatization of banks took place over the years earlier, politicians did not function, and the exact same thing is being done again. We're going back to the past by bringing this into the Ministry, and that's what we need to be careful about. We don't have to burn ourselves in the same things many times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u156	Madam President. We'll discuss the management of the government's sale of financial assets, but before I go over it, I'd like to discuss only the financial programme and what it says when we speak of the Lands Bank and our share in financial institutions. A budget was submitted a few days before the forwarding party party party party party party party. It speaks of the urgent task of reducing debt in the government of government. The situation is covered, and the total interest rate of 2009 is incorporated at about 580 billion, which is no small amount. We've just been paying $801⁄290 billion. A year in debt, and I certainly agree with what the government's budget says that the most important thing in the government of government is to reduce debt. When a nation stands as if we owe it to a debt of 1,500 billion dollars. we're very weak, and we don't tolerate external trauma, and I'm just afraid of the independence of the nation if something happens, so I'm sure I'll accept that this is an urgent assignment. As the national budget continues, it is said to reduce the debt level significantly during the 2016-52019 period as compared to GDP, from 68% of GDP to about 50% at the end of 2018, an ideal situation. But the decrease in debt ratio is mainly due to a 25% increase in GDP, which is quite high. The value of the debt is dropped by less than 10%, and there are two factors involved. It's that our currency will be reduced and then sold to 30% of our holdings at the Lands Bank and to smaller parts at Arion and Iceland Bank, so that most of the subsidies, to name money, comes from the sale of our shares in banks. That's supposed to give us $33/4 billion. At interest costs and budgets for 2015, we are expected to pay off debts of 355.5 billion dollars. who are expected to come from the sale of these parts. It's a very good shield, and it's going to work again for 2016. Then a convention of the candidates is held, and it is adopted as a suggestion. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, not to sell anything in the Lands Bank and also to agree on its role which is totally in conflict with what is presented in the national budget itself. I expect that plan was adopted by the government, or what? V.E.G. Ministers of the forward party have expected to agree with the programme, which includes sales of property items at the Lands Bank and the highest. Based on this, the prime minister is expected to do so. Then the party council arrives, and then it's approved. All right, let's call it a day. In other words, the government budget had been submitted before the Council, but then a bill is proposed to treat the government's holdings on financial funds. It is suggested after the approval of the advance party, after the obvious reason. Residents don't want to sell 30% in the Lands Bank, and they have certain ideas about their role and practices. However, the bill has probably passed through the government and the Supreme Court. Ministers of the forward party, including the Supreme Court. The prime minister accepted it. This is made clear in paragraph 7. that it is assumed that the government should be sold in the Bank of Lands. More than 70% of the bank's total share is allowed to do this. Mrs. President will have to forgive me if I really don't understand anything about this. It's like the bills go through the highest. A government with the highest consent. Ministers and they go out of the council groups and then die their Lord, as the natural pass goes under. Well, it seems to me that the government budget, at least. partly in terms of subsidies, and this bill here on sale of the state's holdings will go the same way. This is at the highest level of control. Governments are a mystery to me. Here we go. paritaprevir This bill was discussed earlier by Frosti Sigurjónsson, and I can count on almost most of the people he said about it. He wondered, " Is it really time to ask for a change in the property trade and whether it really was for improvement? ' Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson didn't think it's right that the budget and the economy could keep up with the situation, he found a number of reasons, maybe it wouldn't be good for a Ministry of Affairs to handle a holding section, and he said it's unfortunate to take this interaction out of the process, i.e. take the bank business out of the process. Then he doubted that Kingdom Halls would be sufficient knowledge to take care of the trade process. Now I do not know, but perhaps there is knowledge there that can be used. Then you wonder. A senator, who is also chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, whether it is a reason to change what has been going well, the process adopted in December 2012 and the Act on the Banks that were approved in the autumn of 2009. He was talking about transparency, and this bill wasn't enough. Under these things, I can take it with you. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Siglejonson, president of the Economic and Business Committee and member of the Agency, gave the proposal for the role of banks and sales of property at the advance council. The above issue does not agree on which the committee should address this matter. V.E.G. The Secretary of Economics and Economics wants it to go to the budget board. I'm not surprised, in itself, because there are three of the four heads. Councilmen who appoint a government economist; chairman of the budget board, vice president of the budget committee, and then assistant to Prime Minister, all three are members of the budget board as the Supreme Committee. Minister wants to read about the bill. This concludes with a report by the economist group, but it returned, as it is known, 111 suggestions on how to manipulate the government, in motion of No. The State Department of Economic and Economic Affairs will be laid down and its projects will be moved to the Ministry of Economics. The proposals of the economy are certainly being followed, but this is so that it arouses suspicion and is certainly not a failure to promote greater trust. It has been reviewed in our discussion today that when the privatization was carried out on the banks of the time, the political bitch had his fingers in it, completely in the middle of nowhere. It is claimed that the bank crash began to suffer disaster, and it did not turn out well, and there are, of course, the people in the country who have been costing them all. We don't want to go back to that place. It was the very idea of an approved date in December 2012 to try to make sure that there was transparency, and it would likely be that politicians were not assigning property shares in the banks to those they liked. I'm worried about what's going on at 8. This bill. Compare it to Article 1. under law adopted in December 2012, it speaks of a minister of finance being authorized to sell property items in the banks after approval in a budget bill and that of the Council of Banks. The committees are then referred to, just as in this bill that we deal with here and the Federal Bank in the same way. But 8th. This new bill, corresponding to Article 1. In the relevant law, it is said that a minister of finance can only do this on his own initiative and then take along to counsel a group of three people, if I recall the rights that he himself has made. Madam President. This is not to meet the expectations that we politicians promote trust in society and earn greater confidence in society. This has been the principal problem in society since collapse, lack of trust in key institutions in the community, and in politicians. True, I don't think I have to worry that this bill will be approved because the government groups don't agree on that. I can't see what's going to happen to this bill, and I predict that the bill will be the same fate as the key to nature. However, the matter came into the council, which is a prime theme, a big issue of inunification, such as, for example, the U.S. The bill of changing the fishing system, which never came into this council. So the government doesn't agree. I'm sure the president is talking about it to the board of directors... that it's not good enough to be wasting our time at the council, when there are many other important matters... to discuss a bill that we know will never be accepted because the government groups are not united in the matter. I'm afraid to say that over this bill is the natural pass syndrome as well as other primes from the highest level. Government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u157	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech, ending a former financial minister on the move. I'd like to ask about the changes to make it a matter of being in the bank office and in the bosom of the secretary of finance with the Advisor to keep and trust. It has been reported that there can be a range of between 40 and 750 million. K. annual savings according to the bank's operating expenses, this cost today is about 95 to 100 million. K. It was stated that new levels need to be added to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, two to three, and here, it is said that the cost could also be around expert and counseling costs. This could result in a higher than two or three levels. See what? A senator when it comes to rationalizing this change because of saving and financing when the financial or financial property of the state - we are talking about 2,50,300 billion today as a share of the state's property in the financial industry, saving up to 40,650 million. might it not be large in the context of protecting a part of the State and treating it if any part of the State has to be sold?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u158	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. It is true that there is a figure of savings that could amount to 40 to 50 million. K. Each year, and I have no doubt that the financial and economic systems are correctly calculated, but if there's not a problem with selling these items, that could be much more. So I think we have to watch that we keep the setting so that when we sell these items, people don't have to doubt that they get the right price first, they're selling on time, and all the setting and process are fine, because it's easy to lose this benefit, 40 to50 million when it's sold that big. Besides, Madam President, I think it's very unreasonable, and I'm actually a little surprised at it. The financial and economic minister should go to the high level of ice surmounting the sales of bank property parts, which promote suspicion and rumor that there are 50-50 groups here and now to repeat the game and that they now have someone in mind whom they would like to infect with this part of the estate that is owned by the nation. It just causes suspicion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u159	Madam President. If this mechanism of action isn't all about saving in the end, then you ask yourself, is it about some professional advantage? These two things usually go together if you want to change something into the national administration system or just a head of society, to see them together, to save, and to some professional advantage. Now it has been said that the government's financial and financial assets are under the same law, and all of this will be under law, if necessary, under the same Ministry. Counts 'em out. A member of the body of elders that it is possible for a good government to do so in this way? Is it not a matter of credibility when both are under the same department? A sensitive group like this, there should be more than an arm length between them. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. And what happened next also happened. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurvensson. In his case, he said that he was not very interested in the development of this change and the banking business, but he basically suggested that it be added and added to a financial committee. Gonna go for it. A senator who accepts reconciliation therapy between the forward party and the Independence Party and achieves anything that they couldn't agree with before presenting this bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u160	Madam President. Yes, it will be interesting to participate in the work that is expected us to do at work. It's a legal committee. True, there is some here who do not agree that the bill should be carried on that committee, and it may be that when a vote is made, that proposal will fall. Minister, and I suppose so will be. I guess the candidates will support that the bill goes to an economic and business committee where it will be. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson is chairman. But the government's eco-efficiency team seems to have a lot of power, but I can't believe that these changes are carried out, just to please the mood. Councilmen in charge of the economy, I don't believe it. I prefer to believe that the suggestions of the group are used as an excuse for going into this process. As I said before, I'm surprised to hear it. Ministers should go to the top of the ice. There are insufficient criticisms, enough frustration is now at the highest level. The government and the distrust of the executives. Governments. They may wonder: They trust us anyway, so let's just move on, who knows? But this bill is not likely to increase confidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to pause at the senator's words and word exchanges that were at the last in terms of trust. I think there's a persistent problem in Icelandic politics, and it doesn't need me to argue with it, because it's been our subject ever since the collapse. As noted in my committee opinion, when a bill for the Bankiscation Act was here, the community felt that the requirement for a minister's authority was reduced, that the requirement in the community was to reduce the authority of the minister. This bill suggests that the same people are asked to increase their privileges, to actually increase the Minister's office. Eight. The bill shows that a minister is expected to be able to take his own initiative, or at the request of the advisory committee, to decide to initiate the sale of the individual financial resources of the state. And he should seek the advice of the consulting committee. Who appoints the Advisor Committee? It's him himself. We have several examples from the current government of how the Supreme Court works. Ministers put in committees. V.E.G. A minister of education and culture appointed to the Board of Governments of Icelandic students solely independent. Here we are referring to a committee as the highest. A minister of finance would order, and how would it be arranged? Does the senator believe that the social demand for a minister's authority to be reduced has been reduced? I feel that this bill was totally a sign that it is the right thing to say. The minister of finance and the government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunougsson is out of contact with the public in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u162	Madam President. I just have to say the word. A senator's appearance seems to be a breach, a lack of understanding, which is certainly surprising because he has a problem. A senator went over earlier was similar. Congress officials are very loud in the requirement to increase the authority of the council. Therefore, as discussed earlier today, they should joyfully accept ideas about a transboundary monitoring committee. It is naturally a bit characteristic of the management hearing that almost no matter where you look down, when you look at the commissions, it is as if they had changed their minds completely, and now you think that what was good for a collapse should be restored. The last government provided such a good estate and community status so pleasantly that all trust has been built up and now no longer need to be built, and now it may continue as these same groups were before a collapse. But this must prevent us from happening again because it will only take the interest of the people in the country if we allow them to continue. What may make me happy, and I hope it is that the candidates will have trouble. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, the leader of state, will stop the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u163	A respectable president. Now that this fine government is becoming two-year-old May 23, it is the second half, and the picture will begin to explain what this process is all about. One of them is that we might start to put in a list of matters about taking over to the Ministers, removing the government of the people, removing the council and drawing them to the ministers. Another is what is becoming more common today as the season unfolds, that is, what was presented in the matter at any time. A member of the council here repeatedly makes a case in which there is a very decisive difference between the members of the board and even so far as to be dead before they get to the committee. Hv. A senator could say so well earlier that he spoke of the natural rights syndrome, i.e. that cases are not even addressed and in the discussion process, when they are actually done. This happened with the natural pass that had been passed before he came to the committee. We can name the natural pass, we can name the bank bonuss, a case that is now in the Economic and Business Committee, and the forwarding team have come to a conclusion. We can refer to the branch office's housing products, which are trapped and held hostage in the Ministry of finance. We can name the fishing system. And we can mention what's going on here over and over again that it's voting, or it's the practice that's developing here that ministers here refer to the committee they're most likely to do, as they please rather than according to the council. It's all for a lot of thought. It is really remarkable to not listen to the chairman of the Economic and Business Committee for the matter, and actually give a speech that all of us here in the government opposition would be completely doomed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u164	Madam President. It's all right. It's all right. A senator crossed, and in itself it is a serious matter when they govern or I allow myself to say, the limit of my ability. Governments to handle matters successfully bring about solutions are as true as the case. Still, there may be small issues listed here compared to what is taking place at a job market these days. Much of the responsibility for doing so can be written to the highest level. A government that has behaved in such a way that complete distrust is and the requirement for justice becomes louder than it cannot be answered. It's a very serious situation. When the public looks at the highest. Governments provide the richest people in the country with housing benefits, commercial roads that are in a state of intense increase, etc., but to save expenses in the state's funds, the terms of long - term employment are not ideal, so we now take the example, when compared, in the case of the government's actions, that is, of course, not well to be expected. I hope the government doesn't live long, and I hope it doesn't run out four years. That's enough, and I hope they realize, the presidents of these administrations, that this kind of government doesn't work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u165	A respectable president. I'd like to go over this, but I'm afraid I won't have time to discuss all the factors needed to trace. First, I want to be able to do this because there has been a few debates about the need for savings and that, on the side of the government opposition, there might be unrealisticity and lack of desire to save a government career, that the essential to saving money in government management by decompositioning institutions is that projects that can be placed in the same good or better places elsewhere. It has been very slow, and we have supported such events. However, in this case there is no way here to play the role that the Bank Office is fulfilling today by passing on the projects to the Ministry of finance. The minimum requirement, then, is not that the task can be done as well or better after the change. In the bill and comment on it, it is actually quite amazing to read how to determine how and how to reason and how to use different arguments. There is not really an entire bridge in the approach to the subject. At the outset, the reasons for the banking facility at the time are said to have been that the Icelandic government had enough to spin at that time and that this project was intended for that reason. It is, in effect, wrong. It was suggested by Dr. Matt Josefsson, a Swedish expert, that the highest part of a government or government institution, in a way that later established that politics had nothing to do with decisions that were inevitable about the exchange and future of companies and individuals in the country, and they would have to keep politics off financial decisions, because banks are not the same as any other firm on the market. When given here, you can comment on the bill on page 18. 18, 19. (a) How did Jesus show that he was "no part of the world "? 8, when quoting other government companies where there is custody at the Ministry of finance, such as Istavia and Richard, etc, it is not possible to market financial companies with such organisations that carry out certain social projects. It is a fundamental problem that the state is active at a bank, but it is not a fundamental problem that the State is active in Richard or Istavia or any other such company. That is why it was an independent objective, because the political possession of banks is generally considered harmful in all civilized states, and the process of separating it was beginning to occur with the establishment of the Banks. This is to ensure that the length of an arm from the political force in banks is made up of material decisions. Furthermore, the change has taken place since the administration of these laws to property and orderliness has become the same Ministry, the Ministry of finance. When the Bank County Act was passed, the regular role of the Ministry of Business was the possession of the financial institutions and the handling of the property of the State in general. It is entirely preposterous, therefore, to converge the ownership and administrative role, to prepare financial legislation, and to supervise the implementation of laws in the financial market, and to put it all together in the same Ministry. That is a bitter experience. The Ministry of Business did this back then, and it did not seem to be a good example. I've had experience with that. I was in the last command of the Farm Bank before he was privateized, as a representative of the State, and it was very strange to deal with one of the Ministry of Comments on the Management Board on individual matters, which was then the same Ministry that gave us the rest of the rules for the operation. This is a very dangerous mixture, not a role model, nor is it customary in any civilized state. In comments, we comment on the bill on page 18. It is 9 that in general the role of such elements in the Ministry of Economic Affairs would be clearly separated from other parts of the Ministry, which focus on financial contributions in general and, in turn, reduce the potential interest issues due to different roles, it is important that services be taken into account by the Ministry's various roles, and such as making guarantees that confidential information is not transmitted. It will also ensure that the work of the individual authority of the Ministry will be canceled in one of the above roles. It's a general snack, and it doesn't even commit to the Minister from day to day. On this basis, there is a level of ownership in financial companies as well as the decision-making authority for his treatment, indirectly an invitation to the management of the company, which is in charge of the Minister and the Order's administration by the executives. I don't think humans are completely self-involved by the way that poses. It's totally ridiculous. To tell you the truth, it would be better to hide the highest. The secretary of business to oversee this, if it was being reassigned to some Ministry, if the Ministry of Economics plays the regular part. Nor is it as if the secretary of business was built after the natural pass. But this setting is absolutely ridiculous. In short, it is reserved for all the commitments of bank sales. We have the terrible experience of the last bank sale of having no general rules. It is certainly true that subsequent sales will be supervised by the Government Accounting. She also did the last thing she did, giving a doctor's certificate, a process that everyone knew was based on lies. The candidates in Burger Bank received the highest ratings for the clarity of an offer, but the proposals were very different from the first round. There was a foreign investment bank in the first round, and it had become some German Hauck & Aufäuser bank that was so small that it was impossible for him to invest himself in the Bank of Farm, and it was found that he disappeared from the scene quickly and definitely, for the reason he was only on a torture and cheating. A respectable president. How can you think of repeating the game with this story? No committed rules. Reading the common snack on page 18. 13 of the comments are insults at the body of Congress, a respectable president, pure insult to the United States; to ensure, for example, objective assessment of oers; and in general, segregations should be offered for sale in public terms, etc. This has been tested in such a vague setting, and we know the outcome. To continue to do so is an enormous responsibility. This bill does not contain any regimens, either for the management of property or for the sale of items. There's a general snack on the point of view, and there's no length of arm loyalty. It is said that the same government officials of the Ministry of Economic Affairs are not required to perform the regularity and supervision, but there is nothing that obliges the Minister to arrange matters that way. After all, it is the same minister who determines the fate of the officials, whether they are monitoring the bank or monitoring the financial market. Whether they are more likely to listen to the minister's breath or to read the general snack found in this bill when it comes to its appearance? Of course, they will listen to where the wind blows from the minister. That is why it was an independent goal to remove the political power of decision - making in these respects. Then there is a setting that is as weak as it can be. The minister should consult with a consulting committee. And who says it? Is it the university community? No. Is that a specialist's appointment? No. Do they come from different political parties? No. Is that a commission from the labour market? No. He chooses it for himself. It has been suggested in the discussion how these administrative groups have been responsible when they are, as in the management board of LAIN, to appoint their own members to the board. V.E.G. The minister of finance has ordered a relatively large number of working groups to be decommissioned, with only male best friends - forgiven, freely known friends, and the prime minister, and no one else. V.E.G. A financial minister has appointed a financial advisory committee. Shall we discuss who is in it? V.E.G. The secretary of finance has chosen the trustees to operate on the implementation of debt correction and the induction of electronic documents. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has repeatedly learned that the development of Hannes Hólmsteinn Gissurarson, which has repeatedly tried to argue against better judgment, has been misjudged from this and elsewhere, that the social science agency has taken the initiative to investigate the formation of the collapse and that it was the professional decision of the Ministry to negotiate with a social science agency, when it is due to social science that it was Hannesham Gissurarson who came with the car and had it come from the highest country. Secretary of finance. And one shall ask himself, Will it be Hólmsteinn Gissurarson Gósursson, A Árni Sigfússon, and Tryggvi Þór Herbertsson, who is on this consulting committee? How related can the beard be to the chin? There is a fundamental problem in the community, total lack of trust in politics, and there is a political policy that we attained by a transpolitic stand at the council when the Bank Board was established, even to meet the demands of the existing government opposition, existing administration parties, to further increase the distance from the minister's authority to the new agency, still increase the uplinking of the Agency to the council. How can a person resolve all of them and replace them with no restrictions, no restrictions, making only a way to solve this for himself with his friends and with a special advisory committee? It's amazing to see it. I have taken lightly the list of other government institutions. It is very important to bear in mind that there are literally all other arguments about possession in banks because of the role of banks, how they can be abused by those who are triumphed in the community, and those who lose, how we have decades of abuse of political power in the hands of these government groups to the owners of state, how they have used their unfavoured authority to select the winners and losers in Icelandic society, how they have leaked information into an expansive gang of crime, and given them the chance of currency in the old ages. And here to continue the game, to restore the total lack of order and professional activity that was the basis for the worst misuse of political power in the financial system in the recent century. Finally: Here, in the discussion of dangerous cheers, I feel that for this disaster bill, it must be done like a natural pass because the forwarding party has spoken that it should not be sold at the Lands Bank. I have no faith that the advance party is on its feet in this case, not anyone. [[Up front.]] I think that now we're going to see such a terrible demolition as in the food tax, that instead of a 30% share being sold, 29% of the items will be sold, and the forward party will give us tremendous support, such as when the food tax went from 12% to 11 and the great victory will come, that they've got a full victory. It's a very dangerous bill. It undermines good government in the country, undermines financial practices in the country, and is the highest. Secretary of finance to high school shame. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u166	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. Perhaps it is possible to wonder, " Is the success march of the advance so that one candidate is embarrassed by the release of the matter at the council, as was the result of the tax of food tax and was quite handsomely opposed to men in their camps? ' All I want to do is sit back and talk for a second. A senator named Sigurjónsson Siglejonsson who is truly president of the Economic and Business Committee and it was evident that he had moved up here to accept the case and a minister had a different plan, as sometimes happens between these categories. He had a plan to refer the case to a budgetary committee, as there are people who are more subject to the above - mentioned material. Hv. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónjarsson mentioned some of the things he found in the bill for protection. First, he felt that the length of his arm was not loyalty. Second, he felt that the Ministry of Overseers could not also discuss the property part, that would be inconceivable. Third, he felt that it was inindulgible to believe that the State is the means to care for the sale of property. Fourth, he said: Should what works? Fifth, he said that the transparency would be difficult. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he believes that these five things can be passed through with adjustments to an existing bill rather than directly suggest that it be cut down at its level.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u167	A respectable president. It's hard. First, the case would have to be placed in another department like the Ministry of Business, but then it would also have to be prepared for the advisory committee as a commitment minister to comply with professional proposals there and to ensure that the appointment of the Commission would be in the hands of all political parties or that the claim would come from the university community or in some other way, so it is complicated but not impossible. I have to say exactly as it is, I think it's a little strange that the bill says that it's still going to be the highest. Secretary of the budget is reporting the progress of the budget and the financial committee. Why? So why are the case not referred to a financial and business committee on the part of the secretary of finance? What kind of strange march is it that we're talking about a financial and business committee discussion about this case that has had to do with it from the beginning and had to do with it before Christmas that the Bank Office got a temporary extension life? So it's only natural to write an economic and business committee out of the bill at the moment. So I believe it is difficult to place the case in the hands of the Ministry and Department officials, but I restate that it is not impossible. However, it is impossible to do so in the same ministry and to monitor financial markets. We have a hell of a experience with that. And I reiterate my experience by representing the state of bank administration and making comments to me about an official from the same Ministry who has another checkup on the bank. There's a perfectly ridiculous situation to be in and this is where she's being invited home. Although this is some general statement that its official...... thereis no guarantee, and in any case, it's the same head that's on the Ministry anyway. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u168	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's answers. You wonder, then, because there have been some debates over this matter, and when it comes to verbal exchange between members of Congress, it has been surmounted to the fact that this is actually one of the numberd proposals made by the panels, which would like to be so much fun that it is up to members of the budget board. I think it's the best of my own risk. In order to meet the wishes of the economist groups, the secretary of finance will handle matters just to meet a certain and defined political objective that may not all be found in a paper with the bill but may need to look deeper to see the political context in what is presented here. It is particularly relevant to the fact that this is the turn of power on the Ministerial Table, a large and important project, and the fact that it is almost as if a person wants to act as if the collapse of the fall of 2008 has never occurred, much less the General Study Report. That's why I want to ask you why. A senator whether he believes that the political aims of the minister of finance and the Independence Party would be achieved primarily by the changes he mentioned could be made on the bill in accordance with what he did. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson was concerned, and especially with what is mentioned here, it is impossible for surveillance and property to be in the same Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u169	A respectable president. Of course, the economy is the spine, the head, you don't know what to call it, on a financial committee, at least some fundamental body member of that committee. But I don't want to go to the top. The secretary of finance is merely following such suggestions on his own. Hv. A senator asks me if I believe that it is possible to achieve the objective of the minister by the changes I suggested that there might be a way to make the matter acceptable. I don't believe in that. I don't think it can be that the case is so nasty and that it rejects so completely all the principles of the right way of ruling except because it's the ultimate independent goal. Secretary of finance to remove all the obstacles in his almighty power to decide who will be allowed to buy what banks, when, under what circumstances, and at what cost. There is no firm limit to the sale of a bank in the bill, no commitment to find anywhere. Of course, the adviser's committee will be the highest. Secretary of finance as closely as any of the advisers whom he has appointed of his associates and of his best friends. That's why I think it's dangerous to minimize the risk of this bill. I think this is a deliberate attack on a good government, and it's one of the basic components of this 50 - half - trade agreement that is behind this tragic government and is the reason for her being in charge here, rolling trust, that it will do what men have planned to do, which was to divide their unions between friends. This is what was formed, and it still stands, no matter how sour and boring it is for the people and other observers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u170	A respectable president. They were not given the big words of this sermon. Senator. I must admit that I was hoping that it would be. A senator would be a little more complex, but fine. The bank administration was, as we know, founded to hold all the financial assets of the state. At that time, the three major business banks were in there and the savings. Hv. A senator spoke as if it were a very orderly and professional case. Hv. A senator was in the last government, and he knows things very well. He knows exactly that the property parts were nothing in the Bank County, if that were the case. He knows all about Byr and SpKef, it never went to Bank County. He also knows that the Bank Management Board gave a special plan, put a lot of work into it, presented it to him. Business committee, how to handle the savings fund. There was nothing left to it, not at all. Now, in a study report on the savings fund, there is a warning against the ultimate route. A government went to an enormous amount of money. Here we are talking about a two - man agency that costs a lot of money, a three - man government. Hv. A senator spoke in that way of the highest. Secretary of finance - I'm not going to have a comparison of it - that I don't feel that it's beneath him because I know why. A senator does not keep that person. But the highest. The secretary of finance can now appoint the bank administration exactly as he can appoint counseling committees. It is quite clear, from recent times, that the Bank Office is no guarantee of orderliness or professional living. [[The president calls.]] They know why. A senator from the first hand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u171	A respectable president. I'm not going to discuss in my own way how the Ministry of finance delivered property items to the Bank County, of course it's an independent subject. Bank management, I can only mention the example of a minister of economic and business, for example, had a view of the importance of securing competition in a financial market, and I had a conversation with the Bankiscation and its representatives about it. If there's trouble with the bank business, it can be processed. If the government's will is to simplify and save, let's try to find together some structure that is acceptable, which maintains the length of the arm. You cannot overlook the fact that in this bill all obstacles and restrictions on decisions are being cut off. Secretary of finance and assign it a complete self - example of the reasons he provides and will depend on the management of financial assets. This is a fundamental change because the secretary of finance does not have that authority today and, for example, cannot give orders to the Bank County unless published in public, they send them a financial and business committee because it is considered unnatural to give such instructions. There are no restrictions on instructions at the highest level. A secretary of finance can give, no restrictions on what he can say to financial executives, no restrictions on how they are selected other than the preferential friends. Ministers of finance, members of the Advisor Committee, are to make the choice of the chosen ones. This is a fundamental change. It's already the highest. The secretary of finance chooses to make the case this way, so he cannot expect, or his party, to be taken as a mitten. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This consists of a fundamental change and apostasy from the political solidarity that has been involved in securing arm length in this respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u172	A respectable president. I just don't recognize this arm length that's supposed to have been during the last term. I encourage people to read the law on the State Bankiscation. Bank management is not about to sell anything, she just proposes to the highest level. Secretary of finance. It's exactly the same thing. Men here speak of a two - man agency with a three - man government that costs nearly 400 million. K. in 6 years and had a completely different role when it was started but then turned out to be. This is, in fact, the U.S. National Bank Office, not Banking. People talk like the highest. Secretary of finance can only wake up one day and say, "There's a why. paritaprevir Hjörvar like him. I like him. Hey, come here, buddy. I'm gonna give you the Lands Bank. - What the hell is this shit? They know it doesn't matter whether we have a law on the Bank County or what it is, if we're going to go into private banking on the banks, we're going to have to agree on it in financial terms and we're going to have to work on it with certain prosse. Bank management, you just read the law on her role, don't take care of her personal development, she just makes suggestions. And the bank administration is something the Minister of finance orders by itself. Then we have the experience since our last term, and of course we need to discuss it, and we will discuss it. It's under the law of the Bank Office that she's supposed to take her property into financial companies, but nothing was done. And the financial companies, Byr and SpKef, were in business without meeting legal requirements. They did not meet legal requirements. Is that regular and professional? We were with Bank County. She just didn't get any companies. She made a suggestion for the savings, there was nothing done to them, for she could not do it. Let's get together over the length of the arm, get a solid basis on professional practice. But coming up here and going to the highest. Secretary of finance, the things that go wrong. A senator brought here - I know why. A senator and I don't believe that. A senator means what he set out to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u173	A respectable president. If the bill is read, it is being described, in its report, in general Snacks' terms that have the basis for sales of financial assets. They're taking away restrictions at the highest. A financial minister may choose to choose what. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar to buy a bank at some degree. Secretary of finance prefers. Of course, it will have to be swallowed up by the administrative part, but more than a proportion of these groups swallowed something like it in the past. It did not say in the Senate that selling sales using methodology that was completely unsurpassed and yelled at all fair - minded people that they were wronged. A respectable president. It is simply so that when a legal arrangement is taken away and the highest. A financial minister has entrusted one - sided power to determine the reasons, to determine those who are supposed to make the reasons - because he chooses them, because he has exercised his own authority to select people professionally, in the way that I described them in my speech earlier - it is only natural for you to stop and ask questions. It's the highest. The secretary of finance to explain why he is the one who chooses to violate the arms length policy, why he chooses not to have other political powers excluded from coming into this matter on the contrary contrary to what was determined in the last government in 2009 to wish for a government opposition; and why he chooses not to have special members in his advisory committee, but rather appoint them all from his own pockets, by men in his own pocket.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u174	Mr. President. We will discuss the management and sale of the government's property in financial companies. It has been very interesting to observe this discussion for those who are not on a budget or a financial and business committee, and not as close as it was to that subject as anything else at the council. It has also been interesting to see how independence is so prevalent. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson takes the initiative to protect the bank administration and bring the delicate things that the financial interests of the state are back in the province, can be said, home to minister. It best describes how the Independence Party likes to have things, they should be as close to them as they can have political influence, it seems, because if the bank administration laws are impossible as they are today and do not create a distance from the political bitch, one would have intended that the existing government would bring something better than they, in view of their criticism, but it is not. They bring something that seems far from meeting the difference between political intervention and the management of financial assets. We know how these matters were handled in the past and how much criticism took place over the years, how 50 percent of the transition was between the forwarding party and the Independence Party in the financial system and how it was achieved that the bank's personalization over the years after 2000, which I think is totally in the state's research report that was a prelude to the collapse of the financial system. The Bank Management Board may not be supposed to be a permanent institution for the future, but it seems that, at present, it is very important that it retains its independence and is responsible for the financial interests of the government and that if it comes to the purpose of selling property into any of the banks involved in the state, it may be very important. There must be a basis for confidence in the independence of the bank office in this regard. Today, there is a selection committee that appoints the management of banks, but it is now scheduled to put down both the selection committee and the Bank County and its place, in place, a advisory committee appointed by the Minister and then to appoint directly to the management of the financial agency represented in the state. I have to say, when I listened to a talk. paritaprevir For me, Frosti, the Sigurjónsson of Siglejo, was very pleased with his ability to express himself on these matters. What a pleasure it would be if more candidates, I'm not going to say that I had the common sense, for, of course, people may have conflicting opinions about what others do, although they may be members of a group, but I felt aggressor. A senator approaches the matter in a very reasonable and balanced way. He referred to a convention of prominent candidates, who have often been discussed in the Assembly Hall, but many events have occurred that have not completely occurred after a party council meeting had knocked doors. At the Synod council, it was agreed that the Bank Commission would continue to operate in the same way that it does today, having the administrative part of the state's financial capital, and also that the Lands Bank would not be sold but should be directed to make it a community bank. It was considered well over how much interest a bank like the Lands Bank could bring to the state and to the community and that it would not interfere with getting rid of a large share in the Bank of America, to 30%, as expected in a national financial programme. That's why you're surprised that people bring this matter here when they disagree on its contents and plan to resolve the differences between the parties. If men have not been able to land the case without a conflict within the parties, will they reduce the share of the Council to resolve the issue? I thought why. paritaprevir Frosti, Sigurjónsson, referred to the budgetary committee that she did so. I have no doubt that the less part of the legal committee can offer a solution. There are a number of ways in which you can improve the situation. It must be a requirement for the public in the country that we do not go on the same bikes as we did in years earlier, where political fingerprints were everywhere in the financial sector, in the business world, and in the business and in the 50s, were the dominant country. I think that everyone is thinking in horror about the time when the Specialist Party and the Independence Party divided their power, not just at a council, but everywhere in the community where they could handle it. Fortunately, times are changing in this regard, people are watching and not accepting this kind of work, if these groups are going to win indiscriminately, that I believe, regarding the financial property of the state. There is no lack of transparency, and there is no neutral surveillance to say that there is a minister who has such a case in his arms. There's no one to say that the Minister who is now, the highest. Secretary of finance, or someone else who would handle it would use it that way. But it is not credible or reassuring to view a person as a potential abuse of power. We don't want to see things go on that ride. That is why it was decided at the time that the State's Bankisit would be established. I think it was very wise, men looked to the events that caused the collapse and various criticisms that were presented in the General's study report, and they learned a lesson from it. Are we close to the collapse, it's just seven years since that, we don't have to worry about the warnings presented in the bank crash report? Are we really going to the place where it's supposed to just shake off and pick it up: I can, I can, I can do it, and I'm gonna do it? Do we not want to try to instill confidence in the public as well as in others and to ensure that independent persons, such as the Bank Office, are concerned about the great financial value of today's government? This is worth $2,250,300 billion. There are no quarters around. To say that there are savings in this process, of course, one cut is that in the overall context, when much is under, it does not weigh the saving capacity of about 50 million, which is not overlooked because there is a need to increase the position of experts in the Ministry of Economic Affairs and the advisory Committee. There is no way to determine what it can cost in the past to prevent the question of saving. Is the evidence of professional advantages? I have not heard from those who speak for the bill that professional benefits are involved. Then what's the journey for? Do humans still see confusion over anything that was decided to do in the past government? Is it really still the matter? We are going to throw it overboard because it was a decision and approved by the former government? I can't believe that men are so naive, but you're never gonna know, because as shown in the language of the day. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Thor Þór Þórðarson, the son of Thor, had a horn in the bank business, but he supports this case, far from having the toes where the Bankers have heels. Based on the criticism shown during the last terms, the Ministers had their fingers in making decisions around the Bank County, what can be said about the situation as it appears today? How can they handle this bill when a minister is actually handling the whole matter entirely in his arms? There is no length between that and no distinction regarding the independence of the advisory committee as such. All around it is much weaker, no independence, and a minister chooses the members of the bank, and then they choose the governments of the banks. I'm afraid this will not be a role model, nor will this nation's trust in politicians. This may be part of being legal, but I find it immoral.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u175	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for extensive talks. She brought in a lot of things I think are very important in this whole situation. For example, at the end of her talk - now I know that here in the past, the practical mistress was often referred to as a woman who might be better off handling money than a man, and I think that a boy would. A senator joins the practical housewives in that metaphor - up to 50 million. K. saving, in the example of the time you're about to take 200 to 300 billion dollars. Possessions, it's natural pennies. I'd also like to ask the senator to bring in only other things, because they here say that there's little difference now in being with a consulting committee as the minister of a ship or Bank County and there the Minister is also in the board and out of the streets, and would like to make it very small. To me there is a great difference between having this sort of case directly on the table with the minister, and then no matter who the minister is, or having such power in an independent institution. Is it possible for the senator to agree with me that there is a great difference between the two, and a lot more confidence in having an independent organisation than having it all on the same desk? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u176	Mr. President. Yes, I think that's exactly what matters, or makes it quite clear that this advisory committee could be in way too close and, in fact, perhaps on a desk minister's corner each time, like the other. A senator mentioned. Therefore, it is so important to have an independent secretary, whoever he is, with no way of being anything or being involved. The only thing that a minister can present to the local government, as it is today, is a tenant policy, while one of the bank administrations today, is to recommend and recommend if it feels that there is a reason to look at the sale of any property, the market is such, but it is a minister who decides whether he will carry it any further, but the suggestions come from the bank administration. As presented here in the bill, there is really no comment on communication, no channel, no nothing in between. Now this selection committee is at work that's already cut out there, and now it's just an intermediate advisory committee and a command to the heads of the banks. I think it's a much weaker battery, if you don't mind me saying it, but it's today. With the practical mistress, I think they're living a good life in this country and may be allowed to handle more money in the administration department than is being done today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u177	President. Sadly, I did not have the opportunity to listen to a talk. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson earlier today, but it has been well quoted. One thing like that. A senator mentioned - she corrects me if I've misunderstood - that he had mentioned that the council had to come here and fix something and something else on the bill presented here. I would like to ask the senator if she would agree with me that there have become quite a number of bills to be fixed by the Senate, but there is no position between the governments. And then there are ministers, and I remember the Supreme Court. The secretary of the house came and said that people should go into law only on the rental bill and on the streets. Is it not a little difficult for our time here to bring in bills like this, those who are basically thrown in at the council because they are not well-worked? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u178	Mr. President. Yes, I don't think it's the time of the council, we know it, and there aren't many days left of this council. If the council is to make an agreement for a conflict between the members of the administrations, after the role has been transferred into the council, I feel that there is something contrary to what we members of this council have today. I listened to a talk. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson, who described the banking department as it is working today, that its activities have been very successful, and she has taken good care of government relations with the financial companies we own in, i.e. State. Why withdraw something that has worked well? I just don't get it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u179	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir speaking. Both of us are reminded of the situation here during our last term, and the Bank County Act was passed in August 2009. For the first time in May 2009, we both attended a council, a summer assembly that was unconventional in that we were working almost all summer. These include the establishment of the government banking office, when the State was more or less involved in all the financial institutions of the country. It was decided to put financial institutions in this particular company, but it was as if two categories, forward category, and an independent group, who had private resources, which, apart from some savings, were not very helpful in the process in which we were trying to figure out what was best, and in order to further the best trust in the system, they could get them settled. The independent party voted against the state's Bankament, while the forward party, the members of the council, who were here in the hall, who were not many, sat by. Today, some candidates in an economic group seem to be buying ideas that this is worth 50 million. Does the senator believe that this is a real savings procedure or that something else hangs on? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u180	Mr. President. I have a feeling that there's something else that's gonna work out, because everyone sees that it's 50 million to the 300 billion under there, surveillance on the part of the state, that's a low percentage. Of course, we do not know how much this change will cost when it comes to it. I thought it was all right. A senator mentioned how the Bank Management Board came about and that, among other things, experts suggested that it would be wise to have this in this way when the State was brought into captivity to the financial institutions of the country after the collapse. You are now asking yourself: " What experts have advised the current government to do things this way? It would be good to get forward and really have reason to believe that men were leaving something, like the arrangement that is today regarding the Bank County and its independence, because they were going into an even better process that ensured that there were no political prints on county with as much money as there is going on in the financial system. But I have not seen it in any argument or a paper with the bill, perhaps telling my own story that it is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u181	V.E.G. President. It is also of interest to deal with the government's holdings of financial institutions from an independent institution, the Bank Office, and to transfer to the Ministry of Economic Affairs directly under finance ministers, while the groups who are going to support it are not ready to initiate an investigation into the bank's private interest. Often we forget. At times, it may not always be nice to bring heavy memories along, but I wondered: " Does the senator feel that the public has forgotten and has confidence in the government that he or she feels this is a good arrangement, as the bill says?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u182	Mr. President. I hope that the public has not forgotten the privatization of banks in the years since 2000. It was so shocking that it should be a school textbook, which would be a warning example in schools of business, ethics, and theology. I hope it was something we learn from them. Now I feel like I'm dragging us back to that place. I don't think the public in this country will be invited. We represent the public here on the other side. Allied and must speak for the lack of the opportunity to take these things back to the same course. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u183	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill on how to treat and sell the government's holdings on financial funds. Hv. Magnúsdóttir It's a popular name to name it. We should call it the first, so it's popular. I'm just gonna take it under her words, that there's hell for a warning. However, I cannot agree that this can be compared with the method being proposed in this bill, in which arrangements are being made for sale and treatment of property items in financial companies, and in reality two laws on the state of Bankisits and on the trade management of the State's financial institutions, law No. 155/2012, and put in one set of songs here. This has been very clear in the discussion as well as in the question. A senator on the armpan's point, that it is very important to be taken care of. In Comb 4. The bill speaks of a advisory committee to take over the role of the Bank County, and this has been shown in the discussions. I'd like to ask you a question last year. A senator what changes she would like to see on the commission of the Committee or possibly on the location of the Committee to ensure that the length of the arm is kept to the limit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u184	Mr. President. Yeah, I don't think the Council of Counsel has the independent role that the Bank Office has today. It has been discussed here that less equipment is around that committee, both the communication and the transportation channels, as well as the fact that the Ministry of finance is both. Act on financing of financial markets, as well as the State's administrative role in financial assets, that these two are not compatible, will not fall together under the same Ministry, surveillance and oversight or the responsibility of the State and this Ministry and Minister with the share of the state's financial contributions. This alone is a reason why this bill has to be revised, that there is no improvement in professional matters. I believe the advisory committee is just too sick and there's nothing wrong with the laws that are still valid. It has been noted that it may be possible to improve this by having a surveillance committee, a surveillance committee with the advisory committee and the administration there, a surveillance committee that would then be precipitated in order to have some transparency in what was going on in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u185	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree that I believe that there are knots that can be arranged so that by means of that arrangement you can guard the most massive arm length of your life. As the bill has now, it may well be - I listened to a talk at the top. Minister, he was willing to listen to all such professional approach, so I would first not give it to myself that it cannot be done, and secondly, as if I were the bill, I believe that it can be made so by knots. I'd like to ask you about such an open and useful sales process, that, of course, it is assumed that Kingdom Hall will take care of the formal sales program. A review will be made, and at the end of the sale, if and at any time, the secretary of the Council will have a report on the sale treatment. [[The president calls.]] Has a what? A senator without faith in that form?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u186	Mr. President. This issue is not about whether certain organizations have credibility or not but, rather, where they are special. It is not the area of the Kingdom Halls to care for parts of financial management. Of course, a government review plays an important role, but it does not say that it alone improves this matter for good, because I don't feel that there has been any evidence for the change in putting down an independent bank agency and has this great role to keep out of the financial stock of the state. The banking board has a great expertise in handling government relations with financial companies. And why not make good use of the professional knowledge that has developed there? [[The president calls.]] I see no reason to change things, something that's good today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u187	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss the financial secretary's bill on the handling and sale of the government's financial assets. I've noticed today that the minister of finance doesn't seem to be in a house, so it's not too late, I'm not going to state it, at least he's not here in the audience. Perhaps his lack of interest in the discussion is explained by the lack of support for the case of the local government, the forwarding party. I'm not going to be fooled by it. Just like the chairman of the Continent, huh? paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason, left earlier, is not a reason to trust that this bill will not be legal. We have been allowed to listen to the advances of the advance party, which seems to be used for home bridges, but it will be ratherlittle when they arrive at the Assembly Hall. We have also experienced that the forwarding party is not unholy to betray the big promises, the 300 billion from the vultures who became 80 billion from taxpayers, cut off insurance. I don't remember a single bill being submitted to that. There seems to be very little about material things there and the highest. A minister of finance is not impressed with the small that will remain of that promise. Then we came to the opposition to food taxes, where the entire Assembly of the Agency made a warning of the budget and was ousted with promises of countermotive action that have been shown to be none, just a word on paper. At that time, there are the hard times in which the workforce is now in the hands of both the chairman of a legal committee as well as the highest legal committee. Prime Minister declared support for 300 yous. K. The minimum wage, but it does not take place in their actions that they harm anything by it. Then the forwarding party went to a platoon and agreed that the Lands Bank should be owned by the State as a community bank and that the Bank Office should be allowed to continue work. In view of the list I have read here, there is no reason for us at the council to believe this in particular beyond any other promises made by the party. Although it's quite inviting, it's the best. Mr. President, to be informed about the matter now, and to trust that it will fall asleep on a committee, although it is on a budget where a government strategist group makes more things, and it is certainly tempting to go home and try to prepare well for the day of the committee tomorrow, I do not trust that the forward party will fulfill the wonderful promises of the council. There is a policy in which no more than 30% should be sold at the Lands Bank, but it is evident that the forward category is antiquated. The big change is that instead of taking care of the bank administrations in the state's financial or share, and standing formally to the highest level of sales. Under this bill, the secretary of finance is assigned to set up an advisory committee that is responsible for appointing qualified members for session in financial management. Ministers are to be consulted with the Commission on larger decisions related to the management of the holdings and to the sale of the financial holdings of the State. So when we start to wonder how this advisory committee is here, it's here: ▪ In the Advisory Committee on Companies in State Rent, three individuals and one are appointed by a minister without a appointment. A minister appoints one of them president and decides the approval of members of the committee. The Ministry shall add the Commission to the position and other services required by the Committee. It's a small private banking agency at the top. Secretary of finance. Then I'd like to recall that during our last term, we changed the state radio law. The government of the State Radio was entrusted with more professional work than only the role it had had had in the existing law. It was decided that a minister should appoint a management board with nominees from various sources, and then a General and Education Committee should follow that in advance of existing rules. This was not appreciated by the independent party and the forwarding party government. In fact, they liked the extent of the government's impact on the program, where they wanted to harden political ability and wanted to be elected by the Council of the Council. So they bit their heads off by betraying the agreement, so they have much more in that government today. It's so interesting that they like it here, the Ministers have it, they have it, they have it, they have it, they have it, and they like it. Now I'm not suggesting that the General pick this up for votes at the Senate Hall, but you may wonder whether this government is consistent in its order. Hv. paritaprevir The Árni Páll Árnason did well with regard to the supremeness of his ministry. Secretary of finance has appointed his companions to action. It has not been observed how he has planned to do this, nor has it been shown why this committee should not be called on and why it should not be bigger. This is a rather embarrassing child, for the Independence Party is in the name of the emancipation of an institution that gives an arm length from politics on the administration of these financial companies, the Independence Party that didn't want the bank administration at its time, the Independence Party that took a vote against the Bank County institution at its time. But the advance group, who had only a desire but since sat by and then at the platoon council, has given special support to the Bank County, is now being dragged into this panic. This has been shown in the discussions of mistrust in politics, and I am part of a group that is not without it. But the government that reigns in the land and its leaders have very little support. Now the labour market is on fire, and how to settle it is a big concern. It does not fully provide the end of how to reach the conclusions of the struggles, which are in almost all the movements of paymen. It is a source of dissatisfaction because of the way to make money from the fishing source. There is a great dissatisfaction with the way the government has conducted the Iceland Member State's application to the European Union. There is much dissatisfaction with an increase in food tax. There are a number of things that are very unhappy, and it is up to us to increase the political authority of the government on government funds owned by the State. Once again, you feel that the objective of government leaders is to provoke their nation and go so far that people really do not grow up and rebel. It's a shock - treatment, as Salómon was given in the movie Stella in vacation. It's supposed to make us so furious with booze that we stop drinking, in fact, this government is also interested in sending booze into camp. V.E.G. President. Finally, I say that I do not trust that the forward party is standing by the big words now rather than in certain other statements made during the past few years. I express concern over the lack of judgment that this bill shows. I certainly hope it falls asleep in a committee, and I really hope that by force of vote, we will bring the bill into a financial and business committee, it will be the first test for the candidates in this matter, whether they really stand with the Bank County of the State. She was on a business committee in her day. There is the natural place to discuss the possible subjugation of her, which seems to be more political opposition on the side of the forwarding party than on the budget. When this case is addressed to the committee, the highest. President, we'll have a vote to see the first sign of whether the approval of the Agency's Council is a word on paper or on the real direction of the party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u188	President Hithv. Thank you. Ingibjörg Ingadóttir Inglive Ingaló's speech on billing the government's holdings and sales of financial assets. She was in many places during the talk. She had a lot of success, and if I was willing to discuss it, she was very interested in it. But I'm gonna stick with this bill, and there's two things that matter on the bill. It is that the arm length is kept to the limit and that all treatments and sale are open and transparent. I'm not gonna give it up in advance that there's no guarantee in the bill. I want to ask you why. A senator with regard to the Advisor Committee, what is stated in Numbers. g., whether she sees that the length of the arm must be kept by changing the arrangement something, order, or location of the committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u189	V.E.G. President. Thank you for questions. paritaprevir Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, son of Thor, but I'm not sure I have to answer them. Not because I want to be rude to the senator or ignore his questions. But now it's so I think we're what we're talking about. A senator agrees that matters are best placed in the bank office. And at least at the height. A financial minister has some dreams about a consulting committee, so it is not our job to help him make it somehow if we both believe that the right way is the same with the government's banking business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u190	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I have no reason to believe that the government's banking agency has done its job well. It is qualified and controlled, but there is nothing that can't be changed. The size may be too much, as shown in the bill, and it may be simple. There are two laws that are being broken into one law, and some savings are involved. I didn't mean to talk about it here in the second, but we agree that the arm length is very important, and we'll have to make sure of it right here on the Christian treatment if we want to. I'm not gonna decide that in advance here. But about sales, if and when it comes to it, as the bill says, I'd like to ask if. A senator agrees to use the money available for the sale to pay off the debts established at the restoration of financial institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u191	V.E.G. President. I'd like to say first of all, about the down payment of Bank County, I'd like to remind you that even though huge interests were at stake, the F.A. At times, money has to be spent in protecting such interests as this. For a provision of the sale value, if it happens, I'm very involved, and my party, that we go to pay off the State debt because the government's interest costs are huge every year. But we need to be careful that we too are deeply at odds with the way the present government has behaved in the government's affairs. So that doesn't mean taking out one mail, we need to look at the overall picture. [[The president calls.]] A government government that has given up taxes cannot expect us to make a high contribution when she then uses the government's property to pay off debt.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u192	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. In view of today's discussion, I just want to think about it, that it is not in itself without reason that we are trying to speak to candidates. The head of the Economic and Business Committee was almost equal to the government opposition we've been talking about here. He says that the arrangement is successful, that it is not appropriate for the National Reconnaissance to take over the Bank Office by means of the sale process. He wrote that it is not convenient for one of the departments to monitor and implement, and that less demands are made for the advisory committee, such as the Bank Office today and the selection committee under those conditions. Communication between the Bank Office, the Committee and the Ministry - the process is, in fact, taken out of this bill. [[The president calls.]] Don't the senator agree with me that this means that your transparency will be less and less solid? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u193	Yeah, I totally agree with that. And as I studied in my speech, I don't understand what the minister's goal is, because economics are not such as the huge interests involved. The only thing that makes up this change is to raise suspicion that political power wants to increase its impact on the way these assets are done, especially when it comes to selling them, if it is to be done. There's something in Iceland banks and things in Arion banks and up to 30% of things in Lands Bank. These are huge financial resources, and we know the treatment of the Independence Party on the common property of the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u194	A respectable president. I have a theory in this regard, and that may be what experience has taught us. I mentioned earlier today that it is being moved under a minister, taking it from a specific organisation where the arm length is present. We have a bill inside that includes an increase in financial requests. There are ideas to increase the number of bank managers. I feel as if humans are taking over. It's very dangerous to me. I think our story teaches us that it's not just my fantasy or anyone else's. It's too bad. I'm asking the senator if she can agree with me on this. I also ask, "What can I do to stop this happening? " Eight. it also shows that a minister may personally decide to sell the financial institutions, so it leads to all the same. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u195	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator listed a number of cases that may be designed to ring our alarms. The political power over the financial system is being increased, which collapsed after the same categories as today are under the control of their own government over more than ten years ago. Today, people again see a game to profit from this system, which we are much more than loaded with. We discussed earlier today the rise of fines due to violations of various financial laws, but the present government is not ready to install specific laws on the protection of the informants. And there's another puzzle in this discussion. [[The president calls.]] I think we should do our utmost to stop this case and get the forward party to fulfill the big words. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u196	Mr. President. Hv. A senator considered the difference between saving such a project in an independent institution or unit under a government that is out of the Department's walls compared to putting his full trust in the fact that the Ministry Committee will serve the same purpose. This I think is the core of this matter, that it is a fundamental change to disappear from an independent agency and a government to a committee, not only appointed by the minister, but to have a job position in the Ministry and work at that great distance with the minister. This may be in line with the position of present governmental parties and ask: What has happened, since it is not just the forward party with its approval? I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Has he reviewed or read again the stand taken by members of the Independence Party in the spring and in the summer of 2009, when they were primarily concerned about it, about the Bank Office, that it was not far enough from a minister? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u197	V.E.G. President. Yes, I merely reflected my opinion on what this was all about, and that concern was exactly described. But it seems to have changed, now in the name of economy, and in some cases the same members of Congress are involved. It's not my question in this answer, but I find it interesting, when you look at the expense report, that it's expected to be 45 million. K. wearing. Then it is fun to ask an ex - secretary of finance if he considers it a serious waste of government funds to use millions of dollars a year in ensuring an arm lengthy view of national financial management.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u198	Mr. President. No, we talked about it earlier today, and I objected to a financial minister's argument that it was high enough to pay the cost of the unit that handled this valuable part of the state - which would fit the value of a magnitude of 250 to 300 billion, which is also giving away money for the State up to 20 billion plus a year - in this very high number. In percent it is very low, and it is not unusual to consider the cost of management or fund care and to make a success of it if the cost of operating is less than 1%. It is a fraction of it in this case, so it is not a high number. Then, in turn, ask: What is trust in these matters? Is it not clear that it is likely to undermine trust and cause suspicion to bring this back into the Ministry of finance? We have, I don't think, in the light of the great distrust as the privatization of banks at its time... created in the light of history and then collapsed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u199	Yes, it is difficult to gain trust. But we know exactly what situations arise in distrust. We are in the situation today that there is generally a lack of confidence in the institutions of society that had confidence in collapse, much more trust. The path selected was to try to put this into a clear frame, set clear guidelines and establish institutions with a set system rules around the system, in order to achieve maximum transparency. It seems that from a collapse, seven years have passed, and then the game can be resumed. I think that's a serious misapprecation of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u200	V.E.G. President. After reports of tens of millions of bank payments to their owners, I am not surprised to learn that the government is about to take possession of them beyond the government. What surprises me, however, is the irreverent suggestion for the system changes involved. Then, of course, we have come to the decompose of the government's banking office and a proposal to transfer power over the banks and decisions they have under the minister. Today, the Council of the Management Board and the Council of Iceland was taken out of the General Commission and Control Committee of the Council of the United States. It stipulates absolute authority for a minister to move organizations to whatever land he wants. [[The president calls.]] I wondered about it, and I would like to hear the food. The senator, whether or not we're seeing yet another evidence of increased media control and ministers' development.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u201	V.E.G. President. Yes, indeed, that is my answer. Here, efforts are being made to increase the power of ministers at the expense of the council. It seems serious to me that members of the management team feel that this is a spontaneous development. At the same time, they talk about it as a possibility to include the discussion in the council, but it seems to me that the keeping of members of the council within the council is very limited, preferably something that they consider to be a part of the council, while keeping quiet and silent is giving counsellers more authority. I think it's fine that we agree in the memory of the section to make a proper record of the authority that this government is stealing from the Lawgiver over to the Commission.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u202	V.E.G. President. After hearing about this proposal for Ministerhood and the decapitation of the state of Bankisk, I looked up the article of the bill that targets the advisory committee, which is to be the Minister for maintenance and trust. The book of Numbers states: "The kingdom of the heavens and of the earth and of the earth and of the sea and of ▪ In the Advisory Committee on Companies in State Rent, three individuals and one are appointed by a minister without a appointment. - The minister is totally in charge of who's out there. I'll continue, with President's permission: A minister appoints one of them president and decides the approval of members of the committee. The Ministry shall add the Commission to the position and other services required by the Committee. - It's completely within the framework of which the Minister is holding. In fact, it is stated that these individuals are legal and that they have not been judged in recent years because of business violations. That's good to know. [[The president calls.]] But there it is totally stamped in, to be hired by the Minister, to appoint a committee without a appointment and completely operates in his ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u203	V.E.G. President. Yeah, you're right next door. Senator. It is of great concern that not only is it being proposed to put down an institution, the only government in charge of this estate, but it is being placed in the hands of government officials. Of course, sometimes it would be quite comfortable to have things the way you want, but it's not very sensible, and it's actually harmful in a democracy. The chairman of the United Nations did well here in a speech earlier, which experience do we have when a minister chooses to operate on his authority. It promises that good independents will be put into this on the basis of a party card rather than a special skill. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u204	V.E.G. President. We're here discussing the treatment and sale of the government's holdings in financial companies, the bill at the highest level. Secretary of finance has submitted. I have to say right from the start that I don't understand why the bill is submitted. When a matter is presented at the council, changes are usually being made, and it is also possible to wonder whether it is time to change what is involved. It is a new institution for doing so. It was founded after the collapse and from experience with previous privatization of banks. It was important to try to build trust in government management and create what is called an arm length, or rather, to create an arrangement that ensured that politicians were not playing with the property of their own, friends, or other friends for the better. When you read your bill, you wonder: " Perhaps this is the result of the repeated announcements made by those who accepted the last election: an election. That comment could be understood to mean that they could do things, those who had come to power and ruled. Like what? A senator - good if it wasn't the highest. The secretary of finance himself - put it: The government government in Iceland has a government that was entitled to about 50% of the votes and the general opposition of my little ones. That is true, there is more, but it is not a good management organization that assumes that the smaller parts and decisions can be determined without taking into account that the council is made up of different groups and interests. The Bank Office was designed for reform, and any opinion can be made whether politicians should be involved in a business run by the State. As we were then in the administrative part of the world, we adhered to the policy of developing greater trust, trying to increase our respect for politics by creating a distance, by trying to put professional government over banks that would take over the property of banks, and make suggestions and appoint government agencies in the financial world. This was the setting up arrangement. Now you ask, "Why are we changing this now? " What is it that calls it? The evidence presented here is savings and that the eco-efficiency team has provided suggestions and is likely to have handled this. It may also explain why this matter is going to take place. The financiers, but not to the fiscal and tax committees, because the managers of the emissary are also members of the budget board, and they may intend to use the authority to bring this through by force. Then you say, "Why? " What interests should be cared for? Or it's being avoided here that the case is in trouble. Economic and tax committee? That's it. paritaprevir Chairman Frosti Sigurjónsson, who has expressed himself against these ideas. He had a suggestion at the forward party party that, if I know correctly, the Bank Department would not be laid down, at least that it was not time. When you look at it in the context of everything that's happened since the election, you're starting to panic. Contrary to the needs of the Icelandic government, the General Assembly and the Government, people have been bringing back the power from the Council and mainly to the advanced power. How often should we have heard the opposition to government during the last term talk about the authority and the violence of the administration, the democracy and the opposition to the Senate? But almost every new agency, every decision, is more and less involved in a way where best friends or quality will take over. It began with the Government Radio Board. It was the government of the loan fund. We can mention how all groups were appointed on the matter of the correction, surrounding it, how men were hired to assist, and the number of helpers increased greatly. Clearly, men were going to strengthen the European Commission, increase political power, increase the decision making in the interest of a party interest that seems to have been completely in charge of this time. At the same time, they said: " It's time we can take away a special prosecutor, he's done his job, we don't need him anymore. And the banking board falls into the same category. Then there are committees in which executives alone come into business; the government situation is organized. If she is involved, or organized, as has been in the case of reimbursement of a currency quadrupt, she is disbarred because she is out of shape with the government or wants to have a little discussion and a closer look. To me, it is a huge mistake to go into this change, and completely unnecessary, only to add to the distrust we have in Icelandic society, the distrust of the government, I don't speak of any senators who have been a lot in the media because of clean and direct corruption that is so mistrusting for all other members of Congress. Sadly, we are among the politicians, who are always mentioned in a single cycle, as one group responsible for making the power possible in this way. We've received a bill from a bill that expects a decision to be made from the General to the Minister. We've often identified this, in a number of cases, in small cases, e.g. In education. Simple things, such as deciding the length of the school year or making other decisions that have always gone through the council and that cooperation is not spoken of as the location of institutions or anything like that, are only responsible for ministers, and there are no rules on what should be valid or what course to take otherwise. It happens again and again. And then you say no to the highest. Prime Minister to answer questions at the council or to deal with matters directly with them. The tracks scare, and my attitude, and the United States on this matter, are shaped by it. We are defending the rights of the elected agents, Generalis, in order to participate in decisions of the order of magnitude being discussed here. We can go over this. First of all, the management is transferred from the Bank Office to the highest level. Financial and economic ministers. He's supposed to be responsible for this along with all the other things. Secondly, at the highest. Minister to appoint counseling committee; without any form of appointment at the highest level. Minister to appoint a counseling committee to be the minister for counseling. They're supposed to agree with the Council, what does that mean? What has been the experience of such discussions? Is that going to be like in the EU? The Treaty states that the matter should be reported and discussed well; it was presented, but it was never to be discussed; fortunately, we managed to ignore that experiment. Governments. A report is reported to submit to the following Council, i.e. after certain things have been done. What is the experience of this? We were discussing a report today, in which the administrative body decides that there is nothing further to be considered. We are talking about tenure policy, which is very important in the way the Kingdom property is treated. The owner's policy at the highest. Minister to set. If we were to take just one part of the matter and say that before such a change, people should put up a tenant policy, discuss it at the council, and try to achieve a solidarity over the matter; establish a solidarity of how to handle it, how to handle the property. Once a policy had been established, the setting would be created, how to treat those assets and the existing arrangement would be changed if this was thought to be necessary. No, it seems to be a sincere resolve to the highest degree. Governments, tops. Ministers to get these powers to the minister, get rid of the council, get rid of all this democratic coverage, create a kind of dictatorial situation about how such things are handled. We're talking about an enormous amount of value. Let us face things up when we read the General's study report and see what it was like and how soon it was. We are talking about 2000/2001, the sales of the 2002 banks, which were very different from those that had been discussed at the time of the council's decision to authorize such sales without any careful tools on how to do such a sale. Then, in the study report, the council's given green light, just open doors, you can do whatever you want, we've already given you green light. Are we going to do this again? If we are to act in that way, we will never be able to earn the confidence of the nation. That's what's sad for us at the council that we're going to ignore the nation again and say, "We're not going to take any notice of what happened here, we're just going to do the same. That's all there is to suggest. This is a completely unnecessary bill, completely premature. Now, no one's talking about being Banking for the rest of your life. At any rate, we need the setting so that not everyone ends and ridicules the case of the same Ministry under the same supreme command. Minister. What makes this situation even more strange is that one member of the board has expressed himself against many of the factors here. First of all, whether or not to put over the bank office. Second, there is the setting up for selling 30% shares in the Bank of Lands. One group of directors, the advance party, has described opposition to that end, with a large - scale release. I will not intend to ignore them the stand of their council. What, then, is creating a frame? We can also discuss why this will go to the budget board. Isn't that typical of what we've been experiencing repeatedly, i.e. that men have been choosing committees to avoid saying a case to the presidents of certain committees, thus culminating the committees that are likely to result in success? The Environment and Transport Committee has been ignored, although the environment and planning issues and the sector's issues are being discussed, they are now being sent to the heart. General and Education Committee. Now comes a case from the famous economist group. Note, the economist group made 120 suggestions, which are just like a list of requests that have never been discussed at the council. There's never been a discussion. What suggestions will be made? Yes, it is done on specific matters. All right. Then comes the argument that it was suggested by the economic group. Of these 110 to 120 suggestions, 80 were to 90 on the tables of the former government and the former government, but they never went through because they were curious and wicked. So the worst argument is to use the economy as a argument, these are arts of remembrance that have been loved by government officials because they have been asked for it but have not accepted any particular opinion. This is such a thing. I hope we don't add to the bad decisions of the government that send out the message to society that corruption is okay, that political benefits are all right, that we should accept that we are living in a government that would not be accepted in the countries around us, in the North countries, or in other countries that we would like to compare ourselves with. I'm not very interested in being a part of this game. I challenge the new senators who came here for Congress not to let this become the principle of the current Council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u205	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He came onto trust and credibility, and I think we need to agree to try to build it up against the nation after the crash. This bill does not seem to be a step in that direction. It is as if they are being turned back and pulled everything back on the board of Ministers where separation would be desirable, i.e. to the management of the financial property of the state. I haven't seen in the bill the reason to get into the operations that are under there, i.e. ... toputdownthe Bank County. I'd like to hear a minister's attitude - Minister, this may be a prediction -- why. A senator's handling of the state's surveillance role on financial companies, financial legislation and financial assets are under the same roof. I'm asking if it didn't cut, if it's a good administrative thing to do the job and the surveillance thing is all under the same roof. I'm asking if it doesn't stop and if it's not bad enough that it's over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u206	V.E.G. President. Yes, we agree on that, me and what. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, it's about trust and credibility. It's about giving the message that we want to do everything we can to make sure things are enjoyed in a professional and transparent way, but there is no risk of a group of catechisms. I also share worry. In view of the fact that there is evidence to indicate that things are going the same way. Many of the things we talked crazy about never being allowed to happen again, apparently, are allowing themselves to be brought back. What will be the result? I'm really worried about that. Consider, for example, the case of the Ministry of finance. The former government was then concerned that national interest forecasts were being carried out in the Ministry of finance. It was moved to a special ward to make sure that this was discussed in two places so that the discussion would be more careful. Here is exactly what it is. One senator says, you are being monitored, controlled by decisions, and everything under one hat, under Government or what's-her-name. Who will take care of the sale? It's also under the same department. It's all in one hand. How to create credibility at the same time as we are subjected to extreme criticism over decisions related to the family of the local minister, etc., which is difficult enough and may be very unsatisfactory. But there will not be a limit to the suspicion of adding this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u207	Mr. President. Yeah, I'm fine with that. A senator mentioned Kingdom Halls that are also under there to care for sales dealing of the items of the state in the banks and to be added. This further underscores the problem that all of this is under that same minister hat. It has now been observed that there are perhaps 50 million of the world's affairs around us. We're talking about a total of 3,200,300 billion, which is the value of the government's property in financial companies, so it's not that much of a saved ratio. Is there a problem? A senator sees that this is being justified professionally or in a practical way? Does he not believe that the time of the Generals at the end of this spring council is inadmissible to this issue that is not at peace?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u208	V.E.G. President. It has been noted in the earlier discussion that there is a question about the evidence against the bill on our part that has spoken against it. But I ask the reasons for the case because changes are being made and changes must be reasoned. There are many reasons to argue, including those that. A senator is hereby opposed, i.e. that the bill is late entering the council, and this is the case at the hands of one of the members of the board, regardless of how this will be solved within the council. True, there have been many declarations received from the advance party but then passed out during the council and through. But it is true that we are wasting the valuable time of the council in discussing matters that seem to be confusing. When it comes to economic management, it's always important to manage money. How important it is that we be careful there! But this is not the fastest thing right now. There have also been surveillance agencies, they started again, even institutions of surveillance, such as the FEC, funded by the bank sector rather than the government fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u209	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I'd like to have a word with him, because we dealt with the greater part of the budget, including those of the United States. of the Bank Office, and it is memorable that it was to be taken out of the budget and out of the budget without any bill being passed on. Happily, we were able to correct it to some extent and at least to bring in the budget so that there could be a salary and anything similar in the normal places, but not in places where it did not exist. 13th. shows what I've been thinking about, and I didn't get the answers today, that the law should come to a value on January 1, 2016. The bank administration has a budget for my year. Does the senator understand this as I do? So, what's going to happen to Bank County this six months? Is there a possibility that we could expect a request to be made in the budget or something? As a result, I would like to say that I feel unfaithful, because we are told of credibility and that we need to increase transparency and the like, when it is said that the advisory committee will have a position in the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs where the Ministry will provide assistance to information and data sources, calculations and other essential services related to its work. Only this seems to me to question credibility. Is the Ministry ready? According to what I'm reading from the bill, it seems that it should start to wonder how this could be, it doesn't exist. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u210	V.E.G. President. It is interesting to discuss this matter in connection with the discussion of the budget. We realize that the budget is a financial crisis for every year, but it also needs to be that way, as it is being tried to do here with the budget, that there is a message and a decision coming from the government body and the Senate as to who the handle is for financial law, not to be controlled, not to institutions or anything else, just by financial law. I can't see that anything can be reached, whether by this new bill or by any other, except by means of financial support. We have to face it. This proposal was so insane that when we were discussing it in December, the Agency was to fall out on January 1. The people haven't been dumped or anything. These were typical hero politics in which they planned to pass through this economist group, but they did not have a stone on a stone. There was no thought behind, no organization, and it was not to be expected by the terms of recruitment or otherwise. I'm not here to defend an institution. It's not about an institution. It's about work. It's about what the setting should be. This is about the credibility of the framework we create in regard to financial management. While we have nothing better than what has been done with the past few years, we are not supposed to change this. We're supposed to wait. I agree with what. A senator that by moving this into the Ministry needs to create a new division there. How will that person be used? If they're going to save some 40 million, some of the people who are there, who work in the budget and all those factors, are all around the table, even if they can change hats or move between rooms. This will always create suspicion, especially with regard to the past. That's what worries me, not whether there's an institution or not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u211	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I've been talking about something today and wondering why the Bank Department was founded, I think it's important that we keep it up. Of course, it's because of the privatization that happened here on the banks. The restoration has taken longer than we planned, so I agree that we should give the millions needed to run it this way. It has been a successful arrangement. We're talking about $2,250,300 billion assets that we get tens of millions of dollars each year, so I think it's going to get to stay. I feel that the project is taking on great power. We have a bill that expects a raise in financial requests, we've heard a discussion about the increase in bank managers, and I think this reflects the old that led to the collapse of the financial system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I feel like everything's going the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u212	V.E.G. President. I had time, and over the years I have had time to pay very close attention to what has happened in the decades since the banks were privateised. I knew well, and I watched, as well as how we developed and how we fell into the disaster. I would have sworn when I volunteered in 2007, the collapse of the bank had not occurred, we were here on the stage, that it would never happen again. I don't think so today. I feel that there's nothing to learn about. There is still 50 percent change. And now that the government has become so divided and two groups are fighting to be here, without any solidarity, the worst thing that can happen to them is that they are united in power and are changing between what is changing. Guð forbid, so I use famous quotations. This is not what we want, and it is not what can be done. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to hope that I'm not predictive of this, but that's exactly what I'm most afraid of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u213	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill on how to treat and sell the government's holdings on financial funds. I want to thank you. paritaprevir His speech was Guðbjartur by the son of Hannesson. First, I'm going to state in his words that he seemed to be drawn up as a subject of the bill with a sincere resolve to exercise authority over companies to ministers and that he did not believe that new members of Congress were participating in that game. I'll have to ask what. A senator: Is this his sincere faith, really his sincere belief that it is in this way? There are two factors that are important in the bill, and that have been true in the discussion. On the one hand, it is the long - term policy of the bank management that has indeed been in hand, and now it is to be replaced by a consulting committee and to guard the length of the arm. I want to ask you why. Senator on the Advisor Committee. V.E.G. A minister gave a good argument that the management of the holdings was being reduced, that's a board of directors and staff and the Commission are supposed to relieve it. In Comb 4. The bill calls for the advisory board, to be independent of its jobs and to publish its rules officially. Well, maybe. A senator who could not see, e.g. with some kind of changed arrangement for the location of the committee or order, even how it is planned, that the highest arm length may be maintained? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u214	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to say that when I say "one thing" to do, it basically means that everything that has been done points in the same direction. My words to new members of Congress are warning words. This is being changed, and I said at the beginning: If you're going to change, you're going to change. What I want to know is why they're changing? Yes, they're going to try to secure everything that the Bank Office was supposed to do in a new form. Then I'll say it's a counseling committee appointed by the highest order. A minister who handles the lawsuit itself gives rise to suspicion. I'm making a mess of it. For example, shouldn't it have been installed by the General, or by a set of rules, where politicians had nothing to do with who was appointed, or Supreme Court, or someone else? We are creating a system that allows one person to ship in the entire environment that will then work on it. Let us look to the workgroups that have been working around this new government now. I'd love to, if you know what I mean. A senator once wrote on paper for us all the opposers there. Or, for example, how many banks have been involved in the advice at the highest level. Government. I wonder if it's more than one. It's the piece of shit that's made up that makes me nervous, not because we're all in it, but we're really going to let it be our bath? And are the new senators just going to do this, go back around, start over because they don't have experience from this time? Those are my warning words. This isn't because I can claim it will be like this and my heartfelt wish is that it won't be like this. But this is an incentive to fight it, and we should build trust by creating much better rules and regulations than is stated here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u215	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer is now my sincere resolve to review this bill with the intention of fixing it if and where appropriate. We talked about the arm length, and I'd appreciate it if it happened. A senator told me if he could see the possibility of altering some sort of arrangement about the location of the committee so that the most pointed armworks will be kept. The second is that the process and treatment of property, if and when it comes to selling them, is open and beneficial, making them trustworthy and trustworthy. The circuit overseer discussed the matter as best he could. This is 8th, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13. par., 12. . g., the state's business is to be sold. Government review to monitor, Minister needs to submit a report to the Economic and Business Committee and what to do. The budget board, the review of the Federal Bank. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What does it want? A senator sees more? [[The president calls.]] Isn't that open and clear?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u216	V.E.G. President. It's not mean, it's from the heart, it's from what I say. A senator should follow the order of his party council to continue the banking business. Then he has met all these requirements. That's all it takes. Is it a great requirement for the senators of the House of forwards to follow their own free will? I'm going to hope that it's not so difficult for them to look for a hook - up to make a frame to please the highest order. Secretary of finance, or those who wish to change, and submit everything to one Ministry. We're talking about an institution with two employees plus a secretary and three men's government. There won't be much to handle at the Ministry of finance if it's going to cost a lot less. My word has been that people should abandon it. [[The president calls.]] Let us start doing something that is much more challenging and beneficial, thus trying to gain confidence in the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u217	A respectable president. Besides saying the concluding words of the last speaker, I wanted to emphasize to the president that it is totally unnatural how to make a proposal on the side of the highest scale. Secretary of finance to refer this to a committee, it's a disgrace to the council. So here is the chairman of the Council of the Council, which has described the viewpoint on the matter and then the Minister will respond to the decision to refer the matter to a whole other committee but has discussed the matter of the Council of Bank County. I'd like the President to discuss this with the Minister. This is not to say that if members of the Parliament have views, they will be disassociated to a committee. On the other hand, I wanted to take this opportunity and enter the highest. A president will decide whether or not the meeting is over, because I can't better see than we've passed by 11:30 and there's no way in time to finish this speech and... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u218	A respectable president. I'd like to start by asking the highest. President how long he intends to continue this meeting. We have a warrant to report until 12 o'clock, and it seems to me that something has gone out of time with it to the point. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra of the Year's Árnadóttir can finish his talk with the answers she may be able to follow. I think it's a small chance to break it apart, so she'll come back next week, because there's committee days tomorrow, the other Friday. Then I'd like to ask the highest. The President on the Committee, since I have not been at all in the discussion, whether or not a formal proposal was made that the case should be referred to the Economic and Business Committee, as I understand that the Council's Office has prepared. If not, I'm doing it here as my suggestion, because it's actually the only proper committee to discuss the subject presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u219	A respectable president. I find a little characteristic now in a number of matters that enter this council, large and important, that from the beginning it is clear that there is no agreement between the governments. This is one of the subjects we've spent a lot of time discussing. This is a matter in which we are in great need of government because we are concerned about the consequences of the matter and because it is clear that there is no solid agreement in the greater part of the government. Yet, people stress spending our time at the council to discuss the matter knowing that there is not necessarily a great chance that there will be even a cut-off here. A respectable president. I wondered if it would be necessary to take a step back, and the government groups are beginning to organise themselves a little, cross it over at the short time that remains of this council any matter they think they have to come through, whatever the issues they want to come through and discuss with us in the government side of how they're going to do so. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u220	The president would like to ask if he missed anyone who kept quiet about the President's conference board. And then there was. 9th. That's the north side. "Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir says about the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u221	Mr. President. I made it my suggestion in a speech earlier today that the case should be conducted by the Economic and Business Committee. Here was the chairman of that committee today and assumed that the matter would come to him. I spoke to him about it, and he was surprised to learn that the matter did not go to that committee, and this also surprises us. I asked members of the Parliament about this. I think the President has to answer if it's proper for the Ministers to turn matters to the committees where they think they might have a career. In this case, there may be more to the economic and business committee than to the budget. When the Bank Board was set up, it was conducted on a financial and business committee, a current business committee, and it is therefore extremely unusual at this point that the case does not occur. Since a minister has not been here today after giving the hearing, I do not know whether a discussion has been made with him whether he intends to change it. [[The president calls.]] I'll ask a president about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u222	Regarding this question, it is simply so that if there are disagreements about where to point a matter, it can be decided only by voting on it. This will likely be done if two suggestions made by the president are presented on the evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u223	A respectable president. Now it is often a desire to pay for action to answer to what is directed to you. It has been asked about the continuation of the meeting of several members of the council, and I think that the meetings and the rest of the program must be paid to answer the relatively simple questions raised. I'll just make it right. We have, as mentioned earlier, been authorized until 12 p.m., and it would be interesting if a speaker had to respond to his talk here on Monday next week and it is not customary here in the Senate to do so in this way. That's why I'm surprised.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u224	It was intended for the president to answer the question asked when the discussion had ended with President's conference board so that he could review other questions asked for him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u225	Mr. President. I would like to express my dissatisfaction that this matter is addressed here on the agenda, since there seems to be such a disagreement between the board members of the board about it. Hv. The chairman of the Economic and Business Committee declared it in his talk that it was not too long for him to lower the government's banking office that the issue on the subject may be resolved. Then you will ask yourself: " Which committee is more likely to be the best peacemakers to resolve the problems of the members of the board on the matter? I think it is very bad that there is no way to recommend the matters on the program, which say the Parliaments have proposed, and that the most precious time of the council is spent on this matter that is of little agreement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u226	A respectable president. Where the highest. The president cannot tell us whether or not this meeting will be held and if so. paritaprevir The Árnadóttir Þóra Aarnadótir, which is next to the rosary, should be spoken here or not, at least not. enter to him wishes to have the highest. At the end of this meeting, the secretary of finance will be at least present. It has not been seen for any time in the evening, and I think it is at least minimal that men complete a meeting with the minister's presence, which is as controversial and as true, not only among the government but also among the government classes. I don't like it if I'm at the highest. Minister is not here to answer at least the perplexing questions that have been raised.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u227	A respectable president. I think deeply about the situation that is presented here with reference to committees and is repeatedly taking place at this council. A Ramma program was referred to professional committees, not environmental committees. The natural pass to the employment committee, not to the environmental committee. Protective areas based on the General and Education Committee, but not the Environment Committee, and then this case referred to as Committees rather than to Economic and Business Committees. V.E.G. The President points out that the only way to determine this is by giving a vote in a Senate hall. That can be true. But it's not also right to look to the council when they make such a clear statement as this, as well as to have the banking bill in its own time, through the then economic and business committee or business committee. I think this is a thought - provoking subject that we should discuss at the scene of our councils and on the Committee for the Presidency for some future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-05-102.u228	This discussion about the President's conference board began at about 11:30 p.m., and anyone older than two times realized what the foxes were cut to do, that was to prevent them from happening. Þóra The Árnadóttir Thornaddddóttir should say under this part of the program, and this has been successful. Let's talk about these things the way they are, and for those who do not know well about these things, let's try informing them.
