ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u1	Borist has a letter from what? Councilman 10 of the United States of Rhiv. S., Jón Þór Ólafsson, that he will not be able to attend a meeting in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly 1, a deputy of Pirata's district name, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir. Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir has previously taken up residence at the General Assembly, and she is welcome to serve again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u2	Borist has written a letter from the Department of Professional Road and Development that asks for every appointment to give a written answer to a letter on the question of robotics. 709, on market division and competition in a day-to-day store, from Steingrímur J. Sigfússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u3	To answer, Prime Minister, Minister of Social Affairs and Homeland Affairs, Foreign Minister and Minister of State.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u4	A respectable president. At a fine meeting that the government groups held last week, on the elimination of a currency stand, there were three primeists who covered the problem, both the release of the sea as such, but not a mention of what would happen if the oceans were released, what future we would see for us, whether the continuation of any sort of seas or rules would be. The Precautions of the National Bank were considered in this context or if there would be other routes, how much such rules would need to be in order to ensure the public's stability and standard of living. There was a number of interesting things that came out, but one of the most interesting was the harmony that one felt with both the questioners and the speakers. The meeting was well attended by all sorts of people who were primarily interested in the discussion, to hear what was going on, what was happening, what they saw. It was the view that it would be very important not to be secretized, that they would need to be open just in order to have an open discussion about them so that they could be reconciled in the community. It is clear that the subject is an enormous, dignified president. If we are to succeed, we need to agree on where we are going, as well as on what will take place if we are able to get rid of the oceans. I wanted to direct a question to the highest. The prime minister, in view of the fact that he made this statement, reminds me over a year ago, that such a plan was not right to make public, it did not serve its purpose but should be classified: Has the Supreme One. The Prime Minister's View Changed? Is he still thinking that plans for delinquency should be classified, and it is better that the public learn of them through leakage of information in the media or has he changed his mind and that it is important that this be done in public, so that we succeed in making peace? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u5	A respectable president. Like what? A senator knows of enormous interests, interests that depend on how to achieve emissions, not just the interests of society and the public in this country, but on a vast amount of interests, including. The bank's foreign claimors. It is no secret for them to do things in order to care for their enormous interests and to have hired many people to work here on land, lawyers, public relations companies, etc. Among the most important things for which one seems to be, one is to get information about government policy and what they intend to deal with in a way that enables them to achieve their best interests and possibly reduce or weaken Iceland's and community along with emissions. As a result, I can answer back. A senator completely explained that I still feel the same way I was last year, or when I made that statement as a matter of course. A senator testified that it is important that this work be not made public until it has been completed or is at the point where it is not at risk in any way damaged, affected by any damage that would make it harder for the Icelandic government to solve its seas in a successful way for the entire population of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u6	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Prime Minister for a clear answer. But if our objective is to find a successful solution for the public in the country, does that not mean that the public should be aware of what that solution is? I can agree with the highest. Prime Minister, our primary objective is to ensure that the country's market does not interfere with the task of delegating. We're supposed to be guided by this project. But keeping matters confidential - is it not better to think that attendance is the best defense? Looking at things that are such that you read about these things in magazines - not just me, that is, about the public in the country - isn't it better to play soccer and to do this as openly as possible to create peace? That's what I also asked about in my previous question. It's a big deal, it's gonna affect the votes of the public. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. Do we not need to open up our discussion on these matters so that we can create a solid agreement?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u7	A respectable president. We can agree on that, me and what. A senator, that there is the right to play the parish ball, as it was said, in this matter. But when it comes to choosing to play soccer, they do not begin by introducing their application plan, how they plan to advance, to the data panel or team they're competing with, so we stick to the illustration. Then you might ask, " Is this a competition? Is it a test for information? ' So I have to say yes, a respectable president, at least in regard to a section of these parties, because they have shown in their jobs that they are primarily, and perhaps you can say normally, to protect their interests and to try to optimise them, but there is something that will follow up in Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u8	A respectable president. I'd like to have a word with the foreman in the government, Chief. Prime Minister, the Senate work, and the government's work for a short period of time. I don't think there's much coming from the government. I think it's a useless government. I don't think any basics can enter a chamber from the government, and I've had that feeling for a while. I decided to review matters that have come from the government for the rest of this council. There are a lot of issues that are rooted in the EEA proposals, and there are, however, several obligatory cases, such as budgets and budgets, and giving citizen's rights and so on. It is a lot of matters involving timing and such slang of pre-existing law and of many cases that are really not government policy issues but are rooted in other policies or were submitted to the last term, taking root in committee work that was long before the government began. So I have come to the conclusion after a casual review that there have been extremely few cases entered a chamber of some kind of government matter and is rooted in the government's policy declaration, which are presented to the government's initiative. I kind of remember just one big case, which is a correction of the prices of the mortgage, a case that is attributable to the government's policy and is very controversial. I'd like to be curious about asking the highest possible question. The prime minister would be able to mention any other cases that have been presented at the council for a short period of time that stems from the government's policy beyond that one matter, which is the correction of debt. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What else is that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u9	A respectable president. Last of all, I was now expecting a senator to complain that people would calm down by saying a case at the World Council. The government has produced a great number of cases during this council and the last. I don't have to be the one to trace it to. A senator what it is. He can simply look into the Generals' Web site and visit the government file. But the government has, of course, been working according to its policy on the issues it has put forth in all cases, that kind of claims itself. At the same time, it has achieved tremendous success in a number of areas, attacking the areas of improvement for all the schemes under the government, and restoring the country's economy to a wide range of conditions, including the same. I've been there, I don't remember what the last number was, but probably high in 7 yous. new jobs for the remainder of the season. Inflation has not been as low as it has been for decades. Economic growth has increased or will do so this year and will be with the highest level of Europe. As a result, the government has established stability in the country. We no longer live with the political insecurity and turmoil prevalent here in all areas or in many areas of society during the last terms. We're in a state of stability. That may be the problem. A senator experienced it as unnecessary or too calm, and he would rather have more problems here. But I don't remember any better than that. A senator has found himself one thing that the government has worked to get aglow over over over the years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u10	A respectable president. I asked a very simple question. It's great news. The prime minister could not mention one matter, one matter of Congress, beyond the duels I mentioned himself, which was opposed and is controversial. He could not mention a single case that has entered the council of what is of the terms of the term, which is rooted in a highly ambitious government policy declaration or is presented as some kind of major progress under the administration of the government. This is incredible. And we're looking at all the projects in Icelandic society. Don't you have a choice? Don't you think it's time to settle down in a fishing road? Is that what they're saying on the way in here? Don't you need to reorganize the housing market? Is that not what they've been talking about? Are there bills on the way? The government speaks of a campaign in human health, an effort to get information to the public. Are there any bills on the way? I'd like to ask the highest. Prime Minister of whatever prime radios are at peace in the government and are developments based on government policy are on the way here in the spring? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u11	A respectable president. I can't figure out which game I've got at. A senator who then gets worked up and starts yelling in a speech chair and demands that I count out the case of the government. [[Top of the list: Reply.]] Hv. A senator has found... [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] A respectable president. What kind of bother is there in this room? Hv. In recent years, a senator has found a number of issues, in the past year and a half, which the government has proposed, which he has considered to be a reason to appear here on a public speaker, perhaps not quite as excited as he was earlier that I would not want to feed him on the affairs of the government. Yes, it may be difficult to mention one matter, but it is easy to mention 200, because if we were to mention one matter, we would be taking it out of the enormous number of cases that the government has committed and had success in, the result is that. A senator here comes on a talk chair and screams in every direction, in a moment of emotion, that I don't want to choose my favorite government case. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u12	President. I asked a question during the last term in 2012, about something called the police file, "LappREE another name. " In answer to the inquiry I asked if there was any law on the destruction of information in the database, it was found that there were no rules for this. That's why I wanted to ask the highest. The Minister of the Interior State, whether anything has been done since 2012 to sharpen and set out regulations in this regard. It is very important that people experience that information about it in such a large database is removed. In answer to my question at the time, it was noted that 19,621 companies and 325,003 individuals were enrolled in the police class, 19,754 dead. So I would like to ask, "What is it like when people are removed from the registry and how does it feel when a person dies? What does it take for the person to be taken off the file? " Then I'll ask you more detailed questions in the second query tool which will depend on how the register is, who has access and who will receive data from the database, because there are very great defects in how this file is registered.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for asking that question. Part of the points she brings up are that I need space to look into the matter, especially the points she mentions about the persons enrolled; its more detailed interpretation in inquiry is that I don't have it on rhythms. I need to have a chance to answer that question, and maybe it would be better for me to be able to do so if there was a special inquiry, and of course I will get the information you want in it. I see why. A senator is also considering this background information and what he has been working on in this regard. As I have said from this chair and publicly, I'm putting this whole matter in perspective, both in terms of police authority and then in part the rights of the citizens, and in part, it can be said that this will speak a little into it. We're in preparation for the State Department bill to correct the change in air travel and navigation laws that set up background checks. It's still in progress, so it's not finally come to me, but it's dealing with things that seem to be in a clearer way than it's currently in the law. And that's what I want to say to what. A senator that I think it is very important for us to review these rules very thoroughly, that they are as well designed as can be made to ensure that rights are fully guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u14	President. Thank you so much for the answer. I wanted to point out that if there's some country that would be a good thing to consider about the safety of citizens, in connection with how databases are put up, it's Germany. It's good to see how the Germans behave. But I'm worried about how it's written in a file. Let's say I call the police and tell them I saw a car crash, and I'm in the file. Let's say I made a phone call about something else, I've got two cases in the file. Suppose a relative or a friend is a criminal, I too am connected to him if we have been in the same place. It is therefore very lacking in how this system is enrolled and how important it is to have accurate job descriptions. At the same time, it is very clear who gets access and how information is provided from the Constitution to other parties, such as. Professional drivers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u15	V.E.G. President. I may not have much to add at this point, but I would like to say that it will be more and more important - as it has always been, but I think that we need to be especially careful today - that any level of confidential information is being treated with security. We need to be open to the changes and rapid developments in these areas. I don't think there's something we finish once and then we can think that's okay, but it's an ongoing project, so, of course, I'll check it out. For the bill that's in the car, I can't guarantee it will happen during this council, I'm not sure, but it's coming. It is hoped that soon it will be better understood to see how it rhymes with other viewpoints and what others need to consider.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u16	A respectable president. I have asked for the promised keys bill, which includes the rejection of forced sales by those who do not have the right to the administration of the government, e.g. The ones who did their right in the 110% route. V.E.G. The prime minister has previously spoken about the importance of taking drastic measures for those who have restricted housing as well as for maintaining financial interests for the future. Finally on Friday, the highest line answered. The Minister of Ministers, therefore, so that such a bill would not be in the planning and not on the program, would not have been the result of the administration of the government talks, but it was not part of them. So I ask the highest. Prime Minister, who led the administrative debate on behalf of the forward party, how it is said that the key bill should not be kept. Both the forwarding party and the Independence Party praised their voters on key bill. How could two political groups, who had the same campaign promise in this subject, create a government for four years without their joint resolution to keep the promise of a key bill? Which members of the board were then opposed to the development of the key element? Was it the forwarding party that prevented the Independence Party from obtaining it or the Independence Party that prevented the forwarding party from fulfilling it? Or did the tribes agree to break their promise? Or didn't either band mean anything by the promise?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u17	A respectable president. V.E.G. The local minister of the hall pointed out to me the problem. A senator would have misunderstood his answer. It didn't surprise me, but I immediately noticed that he was completely mistaken, considering that he was at the highest point. In time, the minister of the Interior had responded. It's for the wrong view. A member of Congress that it was not the policy of this government to work on such primary things because, according to the government's conduct programme, the action due to the debt, the first Senate hearing proposed at a new council, was instructed to see how the above-name apartments could be made possible to be freed without abduction from the posts that the mortgage itself does not exist. - It was a direct quote, with the permission of a respectable president. This was taken up, in accordance with this description, since the synonym accepted here, if I recall correctly, of all members of the council, wasn't it? [[Foreground on: No.]] - No, no, I'm sorry, Mr President, it wasn't that good, it wasn't everyone who saw the benefits. Hv. For example, a member of the body can recall whether he backs up the matter. This was done on the roads of these advisers and, like a whale, was done. A senator knows, for this has been discussed in the past, making comments to the suggestions set out there and did not consider them to be in violation of the constitution, i.e. ... toredevelopmentsof credit institutions. This was failed by a new route, and now there is a bill for introduction on the Homepage of the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Supreme Court. An internal minister said here a few days ago, they're not working on the case, because there's a bill that goes on that the requirements of forced real estate fail to be met and that fall outside the market value of real estate will grow old in two years. [[The president calls.]] This can help us avoid this problem that the Court's Committee pointed to a violation of the Constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u18	A respectable president. I'm happy if it's true what Prime Minister says, that there is a planned bill from the Ministry of Internal Affairs, unlike what was said here on Friday, about some kind of key bill. But that word was quite long, the highest. Minister, and I remember that the wording promised was much clearer and shorter. That's what that means, the highest. Prime Minister, could it not be possible to bankrupt people on the basis of demands that are relative after being sold off sale? In other words, can you continue to follow people with the demands of forced auctions and fail with those demands? That's what both groups promised people that they wouldn't be able to do. I'm waiting for the highest. The prime minister to confirm that his purpose is to fulfill it and then to declare that it is due here before March 26th, because the funds have begun.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u19	A respectable president. It wasn't quite right after what happened. A senator in each of the conclusions and suggestions given by the classes would have been hidden. The important thing is that by the means of the presentation currently available on the Homepage of the State Department, it allows people to be released from these related requirements over two years, i.e. that they grow old in two years. At the same time, it is being considered, for example, on the basis of a camp loan fund, that it does not violate the expiration requirement that stands outside the market value of real estates for forced sale until these new laws hopefully become valid. And so it's fine, since I have a little time here, to use this opportunity to add that there is also a particular concern that the tenant's trial status, i.e. that as long as they can rent their housing for up to 12 months from an forced sale, the tenant himself will have lived in the real estate, not for up to 12 months, but for at least 12 months, I would say. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u20	V.E.G. President. There has been a significant recent debate in the community on the state police report, which reviews key factors in the development of assessments of terrorism in Europe and other parts of the North countries. This government report offers suggestions based on this assessment. So I'd like to go to the highest. The prime minister, by what opinion he feels about strengthening police research documents, enhances them as one proposal here says; but this, by permission of the president: As a result of the investigation of a violation of the government and the highest government, such as terrorist violations, such as X. and XI, the legal action of the police would be considered. the section of the general penal code. It is important that we learn what the prime minister's viewpoint is, but as everyone here knows the viewpoints involved in the privacy and freedom of the individual, we must, of course, take on the important task of ensuring the security of our citizens. I believe it is important that we continue this discussion. An internal minister has announced that working at the Ministry is now starting to map what is being discussed on premeditated protocols and where it might be possible to go. What's the poll? Prime Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u21	A respectable president. I'm gonna give myself to me and what. A senator argues that it is always necessary to protect himself when it comes to observing the citizens from the government or from any other official authority. It's a basic prince I think I am and what I do. A senator arguing. However, it must be said just as it is that if we look at the situation and the assessment made by the police, it would be completely irresponsible for governments not to give attention to the fact that these authorities may need to be cleared up. But it must be called to mind, for the discussion of this matter is often going out in many parts of the world, that this is not talking about giving some open authority to watch the citizens. No, it will always need a ruling until, in most cases, the government, the court, has a warrant for such observation. It doesn't have to be remembered before then. In recent years, there have been hundreds of phone taps to form in various cases, especially in recent years on cases related to the collapse of the bank. Clearly, such measures can be used when terrorism is being prevented, as it has been shown in the United States and many European countries, including North countries, that such authorities were needed to prevent terrorist attacks. If they were not available, terrorism in these lands would have been almost indistinguishable. Therefore, it would be very irresponsible for governments not to respond to these police indications.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u22	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer that was perfectly clear. It's right next to the highest. Ministers that we share the idea that we must approach the earth with caution when talking about individual freedom. It is also true that here the police are not asking for any additional research warrants in all respects. Rather, this is a case of premeditated protocols subjecting them to an investigation of violations directed against the government and supreme government, such as terrorist violations, so we are all talking about things on the same basis. I'm waiting to get the report to the highest level. The Minister of the Interior has proclaimed work to be done. We will then approach the discussion of responsibility and discuss the suggestions and possibilities there will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u23	A respectable president. I agree with this food. Senator. We've grown up here in Iceland living in a peaceful community where the safety of our cities is more than just around the world, I think it's safe to say. Of course, we would like to maintain that condition in Icelandic society, but in order to ensure it, in order to maintain the peace and security we have enjoyed in Iceland, we need to respond to the trend around us and at least look at the police tips and how we will respond to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u24	V.E.G. President. You're right, now we're beginning a discussion about a so-called TiSA interview, Trade in Services Agreement, which has been in the load in the third year. They began in earnest after the middle of 2013. I had raised questions during the council I was directed to. The minister of foreign affairs decided to retract them when the council agreed to make this special discussion. My questions were rooted in a report by the Secretary of State since March 2014, which refers to the TiSA conferences in the matter of interest in the service trade, in cooperation with recruitment with the job life, and in providing additional consultations with labour market stakes. I wanted to know how that job went, who were the above-diagnosed people in the workforce, and how the cooperation with them was behaved. Then I wanted to know about commitments from Iceland, especially health care. There have been reports of some of its basic features being overlooked in Iceland's proposals, but what about the overall health care and other factors that can be listed under community infrastructure? Then there is a core question about the final outcome of the contracts or the decision, whether they will not be submitted to the General before being placed on paper in contracts. It caught my attention in the reply of writing the highest answer. Foreign Minister, we're gonna ask you why. paritaprevir Last year, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, who was asked for this feature in particular, says the highest. Minister, with permission of presidents: The agreement will be made official as soon as it's signed. Wouldn't it be easier to make the contract official before it's signed and signed and signed under the General Assembly before it is signed by the Icelandic Minister? The answers I refer to here also state that these contracts are ordinary contracts. So I testify in the highest answer. Minister, with permission of presidents: This is a standard business discussion, which is in the standard practice in Icelandic administration. That's not true. This is not a routine negotiation. First of all, commitments are irreversible on behalf of Icelandic society. If we put this commitment into practice, it will not be taken back. It's marked with the TSA interview and the GATS interview at the same time. So it is crucial that we put on paper. The fact is, countries that want to twist evolution and withdraw their commitments are at risk of contracting and exorbitant damages. This makes these discussions special. Another factor that makes them special is the secrecy upon them. If WikiLeaks had not been created in June last year, we would not have been able to walk the discussion in the way we did. Then we got the papers, and we're still getting information on how to walk. From these sources, I am specifically referring to the proposal or encouragement That Testimony on the privatization of health care services discussed at a meeting of mercenaries in Geneva last September. It would be informative to get information on this subject. It is combined with GATS, since it was Britain's newspaper Guardian who informed about the talks that would have been secret in April 2002 and that we owe WikiLeaks a debt to pay for the information. Another factor is morality. Here, the richest nations of the world are going behind the poor part of the world. 160 countries are involved in the World Trade Organization. 123 of these countries were in the GATS interview. When they fell off because of the dissatisfaction of the international labor movement and the poor part of the world that did not want the commercial powers and the capital elements into their pockets, the social gospels of services, as it is called, went in secret talks. Icelanders are one of them, and I think it's immoral. [[The president calls.]] What's the top count? Secretary of state? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u25	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for these questions. The past few years have shown a very favorable trend in the export and services of this country and are currently a service trade of nearly 40% of Iceland's overall business with the outside world. Thus, export is an important part of the Icelandic economy, especially in sea transport, energy sector, tourism, information and technology, and technology. According to Iceland's Habitat figures, an export of over 482 billion in 2013 was obtained, while the import of service was nearly 335 billion. As a result, the 2013 Netherlands service balances over 147 billion dollars. In 2014, a positive service balance has been made at a similar level. So it is an enormous interest in the Icelandic economy. In connection with the TiSA negotiations, the State Department of State has focused on effective information flows and consultations with the Department of Professional Affairs, subspaces and interest organizations. The extent of the service trade is such that their content depends on all the Ministry, as well as on services trades in most sectors and on various stakeholders. The necessary part of negotiation policies is to have a clear view of the markets of Icelandic companies working or seeing future markets, the type of service trade, extent, etc. In view of this, the Ministry set up a consultation process for the services trade based on active information sharing and discussion of the services trade and the status of negotiations among the sector's less active sectoral sector, business organisations and other stakeholders and services organisations. The Ministry, as well as the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the Ministry of Health, also conducted a meeting of information on the discussions between ASI, BSRB, and BHM during the first part of the last year. Then other stakeholders have requested information meeting on the talks the State Department has, of course, responded. This government's been sending regular information on the progress of the discussion. In the spring of 2014, the State Ministry promoted a national interest campaign to cooperate with key stakeholders and companies, including Business, industry, trade and services, tourism, tourism, and the Icelandic geothermal. Information about business interests and business barriers is requested by companies in foreign markets in the service trade. Then the Ministry also advertised a special address on her home page and encouraged the audience to make comments. Thus, it has been a clear, open process where everyone is free to send tips to the Ministry on their business interests. On the basis of the above discussion, Iceland's Translation Association has now sent the Ministry a review of Iceland and the TiSA talks. The field analysis is now in final stages and is estimated to be in the beginning of April. Asking why. A candidate is also asked if there is any way to negotiate market services in health care or any other component that may be listed as social services. In answer to this, it is appropriate to inform you that on the basis of Iceland's proposal, which has been proposed in the field of TiSA, Iceland does not make any commitments regarding a service either public or as a basic service to the public in this country. Iceland thus has no intention of taking on commitments to the market areas of public activities or of basic services in the public. At the same time, Iceland's proposal is specifically made that Iceland will not achieve any commitments to health related services, social services, or education. From the foregoing it is clear that on the part of Iceland it is strongly emphasized that no commitment will be made to markets for foreign service providers in terms of public service today. Finally, the question remains. The senator asked if any possible contract results will be submitted to the General before signing them. Given the fact that the TiSA deal will not require any legal adjustment in this country, the approval of the Alliedis is not reserved for a contract that will be validated by Iceland, but in the 21st century. The Constitution says that the approval of the Generalis is needed when treaties with other states that include exodus or excommunications, immunity, or legal adjustment. Despite the fact that the contract will not require legal adjustments, I still believe it is normal for the General to have access to the case before the contract is validated by Iceland. It would be the same as it has been observed with free trade agreements that Iceland does with its members, i.e. that the government submit a synonym to the plagion proposal for the validation of the contract. In addition, the State Department will continue to inform and introduce the existing agreements as rapidly as possible. However, before signing the contract, I do not see a special need for the matter to be conducted by the General Assembly. As mentioned earlier, the contract is not expected to call for legal adjustments in this country, and it is not consistent with the administrative routine in this country that the Council takes sides with it before it is signed. I think it's a goal of both. A senator is completely reached by having close contact with a foreign press committee I've mentioned, and I restate that this is not the case with the basis of the situation. A senator asked about this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u26	Mr. President. The sooner you get to it, you get to take a step. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson's wave for the rest of us as to the appeal of stupid piazza. I honestly say it's convenient to be in that safe haven. This struggle is between us. A senator against the TiSA agreement is following his long struggle at the time, with the support of the labor movement and many others against the European Union's service directive that, at first, would have been able to contribute to the privatization of the health system. I'm saying two things very clearly: I'm against the privatization of the health system, but I have a free store. The question, then, is whether the agreement on this subject conflicts with, for example, my attitude as an equal. I don't think there is, I believe answers to the highest. Ministers are perfectly clear. I'd like to say that too, because why? The proverb has spoken of secrecy, and there have been other members of Congress that cannot be accused of this Supreme Court. Minister of foreign affairs for any such thing in this matter, and not in itself either. I believe the Ministry of State is exemplary in communicating information to other authorities. With regard to this relatively significant issue under discussion, it is absolutely clear that since the first few days, the Ministry has taken an interest in informing. First of all, it has presented all the items online, so the public has been able to observe this. What you can point out, however, is that countries involved in this, such as the United States, have not wanted to inform themselves about their own goals, and that is just their business. I can't insist on calling Iceland to inform us, but me and Iceland, just like Swiss people, have been on the tip of information because both countries have informed about each of their steps in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u27	A respectable president. We'll discuss the TiSA negotiations and we've done that before at the Hall of Congress. I reiterate what came out then, that me and us in the Bright Future strongly emphasize that in all such talks, we are trying to maintain as much transparency as possible. It is a pleasure to hear a talk in the highest part. A minister of how well his discussions have been handled, and information on them has been opened on the part of the Ministry of State. In general, I'd like to agree that Iceland has a lot to do with international, international, business, and business with the outside world. So Iceland is very important when all our closest business countries and neighbors are involved in such discussions. But how important it is that such things are always done, guided by the fact that they do not have a wonderful influence and change our social profile! As mentioned in the Sermon on the Mount. Minister and minister. There is an agreement, if necessary, which is irreversible and will have great consequences for the future. So it is of great importance that the Council is a major part of these talks, not just in the final stages, but during those events as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u28	A respectable president. I'm going to tell you in the beginning of my speech that the cornerstone of every country is trade. When foreign trades are added, people do what they know best and do best. It is clear from recent developments that Iceland is doing quite well in the service trade. I served as a young man who sent to the city of Reykjavík, where 25 tugs were in this town and five large freezers. Today there are five tugs and one freezer, i.e. Society has changed from being a manufacturing community in a service community. As a result, we have a tremendously favorable service level of 140How150 billion. It may be that the favorable service balance is a problem inside the product exchange, but this is at least a great deal of interest, so it is normal and, in fact, of course, that Iceland is involved in free service transactions to promote the world's prosperity. The foreign minister has clearly identified what is not involved in this business, so society is not subject to it, but certainly they know how to benefit from this service trade. I often ask myself, " What is secret? ' So far, I've had too much information in my hands. Here I come in a speaker's stand of 40 pages after I got some information about TiSA, and I had the highest confidence. The minister of foreign affairs is fully responsible for bringing this matter to its conclusion and that the State Department will be instructed on the subject at any stage. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u29	President. Thank you for your discussion. This was shown to be just in this case to represent the TiSA, i.e. ▪TiSA-traportur, calls for an ◯public sector, i.e. The public sector will be excluded from TiSA. At the same time, it also states that the representatives of the European Union are in favor of the TiSA square, or the TiSA Convention will be published so that I hope to the highest degree. So a minister would be all for you, too. The pressure that has been placed on the secrecy around this has caused some minor trouble. What bothers me a little after taking the fight with Icesave with the highest. Minister of the Interior, then fierce. Senator, we know that international contracts often contain adverse errors, as was the first Icesave deal. I don't think it's good to know that the Council can't bring any changes or criticism to this contract before it is signed or that we can see it. I think it's pathetic. I feel like the highest. At least a minister should ensure that we members of the Parliament will have the opportunity to see the contract before it is signed, and it is very important that the Council will not be able to change this agreement at all. I want us to get to see him just like everyone else. It is quite clear that he will not be rejected, there is too much at stake, but what will follow? Why don't we just cook it up? I'm worried about this development, because there's a lot of things in the GATS deal that could have been better handled on behalf of us and others, especially... less developed countries. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u30	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Mr. Jónasson's son for taking up a discussion about Iceland's arrival at the TiSA interview. I'm pretty nervous about this conversation. Like an adulation, it may be the TiSA conversation that makes them worry. Hv. A senator pointed out that there was little involvement in the International Business Committee negotiations for the GATS agreements and that 51 countries were actually broken out, and they plan to make their own agreement and then try to get the rest of the countries to enter it afterwards. I don't think it sounds very good because it's supposed to be about the service trade, but it says on the website of the State Department that there is no proper definition of what fits into the concept of the service trade. It's a clear letter on the Department of State's Homepage. V.E.G. The minister spoke before on the importance of cooperation with the Ministry of Education. However, we witnessed in an unprepared question period some time ago in the exchange of words. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter and the highest. A health minister said that something has failed there regarding a message coming along. Finally, the highest. Minister spoke of a service under which the government today should not fall, but what happens now if Iceland changes law and privatizing something into our health care department? [[The president calls.]] Will that mean it's up to the TiSA deal?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u31	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator and a representative of the Augmund son of Jónasson for a very interesting discussion. I also read an article after the senator who appeared in the morning of February 23rd, during which the senator tore various smells of the TiSA deal and compares the process with the GATS interview and the attempt of OECD in the 1990s with the development of MAI, Multilateral Agreement on Investment. In the preceding article and in a talk by the senator, we will see clearly that we are concerned. A senator's main concern is that TiSA talks are even about public service markets and that some of the public is going behind them. I agree with some of them. A senator has pointed out, we must be cautious and critical; the interests of the common people should always be put first. So I was happy to hear the talk. Minister of State of Information on the TiSA Convention and extensive consultations have been made with the Department of Professional Affairs, Sub-Centers and Nationalitation, e.g. ASI and BSRB. The highest severity was also observed. Minister of interest analysis is in final stages and is expected to exist at the beginning of April. It's going to be very exciting to see it. I also like to hear that the Icelandic government strongly stresses that no commitment will be made regarding the market access to foreign service employers because of the services now in the hands of public bodies. This is a very important thing. Most important, the General will have access to the case before the contract is fully validated by Iceland, as has been the custom of free trade agreements. I don't think there's any particular danger, but it's urgent that we senators stay awake and defend the interests of the public in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u32	President. One of the stupidest things often to be done is to keep a secret. I recall negotiating about the European Economic Area, which included the Official Rule of the European Union, branded as confidential data in contracts. It seems that there is some sort of non-finished endpoint going on at the TiSA interview, which is why, in my opinion, has become more unnecessary around them. However, it should be noted that, for example, the Swiss have published their highlights from the beginning and the European Union has also published their views on these data. V.E.G. The minister of foreign affairs expressed very carefully how consultations have been made in this country with stakeholders and especially with those involved in these matters. All of this is also on the U.S. Department's Homepage. Maybe it could've been printed earlier, but it's done already. I welcome the way a foreign minister describes how all of this works. I'm also especially happy to be the highest. The minister of state leaves no doubt that there will be a pact proposal for the matter to be made to finalize the council. It also needs to be kept in mind that a foreign - language committee can at any time call for information on the course of conversation because this is a natural major foreign matter, so a foreign committee can do this. I'd like to say, eventually, that we want to be part of the world, and that's why we must be part of this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u33	V.E.G. President. In this matter, you need to ask a few questions. Of course, this has been discussed, probably both in the field of the former government, where the decision was made to participate in these discussions and in the present government. First, of course, the question is: Should the Icelanders include such talks? To me, the answer is clear: Yes. I think it's a good thing for Iceland and Icelandic life that Iceland is involved in a business venture in this area. I think it's for our benefit and that it has a lot more opportunities than threats. That's my basic position on this matter. It may then be added that the states and governments that have led these discussions or that have worn them are, of course, also our greatest business countries, both east and west, so that if we did not take part in this, it would blow off. Second, it is reasonable to ask, "Is the treatment of these agreements abnormal? " I don't think so. Based on the information that has been presented on the State Department and during discussions at the council, I have seen that this is a very traditional way of handling matters and not a reason to comment on it. I rejoice, however, when people talk about an increased consultation with the Generals Department of State and tell me in my part that I will use myself to keep a close eye on these matters by a foreign committee. We've had two sessions about them in the winter and one discussion at the council, and no doubt we'd be able to expand our arrival and be happy if good cooperation is achieved. Third, I say, this case will eventually come to the council to confirm before any commitments will be made to Iceland, and then, of course, we will take sides in a democratic way whether this is a partnership we have. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u34	President. It is very important to bear in mind that we would never have known of these spectacular ideas coming from the Turks on the health system and subtly subversive personalization if it had not resulted in a leak of data from these discussions. We would never have known about the experiments in financial legislation if they had not been leaked to WikiLeaks. This discussion would probably not take place here at the General Assembly if this information had not been submitted to a informant, if someone had not dared continue to share this information. We were going to be totally blind here or else. It is very important to keep that in mind. If this had not been made, it would not have been to make a decision now to make suggestions on personal development and further intervention in the public sector, saying all that is involved in health and other matters to be heard under the Kingdom. I don't think we can just skate by it. Of course, people are worried about such serious attempts as observed in the first leak, i.e. An attempt to bring back everything as it was for the big funding plant in Europe and the United States 2008, which we truly felt. The seriousness of our discussion and conversation must not be minimized. All data, the details of this agreement are under confidentiality until five years after the contract is concluded. I think it's serious, and I'd like us to do more for opening up our contracts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u35	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion. Thank you very much. Minister for his answers, and I must say that I am very pleased with his emphasis on this matter. However, I disagree with him that we have something to discuss. I disagree with him that the process was open and beneficial. I want to look at it globally, and I now refer to the declarations received from Brussels, such as from the European Public Service Union, from the PIS, Public Service International, with 20 million public services within the tables that protest these contracts, and particularly the immorality in them, that we, these states of the world, 50 countries, 28 European states that negotiate alone and naturalities, are not discussed at the National Parliaments rather than the previous day, and then 22 additional states, these countries, are together to go behind the others. The idea is to put them against a wall with an object. In fact, it is in the highest report. Secretary of state from March last year. It says that Member States of the International Business Organization are hoping to become members of the TiSA agreements at the end of their discussion. Why are they not allowed to be involved in these treaties? They ran in 2005 because of opposition from the poor countries, I mention India and Brazil, because of opposition from the labor movement, from various organizations, 270 organizations published a statement warning against these agreements. That's why I don't think we belong at this bargaining table. I think it's immoral to sit there. Let us not forget that these are irreversible commitments that we are making and that include breaking up institutions. There should not be a private basis for specific basic aspects of health care, according to the highest standards. Minister. [[The president calls.]] But what about the cleaning of the hospital? What about the administrations at the hospital? It will all be private, as it happened with the European Commission Service Directive. That's the thought, i.e. breaking up the system and opening up the international funding pathway there, which is what poor countries and the labor movement in the world resist and want to resist. We're supposed to be on their side. [[The president calls.]] That's why we're supposed to get out of these talks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u36	A respectable president. I thank you for this fine discussion, and I restate my desire to discuss the matter later, if necessary. I want to reiterate once again that there is no secret about what Iceland is doing, about what it is about Iceland and what we're negotiating about, our goals. There is no secret about the data we are offering and such. That certainly is a secret, for certain countries have chosen not to publish what they say. I agree with what. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir that I think it's right to encourage other countries who come to use the same methodology as Iceland, to publish what's set on the table and what is being negotiated by those countries. It is important for us to participate in talks such as these in our own eyes, since Iceland and I are living in one way or another, including having access to a service trade. If we sell e.g. Some tools and tools abroad we also want to be able to provide the services that companies need for them. This is of great importance regarding travel services, for example, that our company can continue to care for travel services defined as service transactions. It's these things that really matter. Hv. A senator asked me before about an underdeveloped state, and I didn't answer it in the first speech, but I think it's a good idea to look at such countries as Iceland's access and the result will be the TiSA speech. I know, and it's been shown that the United States is wondering about the same things, i.e. to offer underdeveloped countries the same access to service contracts as will be agreed in TiSA. It's all speculation today, but I'm prepared to carry on with Iceland only. I would've liked to be able to establish other factors. I just want to reiterate that we're going to have a meeting with the Foreign Affairs and we're going to continue to publish everything that concerns Iceland on these topics.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u37	V.E.G. President. I would like to begin my case by sincerely rejoicing that projects are about to begin building a land hospital. It's not later, and I'll repeat my joy that it's about to begin. Now it's so great. Healthcare Minister has entrusted the management of the new Land Hospital, or the legislator responsible for this preparation, preparations for the discharge of the completed section of the Land Hospital treatments, and there is an appointment to build a new hospital hotel. I'd like to get more information about whether there is a timely programme for building a home hospital, so everyone knows, whether it's in this country, politicians or health care professionals, what's coming and what the plan is. Second, I would like to ask if there is a plan for the funding of the structure. It has amazed me that a minister considers it to be the most profitable thing to finance the building of the empire's property. The estimated cost of construction is over 50 billion. This is about the amount of money that went to reduce debt by 30% of the country's largest homes, received 51 billion in the large transfer, the highest income home. This is also remarkable, considering that the government does not feel the need to impose a wealth tax, while 5% of Iceland's population owns 30% of total property, so it may pay a small amount of property tax. During this season, the fishing costs have been reduced and the cost of extra tax was reduced for tourists and the price was taken away. I'm going to this reading here because over the last two years have shown us that the government was not afraid to reduce the expenses of a number of people who could have carried them completely, and as a result, I feel that it is a mistake to ensure that a proper modern health system has to sell the property of a government fund. I wanted to know if there was a budget for the building up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u38	A respectable president. Hv. A senator pointed to me two questions, whether or not there are a time - set schedule for building a home hospital, either with a plan for building up the building. There is a scheduled schedule for the construction of the Land Hospital on Ring Road, and this is a plan as directors and directors of the New Land Hospital, etc. has done. That plan covers eight years of age and covers the course of 2015◯22022. The first phase design for buildings is complete. At the 143th legislature, the General Assembly agreed to agree that the Council decided to assign the government to its completion as soon as possible to prepare for the renewal and construction of a land hospital and to begin when funding had been ensured. It is good to tell you that at this year's budget, the World Council agreed to provide 945 billion. K. to build up the National Hospital and I have hidden Newm Land Hospital ohhf. Starting the signaling of the complete design of the treatment core, completing the complete design of the sick hotel and offering work on the sick mantel and property and its building. Work in the completed care of the sick hotel, and within a few weeks, construction committees will be ready. Is It Wrong to Change the Law on the New Land Hospital, No. On March 28, 2013, on three issues, 64/2010 approved. First of all; the purpose and purpose of New Land Hospital ohhf. is to meet the necessary preparation for the construction of a new Hospital on the Ring Road. Second, regarding the complete design, construction, and discharge of the new hospital, there should be a law on the order of public projects, No. 84/2001. Third, a minister is allowed to decide that the specifics of my building parts, or buildings, have been made available in the form of long - term rents. For this reason it is under the law of public construction, No. 84/2001, that the continued complete design and development of the project should be in accordance with the financial qualifications determined by the General Assembly on a judicial basis. It's irreverent. In addition, the government declaration, which was made with the highest medical authority in the wake of a collective contract in January, suggests that the facility will be added to the hospital by building a new hospital and a renewal of equipment. I strongly believe that this work should be carried out, but as I could in the past, the progress depends on the financial contributions that the Council decides on the project at any given time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u39	V.E.G. President. Well, I'm glad we're getting into the Senate resolution process, like the Supreme Court. Minister mentioned, since March 2013. I'm glad that the doctor's collective agreements have been established to bring the hospital's renewal and construction to its final stage. I am happy that we have a timed plan, and of course we have to follow through on it. It was observed in the case of an apocalyptic that there could really be many ways to finance this project so that it should not be done either. How important it was when the decision to accept the synopsis was accepted at the time that a solid agreement on the matter was reached at the council, which caused the matter to go on. There is now another council proposal to form a backgroup with six members of Congress on such a project to keep the case in the common direction of all political parties. [[The president calls.]] I challenge the highest. Minister to promote the agreement that this proposal will be agreed with us to ensure the safety of the case without any disagreement in the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u40	Madam President. Of course, it is happy that the construction of a new Land Hospital has returned after a couple of years of hiccups. In terms of funding, it can be noted that the matter is more than one committee, one of the Parliamentary decrees for a group of members, and one of income stocks to sustain this project. I'm thinking that we shouldn't discuss it in the context of our poverty that we have to sell family silver so we can build a new hospital. In this regard, it can be noted that the bank's income alone last year and this year up to less than 44 billion is similar money and costs to build the therapeutic core, so that such money and, although less than one or two more years, should be sufficient for the project. That's way beyond the terms of the budget for both trades, last year and year. Thus, it is not such a forced journey that humans have wanted to be abandoned. Finally, I noticed that an invitation to the complete design of the treatment core is made in part, not as a standard public service. [[The president calls.]] I thought that, in accordance with local law, this part should, of course, be put out of the community and then be working on it as a standard public service. Or is it not so, as though it were the highest. Does a minister testify that there is a law that the core of the procedure should be built as a public act? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u41	Madam President. How happy we are that this is a moving issue! I believe that I am the first and last to thank the Allied Parliament, who has been awake and asleep in this matter. As you can remember, at the top of the world, you felt that you had a considerable lack of will. A government to do this when it took its first step in this matter. Happily, she was moved by a discussion at the council. There's a strategy now, and it's like the highest. One minister said: Depending on what the General Assembly will accomplish. I'm now sincerely asking, Madam President, do you really need to make this case more bitter? We know that at the same time as the complete agreement is being carried out at the Allied Parliament, there is conflict as to the way to finance. I say for myself that I want a lot of work to include everyone in that expedition, so I ask like a whale. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon: Is there any other way that humans can do this than link it to the Lands Bank sale, as we have seen? If they want to sell the Lands Bank, they'll only put on a special expedition for it. [[The president calls.]] But let us do this another way, and as noted earlier, we discussed the matter last year: We see that only the profits made by banks are far more than expected. [[The president calls.]] Why don't we use it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u42	Madam President. I appreciate the excellent discussion we've had here. I missed doing the highest. One minister did not really answer my question, considering a plan on funding the structure. He has mentioned property sales in interviews and is easily heard by members of the council here who have spoken of falling on rocky soil, as there is enough money to build up the hospital if it is wanted to be arranged first in the political priorities. Here you name both of them. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodin son's money from the Bank, which is a large amount of money. Government funds are increasing because we are recovering from the severe economic depression created by the collapse of the financial system and its currency. So there is room to find the money needed to do the work. I don't belittle it because it's a major project, so it's a great project, but in the eight years it's scheduled for the project, and this year it takes over nearly a billion, there are not very many billions of dollars a year to be made up of the income of a government fund in this project. But the benefits are undisputed, and there is no need to create an argument about selling property in connection with this important project. I'd like to finally ask the highest. Minister in the spirit of that which is swift. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannesson asked: Is it not appropriate that a health committee introduces a parapolitic committee that is involved in the financing of ministers? This procedure must be implemented into the long-term budget of the state's budget so that it can be expected annually.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u43	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion on this big, big deal. In the beginning of this case, I'd like to say that there was some hesitation in the operation of the government of Sigmundur, Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, the son of Gunnul. According to members of Congress, the 2013 budget was not available for this project, so the space for implementing projects in this field was not now enlarged, at least not for the first half of the year of this government. But then in 2014, the first direct budget came in, into budgets that year, up to 100 billion. As a result, I started the job and started the preparation to the hospital, which then enters the 2015 budget. I'd like to remind the council that according to the strategy available at the New Land Hospital, etc. is not so heavy in the funding of the project during the first few years, in their eight - year plan. The years 2018, 2018, are the weightiest, reminds me, over 10 billion, if I remember correctly. It may be at the time when the result of a government fund could not allow a year's total funding to go out there. And that's in connection with what I've said publicly that at such times we could discuss possible property sales, but there's nothing in that subject, not at all. It's only a matter of fact, but I think that, on the basis of planning long-term projects, the budgetary committee is the transboundary field where the council has directed its approach to loading money into this need for work. They have all their classes, and they also put things in context for a long time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u44	Madam President. I have a question for the highest level. Health Minister for rehabilitation services for the elderly who live at home. Last week there was a special discussion about nursing homes where the advising language was a cause. paritaprevir Helgi, that's what I'm Hjörvar about. There is another smell of that discussion. The motivation, in effect, was that a contract with the highest degree of rehabilitation was not renewed for the elderly who live at home. I am not a special advocate of that nursing home, especially if it is a fine nursing home and is widely used. These include 20 different spaces that have been used for people living at home to extend the time they can maintain a home for themselves. People can come in here temporarily to receive training and help in order not to have to move into a nursing home. It is especially important to consider this in the capital area because there is a great shortage of nurses, patients who come in are heavier, and the average time in general is shorter. So there is a great need for rehabilitation for those living at home. Why wasn't the deal renewed? And at the same time, which is really a more important question: Is it to reduce the permanent rehabilitation of this service or to look at a minister of something else? Then I wanted to know who's headed the highest. A health minister and the government would be about rehabilitation services for the elderly living at home. Everyone agrees that it is best, except that it is inexpensive to live at home. I think we can all suggest that we would like to stay in our home as long as possible apart from exceptional circumstances, that people find it difficult to do so. The number of elderly ones - especially those over 80 years of age - is now increasing - as is the main group that enters the health system. So it is very important to know what the policy is regarding this rehabilitation service and to ensure that it is not being detracted but, on the contrary, increasing it in order to achieve the goal of having people live at home instead of having to go into a permanent nursing home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u45	A respectable president. With regard to the agreement to Hrafjörn on rehabilitation, there was a lot and a great will at the Ministry to renew it. It was a dual; it was a short term with rehabilitation, 20 space, and then a day with rehabilitation of 30 spaces. Hence, the Ministry's staff agreed to negotiate with Höfnynum with the main objective of renewing both aspects of the contract and securing the continuation of this service. In connection with that work, the ministry was assessed by the Ministry's staff and received a special assessment and interviews with professionals most likely to find resources for the elderly. However, the members of the Ministry and Hrafni met at several meetings where an agreement was attempted. Despite the good intentions of both parties, it did not go beyond that and did not reach an agreement. Two factors interfered with a short-term rehabilitation agreement, i.e. This 20 space: First of all, the Ministry's conversations and the demand that it was very difficult to achieve the full use of space, especially for those with the best use of the service. Second, the representatives of Hrafnyst and the nursing home felt that the nursing home needed up to a 30% rise in their daily expenses for this space to continue the business. This would have meant more than 70 billion. K. the cost of a day's expenses as a result of this rise. The Ministry could not agree with that, since there was no budget for that increase, and the Frenchist was not interested in continuing his business unchanged. In this context, however, it is proper to note that the contract of 30 day - apart with rehabilitation for the elderly was renewed and continued to be fired by the Most High. When asked whether there is a permanent reduction in this service, it is clear that the rehabilitation process can be of great importance to maintain the health and skills of the elderly, which is vital to the success and attention of older ones. So there is no interest in minimizing that service, either with me or with the Ministry. The Ministry is looking for and will look for any means to ensure that the budget that previously went into that 20 space will remain in service to the elderly in good cooperation with Hoffst, as well as with other nursing homes. My orders are to pay particular attention to how this funds can be used effectively in rehabilitation for the elderly. It is also a joy to relate that last year, at the Brooklyn Home Service, which is based on a multi-payed project taught by Frederica, Denmark. The task involves looking for rehabilitation and prevention in the home, with active participation in the elderly rather than regular service. True, rehabilitation can be the key to improving the quality of life and giving the older ones more content. It can also make a big difference in supporting older people to their own homes, but like a whale. For a long time, a senator knows that the government's policy is that people live at home as long as possible. As a result, we will work at the Ministry that there will be rehabilitation available for the elderly and that it will be increased rather than being reduced within the provisional funds. In the end, I'd like to mention that I was coming down from a city cell where Reykjavíkurburg was taking in an additional form of brain failure in cooperation with Eir. The city's 18 - day resort was opened, and it is a great addition to its fine service.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u46	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. He said that the Ministry is looking for ways to take advantage of the funds that previously went into that 20 space for rehabilitation, and he also mentioned testing projects on rehabilitation, where the rehabilitation services come to people's home. Is the policy of extending this experiment or of depositing it? Here, in the capital area, it is extremely urgent, as well as in other areas. Perhaps it would be possible to consider where the list of waitings remains and place that amount of money in it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister again about policy. Now, a large increase is predictable that work must be done systematically to make the rehabilitation a key factor in the service of the oldest group still living at home, that is very important. The rehabilitation process enables people to live a longer life of self - control, and it can also help them to maintain skills. So it is very important to take this class of action. Is that a course or a course to shape such a course?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u47	A respectable president. It is true that there is a great need for medical care in the capital area. Last year, there were 295 people on a waiting list for a living in the country. Of course, the average waiting period depends on the local body weight of the nursing staff. It is heavy in nursing homes in the capital area, which means that there is a shorter waiting period for space, but the whole country has an average time for those entering the home about 82 days. Outside the capital area, however, there is a longer waiting period, suggesting that the body weight of the nursing area is less than here. The need for this aspect, rehabilitation, services to the elderly is definitely full, especially to strengthen our own dwelling place. In my first speech, I said that my policy is to increase them rather than reduce them. There is no other policy but that this is just part of the service offer offered by the elderly, whether within a nursing home or at home, in connection with the agreement between Reykjavíkurburg and the Ministry on Home Service and Social Affairs, its integration. When asked how to use the money that would have worked for that 20 space, it is simply that the Ministry's employees are looking for ways to get them to work in behalf of the elderly, since this is not in themselves a very large amount of space available for this service. [[The president calls.]] All I can promise you is that these funds will be used for the benefit of the elderly. That's clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u48	Madam President. For many years, the centre of a medical flight has regular aircraft, i.e. not helicopters, stay in Akureyri. It is a government policy and has been carried out and tested in this way. This case has become permanent and has led, among other things, to the fact that Akureyri has built up a lot of knowledge from pilots, hospital workers, and doctors at the Akureyri Hospital, who are involved in the hospital after an incident. This arrangement has certainly led to a much more progressive, better ministry, and more secure than we have ever lived. I don't think so. In recent years, it has been a fine arrangement for the flying aircraft of the Air Administration I've been able to call, but I'm sure it's Isavia today that's been the service from Akureyri. As a result, the plane has been a major component of the year and/or a very close call to the health care providers. This means a lot. Thereby, safety is enhanced, or the supply system is available, or there is a call to those who take care of the patient's plane. This can also lead to better management and time - management and service on the main aircraft or the reserve engine so that adequate safety is always present and at least two machines are available. This is similar in many ways to the status of the rescue helicopters, they have to have a minimum of three, preferably four, so that in an reasonably clear manner, there are always two flights that can be guaranteed. It is hoped, then, that you will be surprised when news of an official stock society, Istavia, suddenly snaps your feet away from this wonderful arrangement and decides to move your machine to the south. Thus, the additive effects that have been present in this area are lost in Akureyri. So I've allowed myself to ask the highest. A minister may have been informed about this, or she will examine this sudden decision, and secondly, and closely related, whether the transport and health authorities have studied together how this affects the safety of the patient and the ability to sustain it as well as sufficiently as in recent times. May I remind you that the medical flight is not only an emergency transport in the presence of life but also a patient transport. Since we serve part - time Greenland and get to the patients, there are sometimes a very long journey away from the country, and therefore it is important to have reserve ability. Finally, I've allowed it to follow along, even though it's not a big issue in this context that it's losing one two, three jobs from Akureyri. There's a sign of a leak that a person likes to discuss in the community, a person is preoccupied with the big picture when a business is to move out into the country or to leave the country, and then it is leaked at individual jobs like this, resulting from the decision of this public community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u49	A respectable president. Like what? The proselytism referred to a plane called Istavia, which was rented to Mybets and has led a medical flight. Actually, it is strict, so according to the contract, she was located in Reykjavík the whole time, although in the real world she was the most in Akureyri. I want to show that the deal was made that way. I was not aware or informed by the Ministry of Justice, but it was known of the Ministry and its viewpoints. You should remember that the company's extensive aircraft was designed to test flights on the U.S. fliers. At the same time, there is a contract on the same project in Greenland as in the Faeroe Islands. Since the plane was not fully used on the above project, it was rented to Myys, leading to an assignment that expected a five - year tenet with an extension of two years for two years. The treaty has run its course now after the full use of sources for extensions. I want to make it clear, more dignified President, that I feel like a dog. The leader is deeply concerned that all the land is secure by a medical flight. This is true not only in the north but also in the way that there is a payment for access to the medical institutions in Reykjavík. Air tests that deal with this particular project are used for highly specific and expensive equipment. It is now a matter of service abroad. A favorable agreement has been offered on the basis of such projects that will be used to cover the cost of the hardware and the operating of the machine. Therefore, Istavia is no longer needed for renting, so it will be used mainly in flying projects. In addition, every time a flight test project was completed, it has been quite unattractable and risky to remove sensitive and expensive equipment from the plane, so that the plane could be used to obtain a medical flight. Thus, according to experience with the Mybet agreement, Istavia had a substantial cost of rent. The Society now handles the machine itself, but made a deal with Iceland's National Relations for the Management and Maintenance as done in 1975/2007. The question is, Has the government evaluated the impact of Istavia's decision on the safety of medical flights and the ability of pilots to handle it sufficiently in the light of a declared hospital flight centre. The decision, in the opinion of the Ministry, does not affect the condition of a medical flight. Again and again, I want to stress that it is my opinion and emphasis that the importance of hospital flight security is secure and that it must be ensured. Whether governments intend to take action because of lost jobs remains the same. The answer is that Istavia is an official airline responsible for the management of airports and air travel services. The role of the company is to ensure that airport service and flying history are in line with established security requirements and methods. The Society makes decisions about investments and businesses on the basis of practical and business practices. In this regard, as with other activities, there have been significant increases in the financial resources of the Society during the past few years. As we know of the news, I said, the same kind of machine that is located in Akureyri has been rented, so we appreciate it, at least. on time, the same need for maintenance of the aircraft due to the patient's plane should be negligible. But for this reason, I think that we have to be careful whenever we're talking about jobs, that one job is important, two jobs are important, I can totally share that with you. A senator, but at the time of this procedure, I was told that it should have little effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u50	Madam President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. They were informative. If that is true of material reasons, such as the increase in flying tests and the cost of using the machine to work on other projects is not worth any material reasoning that one makes valid. I'm not going to question it. I also know that, of course, people will fulfill the arrangement on the basis of an invitation, making sure that the security limits there are respected. Since I know something about the way it is in praxis, I know that additional insurance on a machine of the same kind, because this is a Beechum King Air Machine, like those used in the hospital flight, or Super King, is always improving. It's quite clear, so I don't back it up that there's a certain regret that if this fine arrangement can't be permanent, it can't be done. So again, the importance of maintaining a good pace with this medical flight I think is unspoken. Visits to health institutions, especially in the most remote parts of the southwestern corner, and these are now the best in the north and east, outside the West, and perhaps the Western Islands, are important. Everyone concludes with a compliment about the importance of having this service secure, that her people, that these are specialised machines, and that we never need to return to the old time when they used small, discrepancies between them in normal passenger transport with seats, etc. Akureyri is highly superior as a location simply because it leads to the north and east of the country where most of the flights come from, and then it is at the town door at the special hospital in the country where a considerable amount of this medical flight goes to its final station. On account of myself, I rejoice at the highest. A fellow minister is a firm advocate of continuing to do this in the same way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u51	V.E.G. President. I view it as a sign of the importance of Akureyri in this regard that although the machine was supposed to live in Reykjavík, it was more and less in Akureyri. That's what it's all about. I think it's the government's job to ensure that the patient flight is in the best place and that the safety is number one, two and three. This is certainly true in this particular case. We believe that putting it in this way is guaranteed. Thank you. Because we need to keep an eye on this matter. We also need to be aware of this whole thing, and then I'm talking about how important it is for the scattered communities that it is also safe for patients to get to Reykjavík for the services they need. That end must also be in order. In my mind, it is very important that we view the whole flight as a unit, take good care of it, and I can certainly agree with that. A senator in that we do not want to go back to the ancients in the way we bring patients. It can also be noted that the development of the health system in the country where the specialisation is more important in moving south supports the need to maintain a very safe, stable approach to health. It is very strongly my opinion that as soon as people make such decisions, they need to watch their whole flow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u52	A respectable president. I want to direct you to the highest level. In particular, the Minister of Ministers on matters relating to terms of debt debt and especially whether it is considered to change the rules that a minister has the authority to change by Regulation in order to ensure that the investment of rural society due to the purchase of social apartments is not considered to be a commitment to the debtable authority of rural society. The reason I ask this question is the fact that housing matters are among the legal activities of rural society, however, would still be the result of buying the community of social apartments into the overall debt of the member of the community. In some of the rural areas around us - this is a serious problem because our rural communities cannot add social flats even though they feel that they have material evidence because of paying more money in debt. However, apartments that are interested in buying are free-of-the-marked and relatively safe property, which is why they are inexpensive and inexpensive. Therefore, I would like to ask, " Is it not a matter of principle in the conditions now in an apartment market that allow this space to be cleared so that our rural communities will be more comfortable meeting the much demand of social housing? ' There is, of course, a specific space here, although I, as a social minister, have been set up a bill that authorized the financial loans of rural society to lend 100% of the payments in nursing homes, which the state since reimbursed the rural communities in 40 years, a change was made that allowed the commitments not to count into the debt of the rural communities involved. In that case, though, there is service to elderly persons who are not among legal activities of rural society and, of course, property that may be reluctant to serve as a nursing home, but some social apartments. So I would like to ask, in view of the nature of my investment - apartments in the capital area are generally seen inexpensive, and there is a great and urgent need for waiting, a rich will is available for that, e.g. in the two towns I've mentioned, Kópavogi and Hafnarfjörður, to do better in this regard - isn't it the only one to raise this roof to make further investments possible in this respect?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u53	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason years for requesting viewpoints on these matters, i.e. Whether or not to review the rules on the debt of the local community. First, I want to know that the financial rules set up in rural law since 2012 have already proved their value. They were products of good cooperation between state and rural society, with the goal of improving the financial management of rural society and ensuring an even superior level of sustainable development in rural society. I think that worked out very well. I think it may be said that although rural communities have thus been set as a distinct framework for business and their financial affairs, there is still considerable scope for their activities, at least in comparison with many other countries that we compare with ourselves. It is important, in fact, because this is a constitution of the administrative rights of the local community, although the nature of a matter is needed for further consideration in a special law. The law says that the rural communities will owe no more than 150% of their earnings to financial communities. In 2012, at the hearing of the law, 21 rural society that did not meet the obligation, the Hafnarfjörður shop is one of them -- no, pardoned, one of those 11 who are now working for a special lead-in programme for management and a fall in debt. There's a Hafnarfjörður wedding place, I misspoken myself there, but plans assume that by the end of 2018, seven rural communities will still have to work on a adaptation plan until the end of 2022, so to Refect, this is a complex situation. There is the scope for the cost - making process little or nothing for the next few years, and Kopavogstown falls there, and, of course, Smokeystown too, as we know it. Therefore, discussions over the investment of rural society in housing because of their housing practices have taken some into account that these rural communities are having difficulty overdue because of a debt-depth agreement. About a question why. There is no such recommendation at this point. In general, I think we should be very careful about moving to those of the current law, i.e. To act out the principle, to change principles. I don't particularly think that it will. But if we are to move things around, there must be a very rich agreement between the State and the local community. Then it is important that changes do not lead to some threat to financial success in recent years, which was the only problem with the laws that were to be reformed by the current law. However, I would like to say that this does not mean that there are no possible means to be seen by investments in rural areas that overdevelop the debt of the individual community's plans and how such investments would affect the short and long - term financial situation of the local community. I'm stressing that in such cases, we need to examine each case individually, i.e. The principle is available, but there is a single case that needs to be considered. If there's a sound base for such compromises, and there's, of course, the Department of Internal Affairs and Home Office on the other side of the table, then I think it's more reasonable to treat these differences from the local government laws, e.g. with temporary temporary temporary temporary measures that will be taken into account in terms of the development of financial interests, economic gains, and the expected long-term benefits. There would be some evaluations at any particular stage. Then we will have an arrangement in the county government agreements and the Ministers on financial matters at 83rd. rural law, as we know, might be developed a law on the basis of the need for temporary action done by the state and rural areas as a result of structural services or investments in infrastructure as well as the short-term sustainable development of rural society. To me, that's what it's all about. We have a fundamental reason for caution, and we feel that we have achieved the changes we have already made. But I think there is a reason, if you believe, that each case for itself will be considered, not in changing debt to the whole line.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u54	A respectable president. I'd like to be a part of the discussion, considering that we're on a budget to cover a new government bill. I would like to hear the minister's attitude toward what was presented in the case of the Supreme Court. Minister, that the rule of 150% criteria and the new government laws have worked pretty well. In the Community review of this bill, i.e. 7. especially in the rest, they feel that it is dangerous to change the scale as expected. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister whether she has studied to figure out that he is willing to further reduce the debt balance of his community and that they go under 45% of the criteria that the state or the State or the A-part of the country and rural society do in common, and have criticized and in fact, do not consider them to be able to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u55	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the answer, but I was very disappointed in that. Actually, I totally understand the highest position. Ministers not to put a general rule in this regard, but must be careful to point out that there is a variation in investments, e.g. at such costs as the construction of elementary schools or other important community projects, which also play legal roles in rural society, but produce no income in return, and then purchase social facilities that are rented out and are expected to return that income. As a result, social apartments are entirely subject to the fact that they can be sold, but the schools will not be sold in any other way. Thus, there is not necessarily a matter of everything or nothing in this case; commitments in this respect can also be thought to a half - or some degree contrary to debt. I noticed that the highest. A minister also spoke of the only way to evaluate the plans of a unit in this respect. But I am worried, if I heard it correctly, that there is no request for any change in this part of the Ministry. I would have thought this was one of the first things the Minister of Homekeeping would have had to do in reviewing the housing laws and adjustment there to improve the provision of social housing. I'd like to reiterate it if it's the highest. A minister is prepared to visualize some general rule that the rural communities can take and will be developed. It may well be better to do it as high as possible. A minister says, not with a change of the law, but there is some general reference that will make them proportional to the extent of commitments such as those to the debt but not entirely.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u56	A respectable president. First, because of the comments that came from what happened. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. I haven't seen this story from a Union member and I can't express myself about it. Of course, what humans are dealing with is increasing the discipline of both government and financial teams. It is on the basis of which this financial bill is presented. I am personally a great spokesman for increasing the discipline in public financial matters. I think we must basically agree that it's done, so that's the question of staging it. I don't know what to say. paritaprevir Páll the Year's Árnason, and first of all, the work at the Ministry of Health is doing. I guess the Ministry of Internal Affairs will be at some point in the case of someone in regard to the legal procedures under our Ministry. But I just don't trust myself to say that, as a respected president, it was such a matter to state that there should be a general rule, as it were. A senator mentions. I don't trust myself to do that. My basic stand is that here we are talking about principles, and we need to agree on what they are meant to be so that the financial situation of rural society is guaranteed and the future of the people there. That's why I mentioned in my answer that I think it's better that we take each case individually. I have no confidence that I would begin measuring to do so right now to go further in that material. Of course, we're watching a large community. A rural society in Hafnarfjörður is a very large rural society in this particular problem. We've mentioned here Kopavogstown and Smokeynesville. In some way, we need to build the line that both of them can grow and thrive, but at the same time, we have to deal with the debt that faces them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u57	V.E.G. President. As the president has said, I have allowed myself to ask a question to the highest level. Secretary of the Interior to the optic armor. So I get the questions right away, that's the first question: ▪ What rules apply to the distribution of funds from communal funds to fellow rural teams to provide fiber optics? - I call attention to the wording "to the rural community" to put a fiber optics to show you how. Second, I ask: ▪ Is there a danger of getting the support of a telecommunication fund or State on that project? I just want to explain why I ask these questions. Many local governments have discussed with us members of the Parliament what they are doing, have done, and are about to do. One of the rural communities is the United States of Germany, which has made design and estimate the cost of optic cables - some 300 billion. Well, it's about 300 miles to park. Civil authorities have been wondering how to finance this, have had a meeting here in the South, including the alcoves and the services fund and the services fund. Then they talk to companies who are ready to contribute and run this, and they always stay behind, and so much money that the community needs to make for themselves. All right. What has to do with this country's community, the country's country and local authorities, is that they are a little afraid to get out of their way, and that, as planned, they can burn bridges and that the cost of telecommunications funds will be shut down. that money does not come from the telecommunications fund to that task. I call attention to a respected president who recently advertised the State Buy, on behalf of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, a request for a fibre optic ring connection in Snæfells. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ Secretary of State has entrusted the telecommunication fund with the need to strengthen the project. - i.e. if nobody wants to do this on market grounds. There's no one here who wants to do this on market grounds, and that's why the country government, which is very forward, is looking at this matter. Let us bear in mind what this is like in the country of Germany; flourishing agriculture; much educational society; fish industry; forestry; transport services; food production; etc. and it's a rush to do this. Tourism, for example, is not competitive if it does not offer high - speed connections just the way it is today. That's why I'm putting this question to the highest level. Minister of state: I have established rules for spending that money and how to meet a community like what I've done for a discussion, i.e. Senators, who wants to go as soon as possible, but waiting for government answers, will be waiting for an answer. 300 million. K. This year's budget was set up in a telecommunication fund, how to use money, how will the Minister of the Interior come to meet such rural communities as the House of Germany?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u58	V.E.G. President. This is an important topic for discussion, and all of us agree that good and reliable communication is of great importance to job structure and development without regard to location. I want to use this opportunity, and I want to reiterate the importance of the whole project. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing the radio on the program today. For telecommunications funds, the role of the fund is set up in Article 2. track No. 132/2005, which says that the fund's role is to assign funding to projects aimed at building up communication systems, projects that contribute to the security and competitiveness of society in the field of communication and other projects, as these are laid down in a communication program, and can be expected not to attack the market. I hardly need to read these laws at all. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller, so he knows everything about the jury. The fund's work has been mainly national tender tenders, since telecommunication companies have competed for the building of telecommunications timbers and after reports of communications services in which markets would not be able to support such structure and management on market grounds. In addition, in a number of cases, the sea has provided a source of funds in the building of telecommunications in cooperation with the Emergency Line on the same grounds that the market has not been able to attack the project without national progress. All of these activities are consistent with the fact that local administrative boundaries have not been considered to be the decision to distribute funds from the fund. The telecommunication fund has thus not strengthened the selective structure of fiber - optic systems by individual communities. Other issues have been considered to be more urgent and particularly focused on areas and places where there was no communication to distribute, regions or places where communication, such as in the vicinity of fire stations, is considered to be more efficient, rather than on improving the communications of those living in a remote network service, although it is not comparable to what happens in general urban areas. Like what? A senator mentioned a telecommunication fund of 300 million. K. in 2015. Notes such funding mention several defined tasks that were also found in a communication program 2010◯2014, as well as other undefined resources for which these funds are to contribute. Direct concentrations to the rural community are not specifically addressed, although at the end are referred to as the structure of fiber optics, which includes the development of framing settlements. The staff of the appointed Minister of State are now working on the proposal to change communications from international services. The task force is also involved in the analysis and proposals of infrastructure and, in particular, rural light - opticization across the country. The proposals of the work group will address different means of organizing and implementing such structure outside the market. The aims of further building will be set out in a communication program along with the means to promote the objectives and that the suggestions of the above groups will be used as part of a communication program. When it is asked whether there is a danger that rural society that has completed or is about to become a photoengineering system is not supported by a telecommunications fund, then there are some aspects to which we know it. First, the fund has not been available for reimbursement of budgets that have not in advance received the government's approval for voting and that have been considered by the established rules. Second, the local telecommunication system's own design has not been a topic of communication funds. Third, it is clear that the basic prerequisite for any expense of the fund and the State in photoengineering projects, including local fiber - optics, is being followed by government strength or rules. Such a reward would always have to be fulfilled. At this point, no decisions have been made regarding the financial contributions made to the rural community. Finally, I would like to repeat the importance of the service group I mentioned earlier because I believe or hope that this work means that we can, as a result, go into a major development of international communication services and throughout the country, I'd like to say. Especially with the view that it is so important when we look into a job area that we watch the whole of Iceland and when we talk about jobs without a location and transport to the country, etc. is an enormous figure that the settlements in this country have the connections that are useful for that purpose. That's why I have high hopes for the work that is going on with this group, and I'm going to get a presentation in every single day in the next few days. I look forward to sharing with the U.S. Congress how we can then do the extensive task of communication.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u59	V.E.G. President. I thank the Minister for his excellent responses and a verbal vendetta for bringing this important matter into the program. In general, the status of communication is good in the country, but it is extremely sensitive, and there are many areas in which there is a lack of acceptable conditions in these matters, despite many of the projects being carried out. I'd like to be happy that this team has won, and I can't wait to continue working on it. This supports the government's policy that we build this country as a whole. We're talking about jobs without a location. This will strengthen national settlements and change and improve habitat conditions, we need to talk about the country as a whole. This, I would like to say, is one of the largest cohesive issues and the basis for all employment development and building up into the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u60	A respectable president. I thank you for the leader. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, for bringing up voices and communications in general. I can make him happy, since Thursday, March 5, is the final meeting for a group of members appointed by the Minister of the Interior. The main motion of the group - in which I am, I had the privilege of working on this important matter - will be very revolutionary. It suggests that access to high-speed network connections must be defined as a basic service for all citizens of the country. Today, more than 13,000 inhabitants do not have an adequate high - speed network, but we suggest that this group have access to 100 megabit connections by 2020. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u61	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking you for this inquiry. Every day you don't celebrate the words of two cheers. parishioners who discuss matters in a row, but I'm going to do it this time, thank you for the above words. For Internet connections in the country in particular, what is often mentioned here is an enormous deal of employment. I think it's important to keep it in place that it's far more extensive than that. This is about education, this is about relationships with loved ones and friends, this is about general research, simple things in life like finding recipes on your Tube. This has to do with more and less everything that can be done in the modern world through information, and it is growing ever more in the part of life that belongs to this phenomenon, the Internet. I think it's important to keep this up, and also because it's important that these connections are good and stable because several key services such as a phone will make the difference when it comes to whether you can work a remote job over your head, participate in all your telecommunications, etc. I'm celebrating this discussion. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u62	Madam President. There was more news in the speech of each one. paritaprevir Páll the H. of Pálsson, but the chief. Minister. He clearly declared that there was a proposal to define a fiber - optic device as part of a basic service for all, including the 13 thousand who today do not have such an acceptable ministry. Speak to the highest. There was another way to get a minister. The line from the Ministry seems to be so that in the case of a selective project that the market cannot handle, the project is not stable. That's how I understood a talk. Minister. In the case of a Tingy Squad, that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller moved in here into the discussion, is a progressive local society that wants fiber optics, but no company is ready to park and fire him. In that case, the local community intends to attack the project itself, which, in effect, has already been judged by the rules and has no guarantee that they will get into the fund system and later, when there is a rule, will pay something to the cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u63	Madam President. Privateisation of the basic telecommunication network and the induction of competition into the sector were one of the most disastrous failures that have long occurred in rural areas and other aspects in this country. Of course, it is positive that funds are put aside to attack reforms in this area, but it is more likely to shape a clear framework of their treatment and introduce them to local communities. In the meantime, there is a danger of a waiting attitude, and it is already there, i.e. Companys remain in doubt as to how this is going to be, and they are afraid to risk their money with uncertainty as to what they might get reimbursed from public funds. All I can see is that the rules must be taken into account what will be done in general in the future, but also for some kind of resolution on a comparable level to those who have already attacked at high costs. Some societies have been found to have been alone and unsuspected by fiber - optic cables and paid for them themselves in a complete market failure. [[The president calls.]] This rule must be seen as soon as possible, and I also highlight its presentation so that local rulers and others such will know what they're doing as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u64	V.E.G. President. I thank the minister and the members of the council who participated in this discussion, especially for accepting appreciation for what it was. paritaprevir Páll, the son of J. Pálsson, on the background of information that is being submitted on March 5th.; revolutionary suggestions on basic services and 13 of you. someone who's out of her house and that's all over 2020. A respectable president. That's exactly what's messing up our communities today. They're 300 million. K. This year, and the proclamations of the highest. A prime minister on fiber - opticisation of Iceland made it possible for communities, some of whom are finished, to ask themselves the question at hand. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon set up earlier. The other is more serious, as I did as a panel, with the Þingalte that is about to begin, but now it's about to stop because it's waiting for a clear government rule on how it should be. This is exactly what has rocked the boat, so to speak. That's why I want to encourage the highest. The Minister of the State who conducts this group to shape clear rules as soon as possible and openly introduce them to the local communities. This must be so, then, that for the 13 of you, the campaign that was announced at the annual talk and the rest of the year. People, the message to the local community will have to be like this: Yes, you can get started, but we can't tell you exactly what year the government cost will be. But it has to come because otherwise this is the point being presented, including in the report of this staff, just to delay the situation in real life. That should be my last word to the highest. The Minister of State to shape clear rules as soon as possible, let them show the local communities and show them who will be involved in it even if rural and businesses can get started sooner and put on the job right away because it is so urgent.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u65	V.E.G. President. It is clear that it is my mission to explain the rules of communication. The question was addressed, and of course it was answered. Then it is that, like cot, it mixes. A client rightly points out, the government's plan to go into a big - scale telecommunication, of course, into this. However, it is impossible for the Minister of the Interior to declare laws that have not yet arrived. There's something that I at least don't have the brains to do, to describe suggestions I haven't seen. However, the policy of the government is clear in this respect, but we are living in a certain system of rules that was made up of the subject. I agree with that. Congress is very important that we see this country fast, and I know that rural areas are all over the country, and Iceland's citizens are anxious to get these things going. I hope that when we come up with some suggestions that we can work with, and when we see what cost this will cost and what plan might become, there is no need for us to put aside the rules that we need to take on this important project. I insist that if they succeed, there may be one of the most important interests in our country, i.e. that we can put our communications into the first place that we need to do. I want to thank you. Councilmen for them suggest this matter and encourage me. I take it back into the Ministry and into the future policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u66	V.E.G. President. As everyone knows about the beginning of the project, on a Vádlain tunnel with the first bomb, July 3, 2013. This project had been completed throughout the last terms, and thankfully, it got started at that time. Yet, as everyone knows, such developments are going on, only the backs of Eyjafjörður had fallen because of the great and hot water that was there. I have full faith that these matters will be resolved and that they will be. The only result is the construction of the tunnel for a period of about five or six months, so it will be the summer of 2017, not the fall of 2016. A respectable president. I've allowed myself to ask questions to the highest level. The Minister of the Interior Kingdom because it was always expected that so much and so much of the water coming out of the island tunnel would be used to prepare a new airport at the Akureyri Airport. It was written into the export data that the materials would be taken in the Eyjafjörður area and brought into the field. Since then, of course, a particular conflict has been going on. Isavia, who runs the field, has said: "Yes, we are ready to take over this material and put it in a new barn. We should keep in mind that the airport in front of the terminal is temporary, that's a last-minute flight, that machines must not stand so close to the runway, and therefore it is urgent to make a new flight charge. That was what lay behind us when this was put into the export data, apart from the fact that this was a means of getting rid of the water, but often and often it is the greatest problem of digging a tunnel what to do with the rush. But ever since, nothing has happened. No material has been delivered. Istavia says: We are ready to take over, but we have no money to transport it. It was always in the mind of those who were working on this case to find a solution to the situation when projects fit and put money in there to do so, that was promised. For example, I was encouraged not to make any adjustment to the 3rd districts. funded 2014 because I was assured by one minister that the situation had begun, that funding was guaranteed, and that it would just start. But as I say--nothing has happened yet. It was beginning to delay a lot for the large amount of material loaded up there on the Akureyri side and was not moved in. In the next few weeks, when there's a little more water stopped and explosion started again, hopefully this will start to come in with great force. My questions are two: What is the situation regarding transport and acceptance of materials from the Valaleh tunnel to a new airport in Akureyri Airport? And second of all: Are all the rights and funding guaranteed? That's my questions to the highest. Minister of state this time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u67	A respectable president. There is a dissociation system for the Akureyri airport where a new flight port is expected north of the current terminal. At the same time as environmental assessment for the expansion of the runway at Akureyri Airport, environmental assessment was adopted for the sound of air, but its structure has not been completed, as we know. In order to expand the airport, a total of 800 million cubic feet [00,000 cu m] of matter is needed, with an estimated total of 800 billion. K. At some level, the cost of operating has to be covered by the sound of the airport, and it will have negligible income. The main evidence for flying is that the currently sound of a flight is too close to the runway. All larger aircraft are flying from so - called obstacles in the airport organizational procedures. At the same time, a limited construction site for larger airport shelters is set up at the current airport level, allowing land for such buildings to be built in the anticipated air charge. Because, like a whale. In 2013, for example, a client noted that the construction of a Venetian tunnel would produce a lot of the right materials from the existing tunnel, Istavia and Vella Channel made a programme for the cost of receiving the material in the new flight area of about 250 million. K. More of the legal committee's in committees' list on the 3rd. Before 2015, the following events are presented: It's good for 6. will be reassigned to the secretary of finance and economics to negotiate with the Vellala-hall tunnel hf. for transporting more than 200 thousand cubic miles [200,000 cu m] of materials from a Valallian tunnel in the anticipated airport near Akureyri Airport. The article later states that 50 million people are involved. K. has been given to start work. I'll reiterate this 6. A warrant for the Ministry of Economics to negotiate. A possible way to get the project forward is that it will handle its financing for an indefinite period of time until it will be fully funded from a government fund. With a letter, dated November 21, 2013, Vadalah tunnel was offered to lend to the project for an indefinite period of time. As we know, a large part of the budget was approved. The INS is now working on a service contract with Istavia, which provides a provision for the maintenance of flying choice. It is not finished, but it is determined that the contract will be in accordance with the above and that this set of 50 million, such as the Council wanted, will be spent in preparation for a new flight charge in Akureyri. For further financial support this time is not the case, but this is the beginning. I'd like to state for this reason that in the last few years, the budget for flying has been cut out of the annual budgets well at another billion dollars. which has greatly affected the maintenance of the system. There is a growing need for maintenance, so that airports do not have to be shut down. Two o'clock. The budget bill was decided to protect 500 million. K. ... toemployingextreme at airports. It's very important, as I say, there are very important tasks there. We need to set our priorities, where that money should go. I'd like to mention here a special electrical system and light equipment, both in Húsavík and in weapons, which has become extremely urgent. In this priorities, we're looking at the Ministry. Similarly, in the United States, there are projects on the west, on the United States airport, and elsewhere, and it becomes clear that with these funds we cannot cope with all that we have to do this year. That's for sure. We must prioritize. But I think with this particular project, there's no more to say than that there's some money at this point, but it's quite known that we need a lot more money to finish it. As I mentioned at the outset, we have an approved environmental assessment. It is also equipped with a permit for implementation in Akureyri City. Then these funds are available to begin the matter, but it is obvious that to do this work would require considerable effort.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u68	V.E.G. President. I'm a little bit concerned about whether or not you'll answer the most. Ministers in such a way that this project is not expected in an upcoming transport strategy that must begin to be seen here at the General Assembly. Therefore, among other things, my question was made about whether funding was guaranteed. With respect to the environmental assessment and the implementation permit from Akureyri, I knew I was there. This was done at the same time, during the most difficult years of our economics, and the runway was extended, for quite a bit of money and was always watched along the way. But it is also true to remember that during the distance of the runway, it was very difficult to get permission to go to the chemical mines of Eyjafjörður to obtain material for the enlargement. I'm not entirely certain that if this opportunity is released - to use this material that comes out there, except that it's a very good subject - we get permission in our neighborhood to take material when this project is being carried out, and it'll also be much more expensive. That's why I have to say, just as it is, with that answer, I was disappointed. I thought a minister would say: Yes, this project is guaranteed into a prospective transport program with the money needed to deliver the material. V.E.G. According to a minister, 800 million picks all of this, but we're talking about the first action, phase 1, i.e. setting up the material needs to go down for a long time. I hope that the 50 million who came in there and 30 million over the last government went on this project would be sufficient to start this operation. A respectable president. When explosions start again on the Eyjafjörður, it is very important that the matter can be taken immediately and brought into Akureyri Airport. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u69	A respectable president. I'm also aware of the problems that are in Eyjafjörður about matter, I understand exactly what it is. A senator refers to it. Transport is still under way at the Ministry. I can't say at this moment exactly how the final outcome will be; things are still moving on in this work, like the driving. A senator knows when we're putting this together. I'm hoping that it can be submitted, I'll have to put some pressure on it to make it work, now the second part of March to the Generals. I don't think it'll get caught sooner. There are still so many free ends that it would simply be irresponsible on my part to make some statements about how these things are now in the proposal to be treated to the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u70	Is Secretary of finance a problem?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u71	It'll just have to be taken as it comes from the cow, that all of this needs to be carefully arranged. Then I'd like to just mention it here, since I have a chance to do it and what. A senator mentioned a transport plan, that the 12-year plan is also under here. I'm more concerned that I won't get it done until late this spring and then I'll have to continue with it the next fall, still too many loose ends to finish it. But we push afterwards and try to do as well as we can to prove it. I think it's very important that we start talking here about transportation at the General Assembly and priorities. I look forward to talking with what I have to say. paritaprevir Kristján Möller Muller, who has a lot to say when it comes to transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u72	A respectable president. I direct a request to the Minister of the Interior for work on legal reforms, regulations and implementation of forced care and to ask how the Ministry's work is going to improve the legal environment, regulations and conduct of forced care under law, and what's to consider on their change, but this work is now being carried out in the Ministry. The reason why I asked this was really interested in what I was discussing, and it made it very important for me to make changes when I attended a mental - health conference entitled "What Is Freedom Worth? " It discussed self - destruction, forced labor, and use of force in mental - health services. A few who have been under such forced care came to the very center of a torture stake and described their experience. In their case, this approach was found to have had very poor and long - term consequences for them and has, in fact, corrupted the patient's recovery. This was very serious to me, but I learned that the Ministry of Internal Affairs was in good collaboration with Psychias working on changing these laws and making them more professional and humane. This matter must naturally be taken into account, and in cooperation and harmony, but in my mind, force and healing never go together. According to current legislation, a person may be protected from his will in a hospital for up to 21 days without being judged. I think it's way too long. I believe that this act of liberation should immediately appear before a judge and that a patient is appointed as a jurist, as is done when a court guard is required. According to current legal regulations, a doctor may decide to force himself to suffer from such a serious mental illness that it is likely that he will get his own or others hurt. [[The president calls.]] I'm going to direct this question to the highest level. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u73	A respectable president. I thank you for recording this case, because it's a very delicate group, to say the least. As the senator knows, preparation has continued for a period of time. About a year ago, an informal meeting group of various members gave the secretary of the Internal Affairs on the possible changes to the legal law regarding the implementation of forced schools, especially this view, the problem that can also confront families because of forced bonds. It included careful terms on how the rights of the rights would be best guaranteed to the rights and actions of the law. Since then, there has been an investigation in the Ministry. At the same time, we have also considered how to correct the law in the light of the government's plans to ensure that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People can be validated. This refers to legislation that would also answer the questions raised by the State Department regarding the validation of that covenant. It is fun to tell you that the legislation for a change in law law is almost ready and will be expected to be introduced to the Department's Homepage tomorrow. I hope so, and suppose I can contribute to the Council right now at the end of this month if there's no surprise about it, but I don't see what that should be. I am delighted to inform you that the bill currently identified is found in the following elements: First, as I mentioned earlier, this change in legal requirements to prepare the validation of the United Nations Convention for the rights of disabled people. This legislation is the largest step we have to take in order to finally validate that agreement. Then there are major issues that fall under the Ministry of Health when it comes to legislation on the issues of the disabled. I know work is going on with it, and I think it's very important. The completion of that validation will be extremely difficult to accomplish. Even if you're not asking that question, I just want to use this opportunity to get it started. Second, there are changes due to a indication from the European Parliament's report. Third, and that's this important point, i.e. changes to the law of forced bonds in accordance with informal consultation groups of the State Department. That's where we're looking at the view of getting professional partners into this, of course, we're watching the community services in it. So I think it's a very important change to discuss law. Finally, change the law's decrees of law overlords, i.e. Their duty, their duty, their legal authority, and their access to the minister's office to deprive the law of law and records on the basis of the law. We know now that there is a great deal of work we need to do there, i.e. The records contained by the State Department due to this delicate group of paintings. I hope that the changes here will be presented, which, of course, are much more extensive than what I have just mentioned, will have a sound foundation for the Council and a good discussion. I also expect men to look at these suggestions carefully and to hear the viewpoint of different parties before the bill is delivered as a law from the Council. It is a law that is very important to be careful, as is true of all the laws, but this is a class of important matters. This bill is no endpoint in this discussion, for the process of reform has to continue. I suppose this development work and discussion of legal laws will continue, and further improvements may be made in future losses, especially on the basis of the implementation of the bill and the proposed changes, whether to make further adjustments when it is experienced, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u74	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The Minister of the state is very happy for these answers, and it makes my heart happy that there are more things she really presents to improve the human rights class that will be introduced at the Council in a short time, the next few days as I understood. Of course, when it comes to health care, it is a very sensitive group of paintings and very necessary for my judgment to review the standards and methods used there because of the regulations that are entirely for a child of their time and other essentials are in the current law than those mentioned in my previous speech. For example, I would like to mention the limit that today a spouse, a relative in a front leg, or a sibling may request forced care in a hospital. In my opinion, they do not have enough knowledge to make such a decision or to determine if such emergency is needed. I know this role, in fact, will go over to the social services in which the professional is present, asking for this emergency. To prevent the possible misuse of or misuse of drugs, the decision being made on a professional basis and by a professional person, I think, is quite certain. Thank you so much for your good answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-02-75.u75	A respectable president. Only because of this time frame will the bill now make a presentation on the Home Office website so that I hope to do so and assume that tomorrow, while it will be submitted only later, men will be able to study its contents, but tomorrow it will be publicized so that men will be able to examine them and think of its contents. I want to say it here, because of what. In this delicate situation, I believe that all of us know that such difficulties can make a big difference on families when they have to intervene in their immediate illness and when these measures, which, of course, are a means of emergency, can be difficult, there is a real challenge for a family to face. In my opinion, it is very important that we get the approach of those who are familiar with the case, that they come and get the resources needed to help the person who is involved, because all of this is now to help the sick return to health.
