ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u1	V.E.G. President. Now we hear that at the headquarters meeting of HB Granda, the decision was made to raise the government's salary by 33.3%. These increases bring government officials from 50 thousand to 100 thousand each month to an increase in income. These increases occur at the same time as HB Granda land workers vote for strike action where a 3.3% increase is available. The percentage increase would give you a six-and-a-half-seven point. K. for an increase of months. To date, the range has not been estimated to be more, since a greater rise, according to the sectoral organizations, could threaten stability. When you look at these comparator numbers, i.e. carrying on a 3.3% increase in pay for the workers and a decision of 33.3% to the directors, only one thought: Was the arrival taken to the wrong place, or what really happened? Is this to agree that other employees of the company are receiving the same amount of pay? Or do you not apply the same criteria for raises for workers and tops in companies? This decision has caused great and understandable anger among the company's land workers. This seems to be a lot more intense in negotiations, and it's no surprise. It may be difficult to understand why it seems acceptable to give a certain group ten times as much pay as available for other groups. Why do these increases not threaten stability in the country, but they are all going to run no more when it comes to serious increases in the lowest groups, especially in those where there seems to be a gap? I can't put my words together, and I have to quote a title to a song written by HB Granda employees for the menial struggle called Santa Claus.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u2	A respectable president. I am in the same place as the one who spoke before me and must agree with the head of the Acrexic Society of Aranesp when he criticizes this increase in the employment pay for HB Granda of 33.3%, as presented here, and offers a 3.5% raise in salary. The people who accept the salary of the HB Granda and other enterprises are often in other jobs, well paid, so this is an additive to their salary. It is no wonder that people ask themselves whether the managers of this company and many others who, in addition, pay a lot of money to their owners have no moral sense and no sense of justice toward their employees. The HB Granda executives are ashamed to treat their employees with as much contempt as they are involved in this increase in government pay at the same time that workers hardly have, and despite long hours of work. I ask, as the chairman of VA did: Didn't anyone come to the stockholder meeting in HB Granda for defense of commercial fish workers? But it is not just the Icelandic fish industry that is fighting for an increase in ignominious wages, but people in various classes that keep our society floating. I'm afraid if there's a strike, it's going to be a travel service thing. For example, for example, employees are a retailor of the 5th Work Programme and are assigned to a range of 208 and215 for the work programme. K. per month. What corruption will the government propose to prevent total kaos in society? Is it going to increase the number of bank managers and allow a higher bonus to the top of financial companies? Or what else is available for those who struggle with the lowest wage? I have to witness in the end, a respectable president, to what Hrafn Jónsson said in the reactor. However, it does not seem to matter how much of the upper - level lipids - it does not threaten stability - but as a rainy woman on Acdéri asks for more than 2.8% of her 214,000 crowns, all the plagues of Egypt will come upon us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u3	A respectable president. It was not to be expected that representatives of the Eastern government would rejoice in the announcement made by prime minister of decommissionation and a so - called stable tax that could turn in hundreds of millions of dollars. [[Up front.]] No one expected that the flags would be drawn by their partners, much less that they could celebrate an action that would normally be above political and popular pressure. The first reaction was generally about the name of the stalwart tax, and why the name would have been changed in the discussion. This, of course, calls for knowing how to separate key things from secondary things. Of course, the name of the tax is far more important than the tax, its purpose and what it will bring to us and to future generations. This is the perplexing debate that this country's government has brought to its people. However, I would like to, in a sense, to separate some of the council members from the government side, including the U.S. Chairman of the left green, huh? paritaprevir Katrín, the daughter of Jakobsdóttir, who has seen the light and accepted the need for such a tax. What the people need to ask, and the media should ask, is the current challenge of these fine government officials. What are some of the interests that some of them in recent months have repeatedly introduced into the platform, complained about a trial, and found most of them a stable or outing tax? There is good reason to consider these talks specifically, and in fact they should be printed and distributed. The country's requirement is to know the position of individual government officials to be decommissioned. This is the knowledge that must be available so that a man can make an informed decision for the next election. The answers are presented in the talks that have been transferred from that chair. A fine deputy of the Independence Party, Óli Björn Kárason, calls the reaction of the government's opposition to decommissioning a comatic drama after 52 months of inactivity of the previous government in an article in the Morning newspaper today. You can agree with that. [[The president calls.]] Óli Björn Kárason also says, on permission of President: As stated, the government's plans for execution have not been publicized, and the failure or worn - out of swellings of banks have not been made public. [[The president calls.]] This would be completely irresponsible and could harm the interests of public, Icelandic and state funds. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u4	A respectable president. The decision taken by the owners and the heads of the Granda administrations has only been discussed here. Of course, I'm glad that there is room for a considerable increase in pay, but it has to be said that this is an increase to the wrong group. It is a joy to see that this room is available because everyone, of course, long ago realizes that there is a great need for decoupling, but of course, it is not for managers or executives in companies, as comparison with the North countries shows that, at the end of the pay period, we are reasonably competitive. The hearts of the average and low - incomeers in Iceland are far behind neighboring countries. Therefore, it is reasonable and consistent that the good allowance established by the Granda executives and owners has been confirmed that there is a new source of pay in the country to raise the lowest wage in particular, and especially for those with less than 300 you. K. per month. Each man must wonder, " How is it possible to live in Iceland in 2015? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u5	A respectable president. In view of the fact that two progressive women, who are they? Senators, we came here yesterday and talked about the force in my section, I just want to take it. I think we all agree that we want to make good use of our time at the Hall, but already it is time for the end of Congress to begin the drama, which is basically about that the smaller part doesn't know what is going to take place, what subjects will be taken on the program, and what cases will come in. The majority of the objects are rolling their eyes, they don't understand that there's a filibuster, and they know members of the Independence Party, and the forward groups, of course, have no idea what it is. The whole program is kind of upset. I have no idea what the program will be ahead and what cases will enter the council. Very much. Minister of Social Affairs coming up with their business? Will there be a summer council? What's going on here? All of us want to help and get through with them. The problem is the highest. The President needs to have the program, but he doesn't have it because he's an extension of the executives. When it comes to the end of Congress, negotiations are scheduled in the other rooms, where everyone is so tired and confused and doesn't seem to know what's going to happen unless they're done. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, who has been in charge of both being head of the council and president. I'm asking, why aren't we making a deal now? Why are we not discussing the program until the end of Congress now? If we are going to negotiate a matter, what Senate case do we want, or how this is going to be done, why are we not discussing it now? I'll call for it. I challenge the two progressive women to make this conversation with their leaders, for it is the responsibility of the government that local Congress works well and that we complete this council. It is not our responsibility in the opposition. [[Up front.]] I can't afford to talk about anything. I just think it's a topic when I get up on the platform and I think there are members of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u6	A respectable president. I wanted to mention some of the same things that happened. paritaprevir St Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's irony said that all-time work at the Generals is pretty predictable. This does not mean that they are predictable in that you can plan, but that you can predict that you cannot really plan. Today, it is past the date that we are given to bring forth new members of Congress, understandable, yet it seems that they could bring about new members of Congress. It's called Congress, if I understand correctly that I'm not sure that it's the case, about stable tax as a matter of course. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson complained earlier that the government was not crying out. I'd like to explain why that is. This is because the discussion that needs to take place so that you can understand the phenomenon has not occurred. In part, this debate has not been made because the Honourable procurators of the Independence Party and the Foreign Party were not there to answer questions on Monday. We went over it at the time. Once more predictable, and unfortunately, typical. The goal now is to do more than a work plan will tell you - as you would expect. We also find it difficult to see in advance more than a few days what happens to a committee, let alone a conference meeting. Later, it takes more and more action at the council until it comes to negotiating what should and should not come through. It's scary and it's such a shock. I suggest we do something about it to fix this. I expect everyone to fix it because this is where the government's side complains over the rest of the section and most of the parts over the smaller part. Don't we want to solve this? You see, this can be solved. We just have to want to. We need to do this in action, so I suggest that we make our summer council this time, finish these matters, and begin to improve them. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u7	A respectable president. In the past earlier years, we, more than one and more, talked about the airport in the Hydromosis. I want to see the airport in the Watermelon as a transportation service, and I wonder what to do when it comes to it. At the same time, I'd like to say that I believe that we should respect the organizational authority of our community. It is a question, however, when it comes to the airport in Wateramamur whether it outweighs the interests of Reykjavík, the interests of Valsman ehf. or the interests of a nation. If we're confronted with an airfield leaving the Radial, we have no other reserve airport for international flights except in Egls and/or Akureyri. The flights west of America will not take advantage of that airport if you can't land at Keflavík. It's crystal clear. That's where we're heading, if it happens, at least to upset that flight plan. Apart from that, it is foolish to think that if we are going to the Watermelon airport, we are looking for a location in the capital area to put hundreds of millions in a new airport. [[Take it up to a billion.]] A billion. We're not. Then the international flight to Keflavík. We better be clear about these facts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u8	V.E.G. President. I agree with the members of the council here who have spoken and condemned what was going on with the HB Granda, i.e. to increase the administrative pay there by 33% at the same time as fish farmers are offered 3.3%. But I'd like to call the Generals' attention that the following is a macrollar bill where the mackerel is transferred to the labor department and that's giving the company $15,520 billion property in our national resources. [[Up front.]] Let us consider this context and discuss it today. I challenge the members of that council to attend that discussion. Second, I feel that there is reason to talk here about our stability tax concepts. For example, I have never expressed any opposition to him. I believe we're going to get rid of the currency registers. For this reason, a group has been formed that all political parties are expected to enter. The reason for our silence is that we have no idea what is being set on the table. We have no idea where we're headed. Is the taxation process being carried out in a similar way that was laid out in 2011? It is also worth considering that the groups that come here beating their breasts because of this were opposed or sitting by when the swellings were placed under the head of the currency in 2013, or when? [[For example: 2012]] 2012. An application was by. The independent party was opposed. That's the perfect basis for the ideas on the table. Let's discuss this honestly. It's a long time ago over some political debate. We're all in the same team, finding the best solutions. We're on the same team as that. We want information and discussion, and we want to be included in what is being done. The group that is working in the back of all political groups has shown that he is trustworthy, can keep quiet, and can remain confidential. That is more than can be said of others. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u9	V.E.G. President. The headline of an article published in DV Friday, April 10th, caught my attention, but it reads so, by President's permission: ▪ This is a large community. It is a gambling club in the capital area, probably illegal. The article says that large amounts of money changed hands, and these clubs advertise their activities without a mask on social media. Such activity is banned and punished under public law, but without evidence the authorities cannot act. The fact is, in spite of the legal requirement of penalties, a paradox in which gambling is permitted on the basis of special laws, and it is also impossible to gamble on non - Icelandic legal sites. A respectable president. This is the standard of existing legislation, so there will be no operations without supervision in a black hole, no income in a government fund, and there is no justice protection. In this article, we find an example of an individual's total debt of up to 5 billion. K. A respectable president. I have twice made a bill of gambling halls, but the council functions, so I have not yet been given a recommendation. The objective of the bill is to allow gambling halls in Iceland on the basis of a minister's permission, to set such general laws so that they will be performed under official supervision. This issue is about security, right protection, and control, to eliminate illegal gambling, a clear message about who is involved, about state income, about recreation in tourism. I believe there's a good reason for the Lawgiver to take this matter into consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u10	Mr. President. An organization that calls itself the Highland Nation, which consists of Land Protection, Iceland's Natural Protection Association, Iceland's Travel Association, the Future Land, and other organizations, is offering a highland festival in the University of University tomorrow night. They're all welcome and free to come in. This organization is calling attention to our highlands and how much national treasure they are. Sadly, not everyone is aware of the value of uninhabited highlands, such as Landsnet, and the road has been under great pressure to put together lines and roads that would break up the highlands and destroy its appearance. We know the work of more than a part of the employment committee taking out of parentheses and past work on the frame-set primament of the highlands, which are at the edge of a Lake Earth park, such as the Cradle. All of this is vandalism in Iceland's highlands where Iceland and I are supposed to appreciate and keep that we don't help them afterwards. The highlands are the same as many other ethnic treasures abroad, which many tourists observe and enjoy. We are to be mature enough to protect our actions. Happily, there is a nation's sense of awareness, the nation's population is waking up, but there are many who need to be caught up in the General Assembly and the institutions of the State, for it is a disgrace to the great struggle to destroy the highlands. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u11	V.E.G. President. This morning's meeting with Arion Bank analysis revealed many indications that there is a bright ahead of Iceland's economy during the next loss and years. Among other things, economic growth in this country is better than in major business countries. As a result of this analysis department's findings in the recent rates of the International Remuneration Fund in this subject. According to one estimate, a high level of energy lies ahead in the pursuit of employment investment, especially in diatoms and hotel buildings. It is also appropriate to be able to make more investments in fishing and fishing, where optimism and power are restored after over taxation of the past few years has ceased, with rising prices on most of the most important markets. Private consumption has taken over, and it appears that there will be considerable growth in personal consumption in the immediate future. The combination of these trends is historically low inflation, and there is evidence that this can continue if collective agreements occur in a way that the economy can tolerate. The main defenses established by the intelligence department are the result of emissions and the development of nigras in the country. Therefore, there is a special reason to rejoice over what has happened on the part of the government during the past few days regarding emissions. The confident and consistent steps that the prime minister announced in the recent Assembly of the Future Party and the head of the Independence Party in these last days are reason to be optimistic about the success of this matter. It is true that many of those who get knee - kneed hear the voice of numbers when big decisions need to be made. It is as expected and as no new news. Happily, there is now a government that dares, wants, and can make decisions on difficult solutions. However, there is good reason to be concerned about the status of collective agreements, but my hope is that a successful solution will be achieved. In this regard, it would be appropriate to point to the approval of the New Year's Assembly of the Agency on the matter of choice, by permission of the president: The advance team supports the struggle of low-payers for improved costs. Over the years, the public has taken on a heavy burden, but today the nation's economic situation has broken down. Suggestion of about 300 of you. K. A minimum wage is a reasonable human rights requirement. The Governing Body encourages the government to start work on abbreviated workweek in collaboration with the labour market. The focus of the advance party on increased family quality time and decent status is the basis for the desirable society of all. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u12	V.E.G. President. April 10th. Reports are that the North countries continue to promote their military cooperation in the field, as they say, an increased threat from Russia. In the joint declaration of the national State and Defense Ministers, increasing cooperation should consist mainly of more joint military exercises, more cooperation in industrial production, including military production, and cooperation in the area of data collection and development in all areas. The mission of Iceland is old-fashioned, to set out for military exercise. I think, unfortunately, the North countries are moving into militarized lands in their foreign politics as well as cooperation, which at this time is supported by a single state, a state already under economic pressure, and as a representative of the VG of the Foreign Affairs Committee, have expressed great doubts about the matter. I must ask: Is this what we would like to aim for in the Norwegian partnership, or is this declaration not a reason why we stay a bit? Is this a good opportunity for the world's peace searches, for us to increase our armor, and thus increase our arms race between East and West? At the very least, I think we're on the wrong track, and it's actually reported in a RUS report of the Ministers' declaration that the Norwegian military expert and adviser of the Norwegian Secretary of Defense assumes that the Russians will accept the declaration unregistered and will interpret it as a challenge. The general council needs to know how to discuss this and where to go, so I have requested a special discussion on this matter at the highest level. Secretary of state.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u13	President. I'd like to challenge the council that we have a summer council, simply because when I review all the big issues to go through the council in a few days, it seems very important to me that we have a professional practice here, that we do not have complex issues relating to all the people of the country, e.g. the stable tax, through the council when we really have just a night-and-night meeting to play. So I take my heart to it. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir, Brynhi, spoke earlier under this part of the program. I think it is very important that we begin to discuss the procedure and suggest when the summer council will be held so that we can organize our work. We need to cover stability taxes, housing bills, the bank bill where there is an increase in bank managers and priming options outside the box. We've got strikes here, here's what we're going to do for mackerel or fish fish heads. We're talking about bank booths where it's clear that the government parties are not completely alone, and then, of course, they're all members of Congress. Many members of the council, both in part and in smaller parts, have complained that their issues cannot be arranged. That is why I feel alone, President, that there will already be a meeting with the heads of the classes where the work will be conducted as well as that this will be arranged specifically at a council meeting. Monday. I'd like to challenge more or less members of the council, to put pressure on us to start preparing professional work at the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u14	A respectable president. I don't think the government and the council members take enough seriously the serious situation in the community. This has been the case last week with very serious health consequences and important social institutions. We see an impending strike, they're paying votes for strike operations on a large company of paymen in the country - and what are we doing here? If the U.S. Marshals take up this case and ask that the government officials come here after Easter and discuss this with us, the senators will tell us that we're wandering, that it's just some scary stuff. A respectable president. These are the issues we should discuss here, how we can meet the demands of the people who rightly call for a better standard of living, a better life, and we at the Council have many tools in our hands that we can use to meet that requirement. And what do we do here? They stand on the throne, telling the government opposition, saying that the opposition has different motives or the interests of some of the interests of the oceans, when all the information is required is that men come here, give information, tell us what's going on, talk to us about these most important interests of the nation, and about the livelihood of many people in this country, people who call for us to listen and answer their demands. A respectable president. It's a disgrace. It's Wednesday, and we haven't seen Prime Minister, and we haven't seen a financial minister here in a house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u15	A respectable president. I'm very concerned with the development of a New York airport. In recent winters, hopefully it has passed, the importance of the runway that runs from the north to the southwest, so called an emergency route, has been clearly evident. For example, on Sunday, March 8, plans were completed nine times. Airlines, individuals, businesses, and government agencies have been exposed to substantial costs because of the frequent disturbances in winter's flight, and the costs and disturbances would not be reduced if the runways were fewer. How ironic, then, that now that the spring is over, there will be construction projects that will have to be removed. Could the people be allowed to do so while other solutions have not been found in the airport? Or are we not expecting more difficult winters? Much has been made from the commitment of the capital to the real estate union Valors. But what is the commitment of the city to its people? What commitment does the agreement that Reykjavík's city has made with the nation by means of its organizational plans over the years, where the airport given to the nation has been most part of its plans? What it takes to enable the improvement rights specified at 51.3. g. Organizational? Could a complete closure of the airport at unscrupulous owners create an improved national responsibility for the city of Reykjavík or even close a single runway can become a basis for improving the responsibilities of Reykjavíkurburg if the airport's operating conditions are impaired? Does the city need to improve the nation's airport, with the city's capacity to pay for a new airport, or is it expected by the State to do so? Is there a chance and will that over the years, the budget for transportation needs to be set up to build a new airport? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u16	Mr. President. I'd like to mention, in the late issue of the President's conference board, what kind of problem we're in regarding time, organization, etc. I want to pray to the highest. The vice president was reminded that on February 4 of this year, he promised to have a meeting on a council committee, which was soon done, and at that meeting we were told we would need to find more on a council committee and meet in a meeting of night and news that has not been made. Why is this important in this context? Yes, because the Senate is the rules of the game, the playmaginate, the rules of how we work here at the council. And they're not good enough, but there are all kinds of ideas about how to improve them. It would be possible to increase the independence of a president. Hv. paritaprevir St Brynhildur's daughter, Pétursdóttir, admitted that the president is actually more dematerial than the generals. One thing that has been gained is the independence of the council president. Another factor that could be given to the smaller parts in order to direct matters to national requirements, as in Denmark, means that more people would need to come to a decision and there would be more agreement on that. [[The president calls.]] I'm calling for the President's offer to meet the first member of the Parliamentary Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u17	A respectable president. Start with me asking for this discussion at the highest level. The Minister of the Internal Affairs was discussed about a month ago about the violation of Iceland's competitive law. The U.S. E.A.'s competitive position has been an investigation of the Contestant Commission for years and is already very available, or very much, let's say, many complaints in the history of the European Commission in a competitive market. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister if he does not feel that there is a greater need to be in the business of Iceland's competitiveness in the company and to ensure that it is in accordance with competitive legislation and all healthy competitive environments, and the company's establishment on the basis of a private license and the obligation of the company to the public. Besides, I'd like to ask the Minister on one opinion subject. It is held in the agreements to the Contestant Commission that Icelanders make money from their monotonous status or the patent component of the operation to end the competitive business. Therefore, the president of Iceland's e-mail, and in a recent interview, the president of Iceland, said that it was contrary to the rules, and the competitive business actually made profit, but the patent component did not. However, this claim is not supported in the annual business overview, it is not stated in the annual accounts which aspects of the company give money and mail and communications agencies have made comments. So it still seems to be a matter of opinion, and then a very serious opinion, whether Icelanders use their own private marketing initiative to subsidize competitive business. I want to see if it's the highest. A minister can shed some light on this. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Whether or not to implement the European Commission's European Commission's Free Mail Transport Directive, which went into force for several years, would include a patenting of messages under 50 grams. Then I would simply like to have a little word with the Minister on these matters together. We have an Icelandic e-mail on public property, mainly because we have mail laws in the country where certain mail services, mail services are defined as, I think, basic services that need to be done. For example, it is legal to deliver letters in the country every active day throughout the year. It's legal in there that people have demanded to be sent to them to form a list of goods and all kinds of things. In some way, the whole code of the law shows that it is written in a world where there are no e - mails. We now communicate electronically. We communicate on Facebook by e - mail and by all means, by e - mails and electronic signatures. So it can be said that this has become rather out - of - date, and if it is not now out of date in five years, it will be highly out - of - date to have an entire code of laws that assumes that having a basic human right to receive letters written in ink is a basic human right. You can take care of these basics completely differently, so I wonder if you don't need to revise your legislation, and if you don't need to reconsider why we need to have a company on public property to do this once we have the Internet. Letters have been reduced 51% by the turn of the century, and so I speak out of my own cases, 90% by spam. [[The president calls.]] This appears to be super out - of - date, and it needs a revision.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u18	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, for recording this discussion here that I believe is very important. He is moving the basics of a postal service in his speech, and I am going to try to answer the questions he is pointing to me. Only with respect to the situation today. As mentioned earlier, the state has a private right to the mail service and has committed Iceland to take care of it. Privately, distribution of messages below 50 grams, version of stamps, launching of mail boxes and on the ID of Iceland's email, i.e. The mail hatch. The Ministry of Internal Affairs is now making changes to this whole law. This is due not only to the European Union's directive of private rights in the postal service but also to my opinion, and I agree with it by reason. A senator, the need to review the entire legislation as an independent matter of opinion. That work's going on. It is the task when we look at the services to define what is considered the basic services of mail, whatever it is that you need to be good at getting people home in some way, etc., everything has to be defined. Then there are other competitive factors, which naturally involve competition, and it does not happen that a business in public property is in a competitive market. It is my explicit opinion that it should not be, but in order that it can be so important to complete these definitions and complete basic work on the legislation itself. That's what we need to do now. Of course, the changes in communication have led to a tremendous increase in the number of e - mails in recent years, and the number of mails being reduced much faster than was expected when these legislation and mail changes were made in the 1990's. This directive has taken us quite a long time to implement it, it must be said at the moment, the directive is no. 6/2008 so that we have not had enough time to think about this matter. I think it's very important that we get on with this, and I strongly stress that it will be done. In 2012, the U.S. It was a little bit interesting to get the results from her. Among them was the question of how appropriate it would be to receive mail three times a week, but not every day as we know today. The answer was, and these were, of course, people of the whole country, that they were serving 60% of the respondents very well. So, in my opinion, it is reasonable to assume that for people the mail service is not as important as it was before. Whether the use of electronic mail can reduce the cost of services by altering these factors, you may wonder. Everything needs to be examined when it comes to this work. In other words, remove that exclusive right and at that job need to know how to cover the costs of the public service. The directive allows for three possibilities in this subject: First, the balance fund in which people on the market divide between the costs of services, secondly the offers of services, and third, that the state strengthens this service by means of direct donations from an employer. I haven't made a final opinion of this yet, but I agree that it's the responsibility of the state to secure these basic services, that's the role of the State, and I feel that it applies in all aspects of human life, to keep the infrastructure and the bases in order. Then, in my opinion, let the competition have its place, and I think it's the most beneficial thing for consumers in this country. I think it applies to the whole country, although we know that here in the capital area, it's easier to get into competition than anywhere else. This is what I think is important. Regarding my assignment in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, we are being involved in this professional aspect of the postal service. The stock of Iceland, however, is in the hands of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, so that steps are taken in the company's organization and how it will take place in the future are under the custody of the Ministry of finance. But I strongly express my view that I have not imagined that the State is about to run postal services to the future. [[The president calls.]] I don't think that's an option.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u19	V.E.G. President. I thank the advisor and Minister for this discussion, although at the same time I say that it would really be necessary to discuss the matters of the Post in general or just define what is basic service in 2015 and maybe write new laws about Iceland today. I appreciate this discussion, but I think it needs to be longer than in a special discussion. She's a much bigger deal. Like I said, what's basic service? It's going to have to go through it. If we go to the Postman's story, it's pretty big. It was in 1776 that my name, konungur Kristján VII., issued a mail campaign in this country. Two years later, an orderly delivery started between Denmark and Iceland - one trip a year. It was like that. Then came the post office, post office opened 1873, etc. We know about mail and telephone from 1935, and then we know that mail and telephone were replaced in 1998. The mail is today, in my opinion, considered a modeling company very successful, although there has been a reduction in services in the country's scattered areas regarding daily distribution. The company has, in my opinion, responded by recording a sort of e-mail. We know what they were like back in the day. I say for my part, a respectable president, because there are sometimes cases of private rights on these 50 greasing letters and lighter, which are repetitive and simply negligible, that it will come up as the telephone has responded by taking up additional electronic communication that I think has been delayed, among other things, because of the collapse and dramatic changes. I'd like to say, in all the country around five o'clock today, there are lots of cars with lobsters and mail from the mail from the mailman, and it can be pretty sure, in 99% of cases, that the shipments have arrived in the morning. [[The president calls.]] That is an excellent service, and the mail is very much appreciated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u20	Mr. President. Iceland is an official community, as it has been, and fully owned by the state. That's how I want to see him. The company has the exclusive right to the distribution of mail up to 50 grams but has not sought to continue their exclusive. The company is in a competitive business in another mail distribution, as we know it, and it has been observed that companies working in the same market believe that Iceland is making use of their size in the shelter of a patent, and size and mood of an abnormal competitive prelude to these rivals. The point is, the competitive business is to finance the exclusive rights, but Iceland is obliged to divide the costs of business management into competitive and private sectors. Monitoring agencies, such as the Post and Communication and the Contestant Commission, have been monitoring Iceland's business and has long been having problems with parties in a competitive market. I think there's a little bit of a search for a flyer where you can, but I'm less interested in doing an all-time service, as the European Commission is supposed to do. The relationship between Iceland's E-mail and the Contestance Commission over the business of business competitors has been improving in the system for many years, and little has come from what tells a certain story. These issues are now on the way of reconciliation that the Contestance Commission has put them in and is waiting for a conclusion. As I have wondered, there is evidence that this is a storm in a glass of water, but I believe it is important to explain Iceland's management environment so that this will not continue to be the case with the public market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u21	A respectable president. I appreciate your excellent discussion on Iceland's issues. Over the past few months and years, the Society has been very active, especially as a result of alleged violations of competition. Thus Iceland has been accused of violating the rules of competitive legislation that prohibit the misuse of market rights and economic segregation of government and competitiveness. There's still some issues at the Contestant for this. Is an official partner supposed to be in a competitive business? There is no absolute answer to that, but Iceland is linked to a number of companies and activities that are classified as competitive. The Society, for example, has 100% share in the context of ehf., 66% share in Frak ehf., 100% share in the Data Storage eHf., 100% share in ePosti ehf., 100% share in the Trans ehf., which is holding of one property, 20% share in the Internet in Iceland. And a 5% share in delivery ehf. Iceland has to do with competitiveness through multi-mail, transport services, van services, transport services, transport transport and warehouses, as well as the company's credit. It is now urgent to get some results in the Contestant investigation. We need to find a conclusion that Iceland's Council has subjugated a competitive business with income from a company on which the exclusive rights are involved. In part, the business paper has claimed that the management of Iceland's e - mail has also estimated 282 billion. K. the current prices have been used by taking private rights during the period 2009-2011 to cover free market competition that does not have the company's so-called services directives. This claim has been dismissed by the European Commission. Iceland has specific responsibilities on the distribution of mail all over the country and must not be forgotten in the discussion. Costs are needed because these responsibilities have increased greatly at the same time that letters have declined. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It is necessary to re-evaluate the role of the company and, therefore, the requirements for it. A changed society calls for a change in society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u22	Mr. President. During a discussion with the newspaper of the previous year, on the cover of March 2, Paul Pálsson's son Gunnar, director of the Contestant Board, notes that these issues of competitive behavior all, according to what he says, focus on this one giant on a market that has this particular position. He also says, by permission of the President: ▪ It's like a chain, because when it is added to a new discourse, there's a new party that explains some of the pieces. This will require that we step back with an advanced issue, and some of its review will be resumed. This is something a minister might want to consider. Is it really that way with the financial resources of the Agency, which the director referred to as practical for those who pursue competitive laws, simply continuing to do so? Then we'll have to start over with some complaints, and then we'll just have to start over. It is a strange situation if it is in the advantage of those who are rather competitive to continue to commit crimes. This explains, in part, why the process has taken seven years, since 2008, it has been handled. They started in some language 2008, and then there was only a new complaint, and because these issues have to start partly. It's a very strange situation. The secretary has to go down to the stitches, even the Senate committee would have to call for answers on this. One thing I'd like to know from a minister is where this whole law is. Who can have an effect on her now, who can come to her, sending in talks and comments? I'm sure there are a lot of people who would like to know. When can we expect the council to see such a code?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u23	A respectable president. One of the problems is that the number of letters and mail hatches are increasing, and the effort to deliver mail to every house is simply not up to it. If I understand correctly, there is a regulations that include the possibility of PCI and the reduction of the distribution costs by applying less frequently. A survey by consumers has shown, as was the case at the highest level. A minister came in, that they do not actually oppose getting the mail less than if I correctly understand the rest of this Regulation that they are waiting for the induction of some EU directive. I don't know exactly what's going on, whether the Regulation is ready, and whether the Minister can put it on or on every beach there. If consumers don't mind getting the mail less often that can save the company, that must be the first step. I agree with the people here about the fact that the State is not in general to compete, and it doesn't have to be necessary to care for something more expensive, such as handing out mail. I don't think that's fair enough. Then all government companies and institutions could use the same reasoning in some business. Swimming pools and swimming glasses and libraries could compete with shops and bookstores, and so on. In fact, pools sell candy, ice sticks, and other things I don't think they should do, but that's another story. I am a follower of what has been presented here, that we should consider whether the State should perform this service. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u24	Mr. President. I want to be thanked by others. the introduction of this need for a discussion about Iceland and the mail service in general. I agree with a great deal of what was presented in his language for a change of time, electricalization of letters, Internet services, and such things. I think we need to discuss the future of the mail service very much in that regard. We can also talk about Iceland e-mail specifically and try to figure out the problems he's facing. It's a worthwhile assignment. I realize the cost of distributing mail five days a week in rural areas and remembered as a farm worker saying that it would be much more valuable to get the mail closer to the home three days a week dry, but not a wet and damaged set in a mailbox somewhere on the road five days a week, with full respect for the mail workers. I have great sympathy for them in the battle against roads for the winter. It's just a decision in itself, and I think it's time for me to talk about making the decision to move mail service more into the market. We can protect the interests of our community, our citizens, by specifying the services as we would like basic services to appear, i.e. The basic services of the mail service, whether we call it anal service or some other name. We have the opportunity to define it for ourselves, and that is really the task we need. We've been more Catholic than the Pope in all of this when we talk about Iceland's problems. The regulation allows much more space for letting the company out of the unorthodox cost of mail distribution at some locations than it is today. The main issue in this discussion is that we realize that, after decommissioning the exclusive rights, we can talk about what we need and how we are going to define the general service and rights of our citizens. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u25	V.E.G. President. In my earlier speech, I came to remember that the reasons for this special discussion are some of the complaints that have been received to the Group of Nations about the operation of the mail, with a particular report of about 50. There's a problem with other companies that want to get into the market, but it's still supposed to be competitive, it hasn't been judged. I say for my part, as a former travel minister who has had to handle this matter many times, including to decide not to eliminate the 2008 exclusive right which was later confirmed in the Federal Government and the Left Motion of Green Pronunciation. It was also because of the situation in the country. The mail is a public property, and although it has been referred to as a shareholder in many companies, it is entirely debated what it should be in many companies. However, I would like to reiterate that the mailman performs a very good operation and has a very good ministry. Even though the mail is in a state rent, and that is not bad, it does include competition for fine service to transport packages and packages. Is there a problem with that? We'd rather just have two companies, a Artist and a move, or what's their name? No, I'm not on it. The mailman has intended to go further than I now know about a so-called ePost. All of this changes, and all of this is about to change, in line with the reduction of letters, which are always the main subject of the postal operation, and then it must only be handled by a respectable president. The level of this activity has fallen to a very low level. Then there is the debate over the cost of 50 different letters. [[The president calls.]] The accountant, the Contestant Guard, and the mailman must conclude this because, of course, the book should be very clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u26	Mr. President. No matter how good the Internet is, it doesn't solve Iceland e-mail. That's just the way it is. Iceland has really been developing and has, like, a boy. paritaprevir Kristján Möller mentioned, developing an electronic environment in ePosti. I believe that it is important to continue to have Iceland's high - quality service throughout the country and to maintain its whole - time responsibilities. We know that if the exclusive rights are taken away, there will be more ways to strengthen the company in serving all the people of the country. I've thought it best that some layer of equation would replace it rather than have an invitation to privatization, as well as ideas. Iceland has really been making progress. Many have felt that there, especially in many parts of the country that are vulnerable, and this has often been the case with financial businesses, Iceland, and its services there. As a result, they have stopped holding branch offices in many places. Instead, there has been the service of e - mail. As I've heard, it's only turned out well. People have been critical of this at first, but it has been found to be a good service. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, Iceland Summit, is also in larger transports and has given companies such as the move and the Artist a real competition, which I think is a great need. But it is as it is, when the state takes some business only on the little toe of its private people, they scream and scream but have no interest in anything other than skimming a cream on top of what happens best. [[The president calls.]] That's what I think. Councilmen should think only about and not start talking down this company that serves the whole country and is basic services.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u27	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss Iceland's issues and thank you very much. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steing Steingrímsson's son for taking up this case and the highest. Minister Ólöf Nordal for her input and answers. This is an deserved debate, the affairs of Iceland's e-mail have been the nature of a case on the board of the Rapporteur and, although notably, during the past few weeks, the company's issues have been in the media. It has been observed that Iceland has the exclusive right to distribute letters below 50 grams but at the same time the legal obligation for the company is to give all the people on an equal scale comparable to that of a fixed quality service. In the end, it is my opinion that basic services are of utmost importance and what decision will be made regarding the conflict that has been made in the debate on the overlap of competitive conflict and the exclusive rights. The main criticism and comments of the Rapporteur during the past few years are just about that business doesn't fully understand the difference. It is a serious matter, if right, that the costs of competition are being transferred to the exclusive court. As shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir The Guðmundur son of Steingrímsson has been telling the company's director that this is the opposite. Of course, these differences need to be determined, but in the meantime we must protect our basic services and equal prices and quality throughout the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u28	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion. First of all, the issue needs to be settled whether an Iceland source uses income from the patent component to end the competitive business or not. It is unacceptable that the company's annual report should not answer that question. She did this until 2012, and it was shown in annual accounts that it was that way, the private Marketing program brought down the competitive business, that's why we're the managers. This is unacceptable. We're supposed to take it seriously when a government company becomes a source of competition. The treatment of an Icelander is now a matter of competitive violations. In my cook books, it means that he has been shown to be competitive. There are people in the country who may want to take on lost luggage for Icelanda to their country's homes and businesses. This is what Icelanders do by contract with Icellands. There are people in the country who may wish to be on the mass mails and melts and the other things, building data storage, and so on. It's all a business in Iceland now, possibly in the power of its patent. It's bad for a free competitive environment in the country, and I'm glad it's the highest. Minister agrees with me on this. I don't know, I don't know, I mean, I don't know, I mean, I don't know, I don't know, I mean, The world is simply changing. You only need to read the letter code on the mail service to see that it is not long before it becomes out - of - date, so the company may be forced to get caught up in this competitive business. What is the future in this regard? I think basic services will be done electronically. I think building up the Internet is an important basic service just as we are doing, the optics all over the country, so everyone's communicating. [[The president calls.]] Then there is the growing demand for a network store and all kinds of beer delivery related to it. We are simply to allow companies on a free market to compete for consumer favor in this subject. I say, let's build up Iceland, sell the company, and use the value of it simply to create electronic communication in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u29	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion. A European authority works on the basis of its legal rights, of course he needs to do so. By law, he plays his own personal role, and of course he upholds what the law says. In the matter of competitive conflict, it must be treated by the appropriate authorities. It is vital that this be solved. Of course, it is forbidden to subsidize a competitive business with a patent, which is in place. This is a conflict in which the company rejects it, conflicts that I cannot evaluate, but until the authorities have to decide on it. It does, however, shed light on how urgent it is if we look to the future planning of these matters, and then it is my firm opinion that we must complete the definition of this service, agree with us about the basic needs that the State needs to meet, and then on the State in my opinion that we do not want to work competitively. It's my opinion that once the preparations and legislation are complete and the men have drawn this up, the time point is that we're going to sell Iceland's mail. It's what I can see in the future that they will do. I'd like to start getting ready for the Home Office for Internal Affairs to go to the laws needed in the mail field, but I'd like to admit that the Icelandic e-mail stock isn't in the State Department, that's in the Ministry of State. Nevertheless, it is our responsibility to define these factors. I'm expecting to submit a legal bill on this during the coming council. It's still being done at the Ministry. There's a lot of factors about alcove funding. It's off the board. Then they have to make a presentation before they are presented here to make comments, etc. I think it is imperative that we have a good discussion of this in the coming winter how these organizational matters will be best handled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u30	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to conduct a fish operation on the North East Atlantic Ocean Oceansk. It's 1,165 and 691st. The bill is made up at the pro-address and innovation department and was consulted with the Fish Office and the Ministry of Economics on certain matters. This bill suggests the distribution of temporary harvest divisions in mackerel to six years of age. Each year, the distribution will be extended by year, until the regulations of the bill on distribution arrangements are changed or a new arrangement is set into a law that measures a different arrangement. The bill also stipulates that in terms of at least six years of notice, the income share of these items will not be cut down in part or entirely. This is in order to promote a measure of awareness at the hunt, but the availability of fishing and fishing is important in terms of investments, markets, and hunting times, to name just a few. The law says that the resource in Iceland is national property. The Declaration of the Government states that the Conventional rights to Use Resources will take over from a permanent distribution. Therefore, it is important to share new institutions with others to state clearly about the distribution of temporary rights while the legislation on temporary contracts for all fish stocks has not been completed. The Government's declaration also says that the source system remains the basis for a fish - fishing regime in Iceland. In the opinion of the U.S. Marshal on No. 702/2012 and 7400/2013, it is the opinion of an agent that the obligation to share the macroil strain was not formed later than 2011 and that failure to respond to the obligation is in accordance with law. The reference to the above points clearly shows that it is important to place macroil as suggested in the bill. There is more uncertainty about macroil than about other strains. Thus, in Icelandic law, mackerel began on only seven to eight years ago and the mackerel could change their behavior due to changing conditions in the ocean or changing the food supply. For example, he could increase his walking here even further. In addition, there is a disagreement on the division of the strain and no agreement between Iceland and other coastal countries on its use. In addition, uncertainty has increased that several of the fishing vessels that have been given mackerel on the basis of the current arrangement have chosen to pursue the Icelandic state and demand damage due to the alleged false distribution of macroil. Politicians believe that it was mandatory to establish macroilisation according to law in previous fishing periods and to become valuable to them because of this. It is anticipated that this case will take several years if the decision of the district is given to the Supreme Court. So the bill suggests that the repartments are valid until six years of age. I specifically highlight that other views apply to the sharing of this new strain when it comes to time binding in the above evidence, but it is generally thought to apply to the strains that otherwise are discussed in managing with temporary contracts. In the bill, it is a process to provide two - kind - in - a - part division, one to be distributed to ice - fishing vessels, freezer ships, and sea fishing vessels, and the other to boats that have caught by lines or by hand. The shares, or catch points, on the basis of them cannot be set apart between the two ships. It is expected that by means of the distribution of labor shares to ice fishing vessels, freezer ships, and sea fishing vessels, 90% of the total stock shares in macroil will be distributed on the basis of hunting experience 2011◯2014. The design of these ships can also apply for a supplementary share of resources that were used for farming between 2009 and 2010. This supplementary section corresponds to 5% of total share of the labor share in macroil. At the beginning of the mackerel, a large race was expected to be partly caused by a business effort to develop hunting experience. This gathering relationship was severely criticized at a contract site on the division of the mackerel population. In view of this and the fact that more valuables could be won by the fishing process, the government at this time greatly encouraged human consumption and promised that it would be considered objectively to take into account when it came to the distribution of institutions. However, it is assumed that the price of the labor share of ships used has been to include line-and hand fishing in macroil, i.e. Small boats, as mentioned earlier. The 5% share of total resources is expected to be their share, and the hunting experience of 2009 through and by 2014. The bill also expects that the mackerel power of these boats of 2009-212 would have increased 43% of the difference in the calculation of the cutaway to the pioneers who were truly testing and developing methods of hunting that would be used to follow-up. This indiscretion to the pioneers accounts for some 700 tons compared to the distributed macrolills of 2014. The bill assumes that the Minister will provide further regulations on the implementation of the law in the Regulation, including the Commission. Further guidelines for allowing total resources to be determined. Thus, the overall section of macroil will be published in a specific regulation for each season of hunting. The target of a fishing vessel during each hunt period will depend on the annual allowed total levels of macroil and its share of fishing vessels within the total volume of the target range to the current 5.3% in accordance with law. It is evident that by the distribution of labor divisions, there is an opportunity for a significant economy in the macrotic fishing process by means of the launching of guilds. The criticism of the saying of the saying system, which is the most loudly focused on the values derived from the article with the provide of resources. It was tried to look for ways to cope with the criticism at the construction of this bill. For the sake of distribution, their benefits and their defects, a wide variety of distributions were examined. Over the course of time, a taxation of stock markets that seemed more than willing to respond to the above criticism was taken away. Upon further inspection, it became clear that there were too many people who were cut short to make it realistic to believe that such a tax would provide what was intended for it. Along with this bill, therefore, it provides a hunting bill. It contains a special requirement for stress on the cost of macroil, 10 k/kg for the next six years, which is expected to deliver nearly 1.5 billion per year. It is reasonable that those offering reassembles for use on the basis of this bill pay a special price in excess of the usual fishing fee for a new stock. The trade of his resources has not been done until now, and is still present, unlike other institutions that have been in the dining system for a few decades and there have been purchases and sales. A respectable president. I have now explained key points of the bill and suggested that it be referred to 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u31	President Hithv. Seeing this bill is a tremendous disappointment. How in the world is this going to make peace with the future organization of the article, as the government covenant says? If I get this right, I'm putting in a retail department and allowing a general expedition and a tenet. If I get this right, this means that there's been a transfer of property to those with hunting experience according to these rules at a rate of 100 to $150 billion. on one board. Is there something to settle for at the same time that these companies pay for interest, pay special extra wages for the management, etc.? Is not normal, chief. Minister, that we take our place and take the first step from the so-called Syndicate Committee that is often quoted, that we get the resource restrictions into a constitution, make no sense that this is a national property, and that it will be made as such? That was the suggestion number one and the only suggestion that was completely acceptable. What's keeping us doing this? We have a chance to do that based on changes in the constitution. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u32	A respectable president. Here's a word. A senator figures 100 to 150 billion. When such bullshit talk is presented, they have to put some paper on the table about what they're worth and how they do it. Then let's take the discussion about how the law is in the country, what the agent's opinion, who to form a government policy, and what laws apply in this country. Now it's time to share mackerel. This we do with a considerable change from what has been done, one for six years, and another for a particular price in excess of the fishing price. I think we should discuss on the subject of what we are dealing with and how we distribute legally into a industry that has been working here for ages.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u33	V.E.G. President. Let's talk about what's behind such high numbers, and the market has to answer the high level of credit and the possibility of selling themselves out of this article, leaving debt in that article, and making profits elsewhere. That is exactly what this nation has fought against. That's what has been the biggest problem in the eater system since the beginning. There's no way to sink in your knees because someone's turning charges, we're talking about a new species, mackerel, and an extension, and that means the highest level. The minister of seafood will admit, at the same time as we learn that the cod population is growing substantially, that there is a exclusive right to all our resources forever. Is it not true that governments take up the struggle more strongly against it? That's what I'm asking to be done. You see, this is as low as the average fishing system is going. They're talking about six years that will be extended every year, i.e. Now it takes a six - year - old way to resign. [[The president calls.]] What is it like in the present law? According to Sigurður Líndalur, this can be done on a year's notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u34	A respectable president. I think that if we start to discuss how long it is that most scholars believe that it takes at least 15 years to do so, most have talked about 20, a few 25. It's been over for years, so I don't think we should go there. As I said in my previous counter-reference, it is brought here on a significant scale by the timing of the distribution to six years and, on the other hand, by taking an additional fee. In my speech, I reviewed that I agree. A senator said that the biggest problem in the saying system has always been those who have sold their shares and left the article. We were looking for detailed ways to fix this - can we call it an outpost tax? These routes were not found, simply because there were too many coats in that direction. Hence, an additional fee will, of course, be added to the state funds as a larger share of the values here being shared because it is recognized that it is adrift in the macro, which is not in other institutions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u35	Mr. President. It's a really smart move. 2.g. The bill actually means that as soon as the bill becomes a law, this distribution is stuck for six years and can't be dumped. So it goes on for one year at a time, and it always stays in those six years if you don't quit. And it's only possible to resign by six years' notice, which means that the next government and the next council is always bound by this. Suppose there was another crash or some difficulty that meant that if the fish fishing groups, the two greetings who have protected the interests of those who make most of their current systems, they will always be careful that if they get back into control, they will just extend. It's called tying hands. I don't know any better than that. The minister of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson was just complaining that one assembly was not allowed to tie the hands of another council, which is exactly what is being done there in the nation's greatest interest. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u36	A respectable president. If we are to discuss employment, let us do this in a way that compares ourselves with other nations. Why are there six years? Yes, it may be a minimum time for me to face up as I did in my talk. In Denmark, the distribution of mackerel for six years extended to eight years and continued for a year. In the Faeroe Islands, people set aside a specific period of ten years, and people are now discussing what to take over. We're not here to change anything. We're making sure that we have the necessary prerogative for the industry to make the most of it for our national preparation. At the same time, we are ensuring that natural things will go for the community because we all acknowledge that it is the benefit of sharing and selling and going out. We didn't find the right way to tax the results that have been discussed, so we're paying for this additional fee. [[The president calls.]] Let's talk about it that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u37	Mr. President. That's a very good argument. Of course, there is a need to make sure that we have the experience in this article. Six years may be a minimum time, but that's only half the story. This is a reference to the giving of this saying to six - year - old, with some sort of payoff instead of making contracts, the free market on which this is distributed, and on a free market, a contract can be obtained as well as many years. There's something I think that the people are quite ready to write up, that's fair and ensures a sense of sustainability and stability in this article. I'm sure that's all right, and I think the people agree completely with that. But there's a guarantee of the gift box for six years, and tie up the hands of the next government. It's very well played. One other thing in pars. The bill that needs to be mentioned is: ▪ Let there be inconsistencies between the regulations of these laws and other fish - control laws, these laws should apply. If these laws go into effect and fall to some extent, they contradict Article 1. the law on the government of the national property has created doubts about national property, which can mean that the legal status of those who are currently suffering the bigotry is stronger for the future. [[The president calls.]] Let us keep that in mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u38	A respectable president. About the last thing that ever happened. A senator named these are special requirements, and this is an explanation. There is nothing that conflicts with 1st pars. the law on the control of fishing, these are technical exports. I'd like to say that six years are absolutely minimal, as I took this into account, pointing to the example of other nations. It's the least I can do in the premonition. We simply have laws in the country and because of what. A senator mentioned that there are other ways to go, and those who work in any trade in Iceland must comply with the law of law. The fact is, for example, regarding the small boats involved here that have these 700 tons compared to the industry of 2014 that for the Offeys, they have tried fishing on lines and handles, but it has not been because men need knowledge, need to learn, experiment, and it costs money. The system that we have built up for decades is based on the fact that projections are ready for cost of fishing experience. The law has the expectation that when it comes to sharing, you will be provided for that hunting experience. [[The president calls.]] Gonna go for it. A senator taking that motive out of the industry?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u39	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u40	A respectable president. That bill is certainly worth all the attention. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of the arrangement he's here for. It's like... paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson pointed out, some kind of mini- deal route he's bringing us here. According to the bill, 90% of the labor departments in mackerel are involved in large, productive enterprises that have acquired hunting experience in macroil. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister would have considered an auction route in the seaside with this particular species, since it is so new into our jurisdiction, whether this was a great opportunity for these bossy companies to compete on a free market and a price that runs out to the state's budget on a competitive basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u41	A respectable president. From time to time, there have been voices in this conference saying that the mackerel is the right thing to post an auction. That was 2010 and 2011. It wasn't new. According to an agent, on the basis of law in Iceland, it was time to share the mackerel on the basis of a law that then existed in the country. The opportunity was 2010 and 2011. It wasn't new. Most countries that have tried the auction route have found themselves in trouble, and most have turned away from that route. It has ended by the fact that very few organizations reach out to them all, the polydiversity will be no one, and the rationale will be completely dependent on that. At that point, it's not and it's not been comfortable with this community. There are no laws on this subject. There are other laws that point out that one is going to go another way, so it would be completely out of the map. I would point out that this opportunity was 2010 or 2011, but it is by no means available today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u42	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of clear answers. They really were. He thinks that the opportunity has slipped away with an auction route in the seaside, but then I'd like to ask him about the arrangements he puts here, as I told you before, a sort of mini-cope route, I hope I don't get it wrong. Suppose you're going to share this with these companies, which I don't see should want to give them the distribution because they've already got a golden opportunity, but I ask: Is there something against the fact that the provision of these shares could be in the market?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u43	A respectable president. About your last question. Of course, the candidate for what is happening in the market is open and free. Maybe that's what we've been wondering about most about, as we already talked to other senators, what happens at first sale, i.e. magazines. That is why these six years are set aside for a temporary addition because the ways we were considering to handle the taxation proved impossible entirely. Then you're going to propose an initial fee. There's also a temporary way out here. My deal? I believe these six years are actually the minimum time to have a precarious experience. If we looked at the arrangement we were making in the fishing management business, we might have been talking about 15 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u44	Mr. President. I think it's a complete scandal how much it's done. A minister intends to assign this common resource to the nation that came into the jurisdiction not so many years ago. It is indeed a gift - vacate that these modern - day donor parvote groups are going to deliver certain stakes with extorts and purses. Sounds to me like nobody likes this very much. The country relationship between small boat owners is very unhappy and feels that it will destroy the way it has been going to the mackerel and build up at high cost. We know that the large ships in the seas did not have to cost much in order to feed macroil because they had equipment for hairy and silhouettes that they could use. To turn this into money overnight, when and if this bill is approved, there's a complete scandal that's not supposed to be passed. [[The president calls.]] I hope the nation is resurrected. What's wrong with renting it in the year and putting it all up with relief, tops. Minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u45	A respectable president. I thought it was a complete scandal if we didn't do the law in this room. There's a law here. [[Up front.]] Here's a very different view, here comes why. A senator who claims that a part of the project had to cost a fortune. Another elder in the discussion earlier claimed that there was nothing needed to be costed. [[Up front.]] There are very different interests in making money between big and small. It's very important, and I've given it a high priority as a minister of water in all the primes and the debate I've had with the senators that we have to ensure a wide variety of water courses in the country. We need to ensure a national profit - making route in the land. It's part of human awareness. We need to provide the people with a natural share. It's what we do with hunting costs and on the other hand, which is actually part of the hunting bill but it says in this bill, adding an additional fee to the mackerel. And I know why. A senator also knows that some in the miniboat sector feel that this price is all too high. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u46	V.E.G. According to a minister, there's a difference between deforestation. Yes, it is. V.E.G. A minister has in his hand how he controls the payment of different categories, and I think it should be considered, but there's no need to go to saluting the mackerel because the law says so. The law can be changed and that's what we're here for. We can set laws that are going to be different with new species such as mackerel than the species now in the panorama department. The great criticism of that cry system is well within its rights. We are familiar with the great financial contributions and the injustices that have followed the greeting. Now that there is a golden opportunity to go with the mackerel, it is not a new end of stiff - necked guesses in power. I'm just saying we're not supposed to feel like this because they're robbing the nation with this greeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u47	A respectable president. There's a pretty big word here, and I'm straight to it. A senator who sat in the government and more part during the last term of the question: Why was the opportunity not new 2010 and 211 at the time? A senator was here in the greater part? Right away. A senator says there's no change here, it's not wrong. This is a temporary right, and this is a further charge on behalf of the distribution. In other words, it is being done quite differently. In case of a moment. A senator calls it a complete scandal not to be done completely differently, why did not fail. A senator was referring to the period in which she was in charge?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u48	Are you still in a position of government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u49	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss the government's bill of command in the northeastern Atlantic Oceansk, which came to us, fortunately, into the land weekend a few years ago and has created an enormous amount of value, especially during the difficult years, so they were delighted that the mackerel had arrived. He has made good provision for the local fishing industry, but we should also remember that we do not yet know enough about the impact of the macros around us, in the environment of the oceans, on the foods that our main populations need to feed and grow. Happily, the results of a Marchal Oceanographic Institute are now being introduced, and at first glance there appear to be many positive results. As I'm saying, this guest of ours has created a great deal of land, but he's also taking a lot off. Let us keep that in mind. What I want to say in the beginning is to the highest. By permission of the Supreme Court, a government declared in their covenant for a fishing road. President: The government wants to make peace with the future organization of the article. The proposal of the reconciliation committee, which worked during the initial period, will continue to be carried out on the basis of a permanent intervention. I have to explain to myself many of the things that are now at the highest level. In an effort to repair changes in the fishing system, a secular minister listened carefully, just as he also listened carefully to the changes in the fishing system. A minister declared that there would be no bill due to a conflict with the other administration party, i.e. The Independence Party, the implementation of what should be done with the entire fishing system in order to make greater peace, in order to meet various views in society, with this fundamental point that I have always felt sorry for could be done, and it would have to be done if there were never to be 100% approval among the people. It will never be satisfied, but it will be more acceptable than it can be today for a fishing system that is involved in the distribution of just one year at the same time. The article is upset about this, really every year, at least every four years, in elections, because we at the Council are obliged to do what we have called our chief work to achieve a greater reconciliation. In 1st. The fishing laws say that the fish in the sea is a country's share. The Icelandic country must then gain a lot of money from this resource. The most remarkable thing that happened during the last term of this article was, in my opinion, when the then government was able to pass the Allied Fishing Act. It was one of the many proposals of a so - called reconciliation committee that we would continue to build on a market system, but for use there would be payment. All classes have concluded taking moderate fishing fees. Then there is a definition of what is moderate and how to calculate it. We'll talk more about fishing when that bill comes up for discussion at the Council whenever it happens. But it is true that when we were recording the fishing system, we were at the worst, considering what real-time information we had on how we should work it out. We did so in view of two years of age, which the Habitat has been working for centuries, never thinking of as a root for the stress of fishing a fee. Therefore, our project at the General Assembly is to develop more methodology so that real-time information is used only in the respect of the tax system, to force that is the country over a two-month period is the basis for cost stress. In this way, he will take changes to increase or decrease depending on what is going on in the market. There are modern information that we need to keep on this point. But why did I read from the government covenant on sea issue? Because it is very clear at the beginning of the discussion and in the social debate that has occurred after this bill showed that it will not be able to create an agreement on how we should distribute this resource, what common funds are to receive for it, and how we could be equal to it, but will also consider those who started fishing at great cost but little hunting, especially during the early years. It's bound to the law, as we have seen here. That's why I thought this bill shouldn't be done now because of the government's plans to make more peace and bring a new bill. I think we could have gone on for a year or two more and done this the way we've done in the past few years. I would have wanted to see before or at the same time fulfill the divine standard. The prime minister has spoken of, and all political groups in the General Assembly agree to enter a constitution that the national resources are shared. That's basic. I thought for a long time that the government was going to fulfill that promise, but it doesn't seem to me that it's because of the conflict within the government's parties on the way. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] So that's what it was described by the highest power. A sea chief minister whom I deeply respect spoke with so much honesty that he did. And that's how we're supposed to do it. There is no agreement with other coastal countries on how to distribute this vast resource to avoid overfishing as we are doing, to us and to others when counseling. Table 7 of the bill shows that in 2013 the advice was 542 you. a ton, but a total of 932 you. Ton, 72% improved counseling. We hold fast to our best interests, that we have so much to share in this stock that comes here to eat, and eats from other species as I could at the beginning of my speech, that we have no rights. So I have to say that it was a real disappointment how our cousins, whom we so call and who have worked very hard in fishing business, had our backs this past year. While this matter is not yet completed, I don't think there is any reason to share it as it is being proclaimed here. I've made it a rule to listen to 1st. A case while representatives of all classes swerve their views and ideas. I have a place on the pro-advisor committee that receives the bill, so I'll listen to what's going on here and how it's going to be discussed and passed through the case, but I also noticed it in the transmission speech at the highest level. Ministers that he spoke of which way to use. Is it this way or is the way that some things go to those who have hunting experience and a larger part of some kind of auction market where the state offers and people do bids, those who want to hunt more, etc. and the best want to catch more? It's okay. V.E.G. A minister earlier said that there was some problem with how to do this for the valuables that are drawn out of this article. That is where I come to what has been the main reason for the controversy in society on our main path. It is the value that is derived from the article when those who have an income share from the nation and who have paid for it some price in the past year sell themselves out of the article, stop, buy, and owe themselves much because of the price they already have, and may even cause problems for those who have bought. For example, my mind comes up with a settlement in the Northeast standard that the members of this district have recently been discussing the movie as a result of the greeting system, i.e. that when it came to defending the resources of the community and buying more which is so like hanging chairs in the whole community today. This is the problem and the highest. A minister spoke of patterns, using that word. During the winter of the winter of the winter, it was generally said that the sea route, the sector, had always found ways of accepting even before the president of Iceland signed the bill that had been accepted by then. These are the facts. It's the worst thing, in my opinion, in the eating system. We'll always have to control our hunts and not take what we want. It must be kept in mind root sizes and other aspects of the past few years, which are even more important to consider, i.e. that the buyers of our seafood demand that we be in sustainable fishing, that we not overfish our stock. That's exactly what's probably happening with the macroil stock, no agreement, and that's why I'm not sure of the way this is being offered at this point. They've talked about how it's hard to take a new species here and do something other than when we started, i.e. to appoint to those with hunting experience, but we can put some in hunting experience, some percentage of which I'm not going to express myself, but the state can stay behind and try to develop a party of salaries, have some levels at a sea convention, which is offered as done by various species in a so-called 5.3% pot, even over time. It would have been possible and is still possible for me. However, these issues have been presented in very different viewpoints and in the 15 minutes when a person is intended for a first talk at 1st. on the subject, I have some comments and questions about ways that have gone. I don't have time to put them all forward right now, but I think it's better to do so on that committee. Once the reviewers have sent us reviews and opinions, the committee will go through the data, but I'll put a great question mark on these six years and if the General changes, it'll take six years to turn down. It could even happen that there will be no mackerel in Iceland after six years, it can happen. We have no doubt that this fish will remain with us indefinitely. Finally, I want to say, a respectable president, that what I think is unfair, too, is when the reference years are made. This bill speaks of the years 2011-03/2014, and if you look at them specifically, there are the sea fishing vessels that began with a great deal of experience, but small boats, lines, and hands, and ships without hunting experience, have very little. You might ask yourself: " Is it not more honest and reasonable if one is going to go along to share in saying in time that X years will be the reference years? As far as I'm concerned, the little boats that started the line-and-hand fishing, which started late because they had to go into big investments and they couldn't manage the fishing, how to do this, etc., with very little fishing experience that makes them very little out of this overall amount if this bill goes on. This was my first reaction in 15 minutes. I would have wanted to say much more about this, but at the end, only I want to know that we have one example in the past of the government. [[The president calls.]] Once once again, in the General Assembly, which I remember everyone to agree on the trade ratio of 50/50, the shrimp was remedied. That is a way we have shown ourselves in that case. Why shouldn't she be good at these things?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u50	A respectable president. Because of the last word why. A senator often showed it up on my part and many in the administrative parts at least that the way we dealt with the shrimp was by no means exemplary for what followed, but we were breaking free from complications that the last government brought to them completely unsatisfactory. Thank you. A candidate for a verbal speech. Regarding the persecution in 2013 that he mentioned, we at that time made significant comments to the counseling, as did many others, also the Norwegians who believed that the stock was much larger, as later came in 2014. Nevertheless, the problem is just as near as it would be. A member of the council that when three coastal states agreed on this, they took an abnormal thing and did not expect a natural thing for those who were catching from the powder, anyway, to some form of overfishing, compared with the advice given in 2014. However, it was corrected considerably from earlier years, no doubt a lack of appreciation for the powder. The share of the small boats and the failure to take into account that fishing experience is exactly what we do. There are different years of age and experience was taken into account. We've been directing the fishing of icefish, seafood and frozen vessels by hand for the past few years, and we're building on the fishing experience created after the first fish hunts. We look at the pioneers of the food industry in 2008/2009 or 2009/2010; I can't remember which one was, the one they could apply to increase their share by up to 5%. Since the fishing experience of the small boats lasts from 2009 to 2011, it includes a period of six years, acknowledging that the boats went out and protected the way, meeting the means to make use of this, which was also a normal addition. [[The president calls.]] I wanted to answer that right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u51	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for this answer and speculation is presented here. He made it a subject of what I said in my last seconds of my speech about the changes made on the shrimp after she had been out of the way to dinner and only from those who wanted in years that were not very much to attend. This bill was won by a professional health committee after the highest level. A minister suggested that it be expected at the beginning of 75/25, if I recall correctly. [[Up to 70/30.]] What? 70/30. When we went through this on the Committee, it was the part that I was trying to say in a matter of seconds specifically that we were able to talk down to a conclusion, and there is nothing very often about the changes in a fishing system that we saw in the votes as it was then. Everyone had to yield something of his own viewpoint. Those who wanted to say goodbye in the ratio 70/30 left behind. Those who wanted to keep the hunters free continued to yield. The result was to split it 50/50. I'm not going to have a fart at the top. A minister to see if any complications were resolved. However, I do not agree with the minister in terms of being an example. This was an example of perhaps being able to talk down on a greater level of peace. That's basic. Only with regard to the overactivity as the highest. The minister spoke about it, it's true that the counseling went up to 1 billion. a ton of tons, increased by 100% between 2013 and 2014, but the total pay was still 1,400 you. a ton, i.e. 28% over. If a minister comes back, I'll come back to my later answer to the little boats and possibly a mackerel as part of a mocha or community action that we could use by also using mackerel. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u52	A respectable president. I agree with what. A senator, who is very important in his speech, explained that we can make peace with this industry so that she can work peacefully for the intervention of politicians at regular intervals. I'm also going to reiterate what I said before, that the warning that this wasn't an example, that we were dealing with a particular problem, let's just leave it in the middle of the part where it came from with the shrimp. I didn't finish with the little boats and I was going to add to the information that we're ingesting by 5%. That may sound small, but it's never been more, and in the early part of the last year to the little boats, they were quite well within 4%, actually caught 4.7% at the time, so this 5% has never been greater. That's right. That's right. A senator, the first few years of catching little men. Many felt that this was impossible and would not be worth it. It wasn't until some went to that expense, and maybe they had been fishing for about two, two, or three years with no profit that they found the way, and then more came along and ended last year in about 120 boats, I think. This is natural, considering the legislation we have already had and the expectation that people expect to get back what they put in the system we've built over the years. I repeat, that thing has never been bigger.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u53	Mr. President. According to a table on the bill, and I'd like to say that there are some important and good data that are to be followed by, of course, the line-and-hand fishing boats did not start fishing until 2010 and caught the 179 tons. The following year, they went to 304 tons, in 2012 to over a thousand tons, in 2013 to nearly 4,700 tons, and in 2014, the best was the best one for many who had been on boats, as we have seen, and then they caught nearly 7,500 tons when the fishing was stopped. What I was trying to do was that I don't think it's fair to them that they might not have the same motive or the means to catch a mackerel in the first three years of their lives, i.e. 2007, 2008, and 2009, when a sea fishing vessel caught 36,500 tons in the first year of the second year 112 you found. ton and 2009 116 to you. a ton. These years are naturally not taken into the reference years, but as I say, it seems unfair to me that this is not usually done so that, for example, a line-and-chattering boatkeeper could have started out with a greater power if it came to this share line-up like I'm here making a lot of publicity. A respectable president. What I would have wanted to say before and to use a few seconds to say is that I have long felt that into the settlement, 5.3%, it is no more than that which is used to help break-offs, duets, linefalls, and all that, should take a certain percentage of the macroils. For example, when I was pointed out by a fisherman and a artisans that a mackerel was not to be caught on a line or by a hand hand in the summers of northern countries, when he was most fat and valuable. [[The president calls.]] This species of fish could be a welcome and a fine addition to this small 5.3% pot, which is very important to many small settlements in Iceland, despite its small size.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u54	Mr. President. We'll discuss a bill on mackerel profiling and reimbursement. V.E.G. Minister has spoken of reconciliation. I don't feel that this is a lot to agree with, either with the article or the nation, and it really feels like a wet barrel in the front of the public and those who have wanted to make changes in the code we live in and have done all too long. If this is the foretaste of what should be done in the bill of the Minister, which is likely to appear at the next assembly, where it could not be agreed between the administrations on whether the resource was owned by the nation or by the developers and was not trusted to put the bill under control. Ministers forward, it is to arouse great opposition among the people and here at a council among us who would like to be treated in a different way by the combined resources of the nation. You ask yourself, " What do I especially want to say goodbye to a mackerel? ' I've heard reasons. A minister who refers to the laws we now enjoy after certain fishing experience and standards have to be checked according to the Icelandic legislation. But we have room to do so in another way and, of course, build it on a legal basis, using such species as mackerel, which came into the waters around 2007, and the product has been increasing in recent years. We have a chance to do this differently. It can be criticized that the last government and the last two sea officials have not done that, it can be criticized. But that is not to say that the present level. A minister cannot do this in any other way. This legislation has a price tag on the mackerel, and the people in the article are actually receiving gift - vacita - because it is a real donor parvoti. We've been discussing the current dinner system and how difficult it is to change it, where people have bought most of their resources or more than 80%, and there's been a very small proportion in the article that has entered and had to be paid for. All right. But the people who are now doing mackerel fishing and are bringing in the salutation for their productions or boats are not paying for it. That's why it's a donor brovot. The next day, they can take this price tag to the labor department and get it into their budget. Is that normal when society is on fire in a conflict strike and there is a struggle for winning, to obtain a salary in three years, perhaps up to 300 of yours. K. In a month, those who are involved in it can get into the hands of tens of millions and even billions of people, as a result of giving the highest gift. Secretary of the sea and his supporters at the council? There are tens of billions of dollars in the past year to be debated about the value of macroil. People have mentioned as many as 150 billion, even less. They just say it's a setup. But what does that mean? This means that people can shop with mackerels between themselves, which means compression. Some will stumble out of the article because they do not have enough standards to keep their mackerels going, they on the smaller boats, and then they're up to one another, going to rent from another. What price tag will be placed on it? You probably can't help it, to live up to what they have before you, as well as pay for a greeting and buy for yourself. There's no need to set things up like this, of course, you're going to move on. It's all about the big cake. It's always about the whole thing. The issue is about how much smaller the proportion of the seawaters to have of the resources we've had at macrol and how much smaller the boats are to get, and then between the size of the tugs and larger vessels that have also provided mackerels on a line and other fishing instruments. That's what the issue is. Of course, there is a suggestion based on justice and reasonableness that needs to be made and maintained. The national relationship between small boat owners has foretold an increased share in total. They've got me holding only about 5% today. They're talking about getting everything up to 18%. Of course, there is no holy number, but I think it is normal for their object to be increased. Then I realize that men decide to hunt a mackerel on a yearly basis and that these three groups may be divided into two groups and that they rent the mackerel out. It could be linked to the price of retails from seawater, so it was observed that if the price in macroil is different, it comes from small boats or the largest projection. Of course, all of us want a mackerel to remain used for human consumption. In the beginning of the years, too much was being done to melt. Happily, the last fishing minister placed fences around it, so the crops went to all respects for human consumption. That is good, and of course we want to make the best use of our resources. Then there's the question with a greeting until he's six. V.E.G. A minister makes it look like it's only six years old, and there's always a way to get it out and change. I see in the media that the marine industry is very unhappy that it should not last longer than six years, of course want to have it even more long, as it is hoped and referred to. But we have nothing to say about how long the mackerel will be in our jurisdiction. We have nothing to do with that. What will we do if the mackerel is removed from our jurisdiction within some years, which, of course, I hope not to happen? Don't those people who now get a labor share in mackerel, saying goodbye, and demand compensation? We know that. We know of shrimping and shell reliefs, and since they've arrived in labor departments, they probably feel that all laws are advising that they have the right to pay, and they probably insist on getting them in the most valuable species, cod. I don't think people can see the end of this. This is a serious matter. And that revenue in the society they're building under there is enormous. With the revenue and property of certain members of the society which will be overnight if this bill is approved, their account will increase and the corresponding it will be. For many, there are tens of millions, hundreds of millions, and billions. It's not a nickel. Calculators can calculate and find out, and that has been done. I don't have those numbers here, and I don't see reason to list them at this point, but I expect they'll be brought up well in the discussion after the case goes into question. As for the smaller boats, I have in my language during the years I've been at Congress always felt the full need to stand with the smaller ones, since more often than not, they are large and strong enough to defend themselves. Although today's government groups have chosen them to strike a armored city, I will not spend my strength in it but will use them to stand with those who are less fortunate. In this regard, I feel very concerned about what will happen to all those who have gone into mackerel fishing on the smaller boats and built up at high cost. It has not been necessary for much of the money to change the equipment of mackerel fishing. It is known to all who know that they are using the same fishing devices as they are used in hairy fishing. It's just good and good. It is a good thing that you can add and do nothing about it. However, a smaller miniboat has taken a great deal of money to board the boats, which may cost up to 5, 6, 7 million. K. They are boats that may be in the price range, which is half the amount of this, or two times the price the boats themselves cost as a private or less business. Thus, a high proportion of the cost of changing a boat is spent in order to go to the mackerel hunt. I don't think the U.S. miniboat owners' union is going to be doing anything to shout, wolf when they say it's going to be a shock to them. A blow to the head. Is that what we want? Aren't we trying to fight for the smaller settlements? And the macro doesn't mean much to many of them, e.g. by tying the summers with fish farming in many parts of the country? I know that this has been important in Snæfells and other places and has done a lot of work to bridge the gap because of the loss of radios. Whatever all of this may be, I agree that certain involvements in macroil will be taken into account in social and job-related measures. I think it's very necessary. This verse just means continued compression in the article. Continued compression with continued tragic consequences for the land and for the spreads of the country. It's the forward party with the highest priority. The minister of Ingi Jóhannsson, who thus purposes to attack those who are unable to carry a hand for their heads and to prevent the mackerel from getting any less useful than the big and strong smaller settlements and smaller deforestations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u55	A respectable president. It would be easy to have many words about the senator's speech, but here, either the mackerel could disappear and the mackerel could still be worth 150 billion. I think it's a bit important for men to wonder who they're going to believe, whether there's a strain that's missing, it can be 0K. worth, or whether a person thinks and can demonstrate the more advanced numbers they contribute to some account. Hv. A senator said it was granted. That's wrong. [[For example: Well?]] First of all, it's a hunting fee, normal, that's what man's done before. Then there are six - year - old pressures that return 1.5 billion annually if this bill becomes a law, i.e. 9 billion over the six years. Because of what? A senator has taken some of the side of the small boats, but when they have received the highest price for the weight of macroil, it has been 70 k. We're suggesting that the fishing rate be more than eight bucks. and pressure of 10, or more than 18 kns. I'm much more concerned that this price is too high for these little boats. But, hey. A senator calls out that someone is being given something. I'm much more concerned that these smaller people don't trust to take over the share and go out where 18 K's. Go to the state. What effect would that have, huh? A senator, if men have to pay such a high price and then decide to sell the share? Then a bigger proportion of them goes to the state. Anyone who buys will likely buy at a lower price if he believes to form a whale. A senator says that the mackerel is disappearing next year, so he does not buy them mackerel divisions at high price. There's uncertainty about the mackerel. This is a different route than temporary intervention without taking additional fees. There's been a completely new route. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u56	Mr. President. Of course, it's in the highest hands. Minister on how he divides the fee between fishing parties. He's got it totally in his hands to have different fees. He can do so in various ways. V.E.G. First, a minister dropped the support small boats had on paying special fishing fees up to 35 tons and then half to 60 tons. He decided to wipe it out. I'm no oracle to say that the mackerel is leaving Icelandic jurisdiction. Anyone watching the seaside knows that the mackerel is not stuck in his hand. That's not what I need to say. There is still no negotiation of the mackerel between countries, and we do not know how long it will be in Icelandic jurisdiction. Why, then, must he be put into this money machine by builders in effect to warm up the article? V.E.G. The minister of this brings back the article, for the less developed ones may not be expected to get part of the catch they have been catching and to have to buy from others. They will not live up to it. A minister has to understand that it is not a natural law that all species have to be tormented in this way. You can rent out a quota to make a fair price and keep it all going. It's been fine so far, except for a disagreement on how the biggest and least are involved. [[The president calls.]] These efforts have been successful and have yielded to those who made a fine profit and who could have paid the nation even more profit with higher fishing costs for the most abundant.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u57	A respectable president. Hv. A senator is at the same barnacle as she was during her last term. An agent's opinion said that at least under 2011 there was a law in the country that made the government obligated to share a mackerel. Firing. This was not the case at the time. That opinion appeared last summer. This bill includes answering, doing the law. Then you cannot come up here over and over again, arguing that a minor act in the country is the best run and can return as much as possible and then claim, in the next statement, that there is something inconsistencies to be used. It is the same in Icelandic tax laws as paybacks. Everyone's sitting at the same table. And say that it needs to be used against small boats, which themselves claim to be making the most money, which is the right thing to do. Some in this article have the most profitable fish in Iceland, others very sad. You can't come up here and talk about things like they're black or white. Happily, there is much greater variety, and it is what we need to be assured of. We must walk with reasonableness. We must abide by the law of the land, and we must guard our own limits. It's necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u58	Mr. President. Speaking of equalities, we live in income tax laws in the country where there is a step - by - step tax system, the highest. Minister, step-by-step tax system. Isn't that equal, this step-by-step tax system? Yes, at least there has been no evidence that it is not. Therefore, I believe that in the same way, step-seat exchange can be extended at hunting fees, according to different types of fishing. It's quite possible. V.E.G. A minister knows. Speaking of those who are in need and who are simply driven to greet mackerel because of the opinion of the Allied agent, it's amazing. Ministers, come up with that argument. We have also received an opinion, to form with former Supreme Court attorney Magnús Thoroddsenur and others who say that governments can change the distribution of resources and change the control of fishing and that it is in the hands of the government to do so. Are we really in such a state that we are stuck with a saying system that has become a mess and continues to grow and grow, and no politician has the courage to change the laws that change the system? What kind of shit is this in the highest part of the world? Minister? Aren't we the lawgiver here? Has the Lawgiver's hands been bound so far for ages that there is no theoretical possibility for any government to change the system? Of course, this government is trying to put this in the long run, so the same government needs to be in power for perhaps three terms in order to have a chance to change the quota system. [[The president calls.]] Is that the kind of system we want? Not me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A fine speech for Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir. In some ways I can agree with her. Hv. A senator makes a little out of the fact that there's something being handed out to builders, that people are being tormented. She talks about this gift system. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: How would she have been? How would she want this? Would she have wanted to make this up? Got it. A senator is not enough to pay 10 k. An additional charge per kilogram for six years - or a god knows how long it will be - in addition to the calculated fishing fee? Hv. A senator has the best interests of small boat owners, she has always done so, so I ask: " How does she feel at first that a small boat owner pays for this additional fee? Small boats are expected to get 5%, but it suggests that they will be up to 18%. What would that be? A senator would do so if the mackerel were to just behave so as not to reach the shores of the land and be caught only by the depths where the big ships caught him? These 150 billion - would it be acceptable for society to become of that value?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u60	Mr. President. I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't. A senator will control how the mackerel behaves in the next few years. They just have to deal with it any way they're gonna be. Of course, those fish who have a chance to hunt and if the mackerel disappeared from the shores of the country and were farther away, and the open sea ships could only reach him, of course, they would catch him, that says themselves. That's why I don't think we're supposed to push it down like this and put a price tag on resources, because it's just gonna have to be seen how the mackerel behavior, which has reached the coast of Iceland in recent years, will follow. I've talked about the rent-in-a-peaking warrants of the mackerel, of course, in terms of improvement, and looking for fishing in the past few years to take account of the distribution and divide the tenant into perhaps three pieces. I didn't say that the proposal for small boats is 18%. I referred to a national relationship between small boat owners in that regard. Of course, there is a need for harmony and agreement, as in all things. But 10 K. - 1.5 billion is not large, given the total worth of macroil last year. That's a very small amount, a small price for permanently acquiring this quota. Hv. A senator knows well how to develop. What is a permanent pound of cod today? How much is it by 10 k? on a kilo of mackerel? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u61	A respectable president. I'll just admit I don't agree. Senator on the subject of some form of possession. The people on the fish in the sea. Actually, I thought we agreed on that. There's nothing here for humans. I don't think men are having something, it's temporary until six. I don't think it's something that's about to be acquired. I think of this as a price. I think it's a resource fee. Well, at least not at all. A senator may not find 1.5 billion high that amount can be high when you share it with those who have to pay it. I know that for floating freezer houses or for big companies that extract both from fishing and from processing, the costs of fishing and processing are shared. But those ships that are only fishing pay 18 bucks. For fish, which may be 540. For the markets, it's official prices. I don't blame them for money. Now, about not losing these assets, I'm all for having all the fleas and letting the little boatboat hunt, maybe I'd have liked to have it more than 5%. But the ocean fleet hunts from Greenland to Norway and into the Faeroe Islands. It hunts in the North Seas, so as we put more on the small boat fleet, we are more likely to lose certain valuables. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u62	Mr. President. Companies in the seas rented to form mackerel from the Faeroe Islands in 90 k. In 2013. Of course, there's a lot of difference between the sector and the rest, in the major companies and in the smaller types, that says itself. That's why I'm talking about doing a three-point cut like the income tax system in the mackerel. It's not like you're even to pay 10 k. for the possession of brovita, it's a propofol, just as humans have possession protocols in the bodyfish system and in the fishing system today. Hv. A senator tells us that the nation has an armament. Can the people take something in their hands and make up the amount of money that the people will make? I don't think so. That's why it's so showy to talk about this as the property of the whole nation when few people are thus given a box and have to pay some legal fee for 10 k. Of course, such measures should not take place. It's not justice. You can continue to calm down and make money on mackerel and benefit from the way you are supposed to do in normal companies and fishing and processing and not take more than they can handle. Of course, men are supposed to have the resources they're going to do for themselves, but they don't have enough resources to get out of renting them. Therefore, I think it is possible to do this more fairly and to make the nation more content. [[The president calls.]] This is to pour oil on the fire in regard to the criticism of the eating system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u63	V.E.G. President. I recommend here for bill on deck. 1172, bill to legalize the law of law No. 78/2002, for the subsidies of house - to - house heating costs, with subsequent changes. The bill suggests that from 2016 onward, subsidies will ensure that the transfer and distribution of electrical energy to the maintenance of an apartment building will be fully subsidized by those who cannot have the full resources of aquifers. The bill builds, among other things, in a report by the staff on changes in house - to - house subsidies from December 2011. That team was appointed representatives from the Ministry of Industrial Affairs, the Ministry of Financial Affairs, the Coalition of rurality in cold areas, Rark and the Energy Company of the West. The reasons for this bill are better known than they have to be said, especially in this room, since energy costs are significantly different and have increased. On the one hand, the 10% non-heating population has a much higher cost of house warming and has to use electrical heating for housing and, on the other, the distribution cost of electricity is considerably higher in rural areas than in urban areas. In recent years, the government has tried to match both of these factors with special subsidies determined on the basis of special legal requirements. Is the Law No. 78/2002, for the subsidies of house - to - house heating costs, measured for subsidies in building an apartment house with those who cannot afford full heating. However, it is law No. 98/2004, on the interpolation costs of electrical energy distribution, the aim is to contribute to the equivalent of the cost of electricity distribution in urban and rural areas. By recording the equation of electrical energy, compare laws on changing law No. 98/2004, which was approved at the General Assembly of March 3, provides the full balance of costs for the distribution of electricity for public users in rural areas and urban areas starting in 2016. It remains to ensure that the transfer and distribution of electricity to build an apartment building will be fully subsidized. With a bill this, it's suggested. This proposal, as previously indicated in the December 2011 work force report on changes in house - to - house subsidies, as well as the bill of the subject submitted to the 141th legislation Council. There is no doubt that the high cost of house warming of about 10% of the country's population has contributed to theisation of disease and has weakened the community. In fact, this heavy cost - making team is a reduced standard of living, writing because people live in these areas. So this large urbanity is not about national status against the capital area, since in many lands operating is an inexpensive geothermal host. It's more about an equation of habitat conditions in general and the equation of rural pals to grow and thrive. This has often been the case in the council, and it has been generally acceptable to balance the cost of house - to - house warming between countries. So I have hoped that solidarity can be achieved through this hearing at the General Assembly. The subject of the bill is relatively simple and is in the bill followed by the motion proposed by the above - mentioned staff, i.e. according to law No. 78/2002 will allow transport of electrical energy for housing of apartment housing to be fully supplied. The bill was employed by the Ministry in cooperation with the Power Institute, and it was proposed that the bill be introduced to the local community in cold areas. The bill will discuss its effect by law, both in general in electricity users and in government funds. The budget now covers a total of 1,282 billion. a k in direct subsidies on transport and distribution of electrical energy to house heating, or about 80% at the cost of population transport and distribution of electricity. To finance 100% subsidies for the distribution and transport of electricity to house heating, as directed by the bill, the subsidies would have to be increased by 215 million. K. By current status or by 1,497 million. K. If the bill of the law varies from 2016 to the year 2016, additional contributions will be made to the budget on the above. V.E.G. President. I believe with the bill this is taking an important step in balance of national energy costs and thereby setting conditions according to the Government Convention and also in line with the proposals of the above report. So I believe that this is a matter we should be able to achieve a solid solidarity in the General Assembly. I suggest that the bill be following this discussion. The pro board and the 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u64	V.E.G. President. I'm glad this bill is in place, and I promise that within the employment committee, the committee on this case, and I'm sitting in it, I will give it a lot of emphasis that we work it fast and well, and we'll finish it before the Senate closes May. V.E.G. A minister could handle the work that began in the last government by order of a group of workers who covered these matters and gave the suggestions as discussed here. I would like to say that I also think it to follow, and ministers in the present government should do it more often, and indeed all of us, to take what has been done well in the past and to continue with it as this is doing. The work of this began in the last government, although we have not been able to complete the case, I remind you, for the first time in 10 or 12 years, was the time when money was raised to subsidies by some 230 million. K., if I remember correctly. I welcome the bill that has been given here and the way it goes to the full equation, yet it remains very much between the cold areas and then in many places in the country's warm - ups. But the reason I'm coming back to the highest level. Minister is only what the Ministry's review says. It's 250 million short. K. ... 215 million. K. [[Up to 215 million. K.]] I hope I wasn't talking about billions. I'm asking the highest. Minister: How should this be financed? How will it be financed in the next budget? Another bill we were discussing contained about 220 million. K. It reminds me that, which was supposed to fall down because we've put the cost on other users to subsidize rural areas. Is it not certain that some of that money will come directly from the money fund, that the cost will not be raised for more than has been done? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u65	A respectable president. First about a word or two. The senator that we will continue our work here, which began in the past government and with the encouragement to do and take what is good, I can totally agree with him. I think during the last term, there was a very cross-cutting agreement in this matter between the existing government position and the administrative board on how to handle these issues. That is why I think and expect that these matters can be completed in this way. About what? The senator for the financing stands to bring the money out of the state fund. Since 2016, the arrangement will go into effect and will be set up by my Ministry as a proposal to bring money directly from the state fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u66	V.E.G. President. I didn't see a reason to come up to another answer because it was the highest. A minister made a clear answer to my question, and I was impressed with it. I agree with what the Minister said, that money, the $215 million. K. which is missing for going to this equation should come directly from the state's budget. That's why I'm happy, and I agree. But I might not have agreed that if people had had any idea of laying further spells on such residents as urban areas, they would have paid off the expense of the rural area. There I witness to the words I have had of the matter and of the motions I have made. paritaprevir Lilja Magnúsdóttir Magnneydottir and I made a bill about the equal cost of a rural town that has become legal. I would like to re-enact from my short answer at the outset and testify that this work began in the last government by order of a task force appointed to representatives of the rural community in cold areas i.e. In rural areas, where people are paying for high house warming costs for Rark and the Energy Farms of the West. I rejoice that this matter remains to be continued, and it is to be remembered that while we share views on political parties and support or oppose governments, we can continue with good business, which has been handled by the executive authority that makes these suggestions possible. That's why I'm glad again that this bill has been released and that we're going to go to this very important equation. You can also say that it's a role model, and you could do more because the bill finally has an Iceland card that has blue and green dots on the map to mark hot heat cells and that's where direct electric heating is, which may be very symbolic. This process is passed through and shown the development of energy prices, etc. There is no need to have many words about that, except for freezing. 1 in the chart on page 20. An example of the cost of over 180 square feet [180 square m] alone is 10. The energy use for heating is 38,400 kilowatts, and then we see that in Richard's urban population, with a new system of changes made in January or February, that took effect this year, house - to - house heating costs for this particular house with this specific amount of energy cost of less than 208 p.m. are estimated. K. The same price is at Richard's in rural areas after the change and the same with the Energy Farm in urban areas and rural areas. But when we go left to right by the table, we reach the capital, where the comparable cost of heating up shelters is 113 you. K, or less than half as low as it will be in these areas. In fact, expensive heat plants, which are expected to be new heat plants, which have to pay off stock costs, etc. or you may not have as much or less hot water as you know an example. K. The following is an example of the annual annual cost of ice cream. K. ... andSeyenned and Cape where he is 185 Thoust. K. Finally, the cost is 164 of the Western Islands. K. With this list, we can see how greatly the difference is. Therefore, it should be welcomed that our scientists, executives, and pioneers have gained better control of their drills by hot water. We have found water in places where we once thought no hot water was found and built there, although at first they are expensive. Hopefully, this is because there are subsidies, research, and so on. But, of course, there's a huge difference. The difference will never be as complete, but it is said that the cost between urban and rural areas in the Rariss and Orcs'most needed energy area will be equal. You don't have to put up a word on this subject when you bring up a bill as comfortable as I think it will be, or I'm pretty sure it will be. But I'd like to say about research in other areas and looking for hot water, it's certainly a very good country if we find hot water, to mention here what was suggested in the group's proposals, i.e. It was suggested that, if necessary, an extension of stock development would be extended for up to 12 years. It was suggestions that came from the Committee, and if I recall, we had a bill on the job committee at the end of the last term, although I don't remember exactly what it was, it doesn't matter, but the committee took up the job and changed it immediately. Hopefully, it has encouraged research and after the experiences of the drills and the search for hot water, which will hopefully mean a heat supply if water is found, where the founding industry for up to twelve years instead of eight has much to say in these materials. There is no need to comment extensively on this matter and discuss it here with 1st. But as I have said before, let men come up, and follow their own counsel, and discuss this matter, and the benefits of it, and the faults thereof, if there be any, which is guide unto the committee. But at first glance I think it's a very good thing, and if I may now be somewhat humorous in the rest, this is a good inheritance from the last government to this government that will follow it and finish it. It would be good if this was done in more ways.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u67	Madam President. I have to agree with what has been said here and thank you for the fact that the bill has been presented. Of course, I couldn't help but mention the fact that we left greens had a lot to do with the budget now and last, and then we had thought it was one of the priorities to settle down. We've talked a great deal about how the council is and how to live, not just in winter, but many times before. The expense of building warm - ups in cold areas is one of the really important things, and we, as they have tried or lived, know that it is not the luxury of turning away from the shower and letting the hot water flow for a very long time or that everyone can finish showering in the same hour. That is why this is one of the things that are important to us, and we can agree on them. In fact, I have to agree that I am very happy to work, according to the suggestions given by the staff in their 2011 December report, where I was now expected to be paid. It was decided not to do so, and it could be asked, "Why not? " We wondered earlier about the subject cited earlier, so why, for example, the industry was not one of those involved in electricity costs at rural areas, etc., why would it not be decided to make such a payment? I don't think I misunderstood what the talk presented. paritaprevir Ásmundur, Einar of Daðason, who had a place to speak at the highest. Last February, a minister, quoted a convention of the Annexe Party and said, by permission of the president: A special equation that will be used to cover housing costs and transport costs for electricity would be determined by equalizing the cost of domestic warming at a national level. It was then able to enter the government's collaborative declaration of cooperation, saying why. Senator. I think it sounds a little special, considering it's so decided to go somewhere else. So I ask: Why? But, of course, it's important that we find our way into the collaboration, says here, I quote that. A senator. This type of house warming is, of course, very expensive and takes much of the provisions. That is why it is good to cut back. Here, only in 2007 did history tell you how many homes have been strengthened for improved isolation and thermo-pumping preparation, 300 of which are. The law on the change in house - to - house warming costs is traced to say that the founding industry has been extended to 12 years, so everything matters, and is really very positive. I was thinking about this with the financing because we're dealing with a state-of-the-art budget program that will apply over the next four years. The bill has been passed through the administration classes and the government, but it is not for such an increase in budgets or in a four-year budget. Why is this not done when this is ahead of the other? Of course, I hope that things will work out and do the best I can. A minister of that very strongly. I think what the Ministry of finance is critical here, this clear change in state's obligation to cover house warming, is that there is no room priority. The Ministry of finance criticizes that this should pass through, i.e. to automatically subsidize the system. However, the Ministry of finance wants to make a decision from year to year in making budgets and in some way other than this, and that there is a specific discussion to be made. I support, however, that this will be permanent and that each need comes along, and this will flow in. I wonder why it's this way, but I'm not going to extend the discussion. I'm just happy that the bill is on its way, and I'm supporting the minister to the success of the bill. I wondered, though, about the collaboratorial agreement or the declaration, as this is specifically indicated and as if it were a special equation payment on which it is decided not to do here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u68	V.E.G. President. It was a pleasure to receive this matter into the council, and it seems that there is a very general agreement to achieve it here. The underlying issues have come to light, and, of course, they have had a long turn of events, including some of them. with a group of people who worked on the case and gave suggestions in a 2011 report. What a disappointment it was when the steps were taken to follow these proposals after we did not fully cover the cost of house warming and the total charge of electricity! There was also a disagreement on one of the proposals made by the Committee about who should pay the equation. It was credible that the tax paid should not include the big industry and thus light more on the households, a lower equation rate on them, as the committee had suggested. I think we'll let it lie between parts. As I understand this bill, it's the addition required to achieve a full equation of 215 billion. K. And it came to pass in the next year, and I heard that it must come forth from the treasure of the kingdom, namely, To finance the cost, further equations will not be paid. During the last fall, the Conspiracy set out and proposed a synopsis proposal for emergency action in rural areas. It was as if we had sat down and said aloud and stressed that there was no equal class in Iceland if he did not emphasize the equation and equality between the settlements, between the settlements of the country and the capital area. Our proposal included 11 points. This scene is one of the people we suggested. Now you can cross it. All I want to do is call attention to other factors that are important to follow along and to ensure that they will continue to enjoy themselves. Some of them are in a process of rejoicing; others are shorter. First of all, our proposal to use the methodology for a large part of the country where there had been much work and was a transpolitian solidarity was discussed. Unsoundness was thrown off the board during a administrative transition, but they have gradually been able to find their way back to the table because, like many other things that happened during the transition, to realize that much of the work that had been done had been done in quite good terms, and the methodology had also been very well established. The work is to return to the table so that those in charge of the matter, i.e. Homes, opportunities to cover parish programmes and how funds are distributed in the respective areas. Second, transportation issues were discussed. There's not much to say as long as we haven't seen a new transport plan, but unfortunately, I don't think that there's much new work to be done on transport this year. Third, the fishing price was discussed and the coastal areas were allowed to share that income. This has been discussed many times, and another member of the board of directors at least has had these ideas too. When we discuss the fishing fee, it is important that this possibility be discussed. The fourth team was about indiscriminate legislation for new investors. V.E.G. The minister of industrial affairs has a case for the treatment and indeed the council at the moment, but it was emphasized in our suggestion that the legislation would be considered specifically for the construction of the country, or the region, as we say. Then comes the fifth point, which is the point here for discussion, i.e. the amount of house warming required and the proposals submitted by the 2011 work force. Sixth, there are suggestions for setting up an apartment loan fund, to immediately use damaged housing. I don't think much has happened to me. Seven: There is a suggestion that rural society will be enabled to get involved with tourists to move them, especially in the country, to create sails as it is called, i.e. creating an exciting offer for tourists in the rural areas. Of course, this is extremely important. There are many areas that need attention. I have to say it's the highest. Ministers and government groups have been in trouble with the natural pass, but based on the revenues produced by tourism and its importance for the national setting at the moment, I think that men should first set out funds to prepare for the restitution of the tourist attractions that most need to be corrected. At the same time, it is very important to follow the possibility of distribution of tourists, if you can put it that way, work to make it possible for tourists to go elsewhere and improve their ministry in the country. Actually, this has been true. I was at a meeting at a work agency where there was a job rating in Iceland for the next two years, 2015•2017. It came as a surprise to me that the increase in labor, i.e. the number of people who work, were about 2,700 people last year, and 96% were in travel service. During the discussions at that meeting, it was clear that the increase in tourism must take place in the country. This calls for employment policy and also for increased education in the tourism industry, and this education needs to take place in the country, to ensure that the relevant people work there, building both educational and knowledge and the quality of tourism in the country. Our eighth point was the development of high - speed connections and optic cables across the country. That work is in full swing. I know why. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson has led them to work, and promises have been made of the first practical act. It should be welcomed, and we will support further building in this regard. The ninth joint is directly involved in this case, which is electrical security. There are a number of areas in the country where electronic energy is not available. For example, Westerns have been repeatedly mentioned in this context. There are other locations where non-ringing connections are available, and if power goes off, it may take a long time to restore it. I know it's being done, but how fast it goes, I don't have the latest news. 10th, that is the equation of transport costs. Despite the weakened financial standing of the post - collapse state, equal transport costs were finally set up, but they need to be developed more funding or that system. Finally, it is a general requirement that we be careful about national education as well as for the safety of patients and health quality of the country. But there is a flash on the air, especially when it comes to education. Some of the regional schools are in great danger not only because of reduced education but also because of the changes that are taking place at 25 years of age and older in education. The bill presented here is of utmost importance based on so - called cold areas, which are mainly in East East, Snowstones, and West, as presented here. This has been the case for many years and has paid enormous cost of house - to - house warming. The same is true of virtually all the settlements on the West, either of which fire stations, even with oil or with electricity for which they have paid enormous amounts of money. In fact, I encourage the Minister and the General to do this so that we will follow through and we may have to complete these duties. It's interesting to review the financial background. I hope it doesn't interfere with the progress of the case. This figure is said to be 215 million. K. During 2016 and this has been noted earlier in the discussion, but this is not expected in a budget or in a recent four-year financial programme. All I trust is that it will be corrected so as not to be used for it. Of course, financial resources are always more preeminent when they have to come from the Council, to ensure that they will be inside next year so that promises and promises made by this law will be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u69	Madam President. I must, like other senators who have spoken before, especially rejoice that this matter has been raised and rejoices to the highest degree. It's been recommended by the Minister of Industrial Affairs. This case is directly followed by our approval since March 3, 2015, where we took the step of equal payment in transport and distribution of electricity between rural and urban areas, one of these, in the large context, small areas of so much importance for the country. This is based on years of struggle and years of hard work. I would especially like to mention the organization of fellow rural areas in cold areas, a job assigned to the mayor of the town of Snæfellsville, Kristinn Jónasson. I'm going to review it here that the first fall I sat on a budget committee, and we received the local government, which made comments and presented their views of the available budgeted bill at that time, stood out of that many of these sentences: It is to deliver the bill delivered by Einar Guðfinnsson Godfinsson through an equal housekeeping cost. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Our current president. At that time, the Generals had the ideal period ahead of them, along with other billings on equal house - to - house expenses, so many have struggled to take these steps. I'd especially like to review these views of the rural society and the financiers that fall. In other words, with this bill's approval, the price for electricity is even stronger than ever. Now the cost of transport is not to interfere with it anymore. Of course, the debate over various energy costs and the circumstances of the population is aroused. No wonder we need to deal with that discussion! However, there is much that can be done to reduce energy prices and energy costs. First, for the population, a more practical purchase of electricity can be done. There have been measures in terms of subsidies, reducing domestic energy costs, so many more resources exist, but it does not completely run away from us these differences that occur between land areas when these have gone into effect and will be just other discussions and other projects to deal with them. It can also be said that the urge to seek long - term more efficient energy is not to be numbed, such as using aquifers or finding other sources of energy to heat housing. There is an extremely fine line between these sources of heat in the areas in which heat is currently building heat plants are very expensive. Although we do not minimize the change that took place here during the first term, about 12 years of contributions to support such heat - supply systems, the costs of the population in the areas now laying such heat reserves are extremely high and possibly may somehow result in the death of involvement. It is also important that we do not lose sight of how we want to use the resources we have in our country and to ensure participation in their use and new building of their heat plants. In this bill, I welcome special regulations about the use of the word "fuels" rather than "oil." I think it's a long time change because such a thing simply means that there are many more sources of energy, even in Iceland, but only oil, hot water, and electricity. I'd like to mention the drift. I've been in a community home in a country where the beaches were filled with wood, but the social home was cold and ill - fed because it was expensive to swallow it. In fact, the energy lay a few meters away from the social home. Following this step, you might think of another type of assignment, an incentive to build up such methods of energy, whether you are discussing such things with or with others or with such things. Then there's one thing I like to remind you - maybe I'm starting to rust in numbers, and I'm just gonna keep my mind on what I'm going to say here. I hope, Madam President, I'm allowed to mention the word ugliness in a speech chair at the General Assembly, but then we're talking about other sources of energy that the countryside can use. With simple equipment, a pool that can be dissolved from a dumpsite can be used in 40 cow ruts, which could give energy value equivalent to 4,000,66,000 gallons (U.S.) of oil. This is an enormous amount of energy that, in simple equipment, could be used to warm water and thus live as a system for heating up the town. Although we will succeed in our efforts, we face many other opportunities and many other challenges. I'm not gonna give this speech any longer. We on a job board review the reviews and viewpoints that are presented in the case from the source. Once again, I say, I'm especially glad we're getting this phase. It is of utmost importance in many areas of the country, and it is a fine example of how the government approaches its task in reaching the best environment in the country. Hv. True, a senator who spoke before me, Guðbjartur - fearing Hannesson, discussed a number of other factors and mails that we can undoubtedly agree on the contrary, on the contrary, in this chair that we need to get caught, but here is a shelf less than one milestone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u70	Madam President. We'll discuss the equation of the country's house - to - house heating costs. I can, just like the rest of us. Councilmen, rejoice that the bill has been submitted and has been made up, or proposed by the highest degree. Minister, that full subsidence is due to transport and distribution of electrical energy for housing housing to those who are not able to pay full heat. That certainly is a great and good step. As noted by whiskers. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson has not yet reached the end of the road regarding the smooth house - to - house expenses of all the people of the country. That task awaits us, and we must continue to work at getting that equation. There is a huge difference between the interest rates of farms, depending on where they live. We had discussed some of the equations of electricity distribution. Then we set it up, me and what. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, like a dog. A senator came in, that big corporations would be included in that equation. This was not achieved and was merely an equation within the network, and I think that was a bad result. Here it is suggested that members of the system do not continue to be equal in terms of subsidies on the house - to - house heating costs for moving from those who are unable to use direct heat but have telecommunications - that the government fund comes in and the highest level. A minister has announced that it will be financed and assured that this will be contributed to the next budget. It's certainly a stage that I think we'll try to get as fast through the council as we can. The case goes to a professional committee where we may put this on a list of priorities, and I believe in only a transnational agreement that it will be done. I'm just thinking about the board that's set up as a package and I have to admit that I haven't had enough time to consider it as such. I can see that the comparison is between various places, whether the energy room is Rark, the energy plant, or the heat source, compared with the specific energy consumption, so that the comparison between the two is totally correct. But they only suggest the figures shown here, that on Isafjordur, after this change, a new system, at a value of 180,000. burning 180 square feet [180 square meters] in accordance with certain energy consumption, and reducing over 213,000 bucks, that's a considerable amount of money, the decrease in the amount. Although a man is not supposed to be myself on the General's speaking chair, I have previously mentioned that I live in the South Valley and in a villa. On a yearly basis, $300,000 will be paid. To swallow it, and yet it's less than the 180 square - square - foot [180 square m] house there as a reference. I think it's a little bit of an illusion if you see what it takes to warm up the house. A scene of 100 square feet [100 square meters] in an apartment, a 300 - square - foot [180 square m] group house, and a 180 - square - foot [180 square m] town is drawn up. Unfortunately, this is not the reality of the cold areas. The comparison remains, for which comparable use is being made between Reykjavík and these places in the country of energy use during kilowatt hours. I want to express my joy that on this fine day - the former president of Iceland, Vigdís Finnbogadóttir, on her birthday, she's 85 years old, I'm taking the opportunity to congratulate her with the day - to produce a bill from the government that can be welcomed. This did not apply to the bill that was brought before, but it is good that the day can be completed with this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u71	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the Minister especially this bill. I rejoice and am proud that these two groups will fulfill their campaign promise to level the full cost of house - to - house warming on the land. Thus, if I quote the bill, it says that by recording an equation of electrical energy, the law on changing the law of No. 98/2004, which was approved at the General Assembly of March 3, 2015, is fully equal to the costs of the distribution of electricity for general use in rural and urban areas starting in 2016. It remains to ensure that the transfer and distribution of electrical energy to build an apartment building will be fully overreached. This bill suggests it. I'm glad you're here. It is a beautiful bill with beautiful pictures of the land in color and good tablets and charts. There is no question that the huge house - warm cost of about 10% of the country's population has contributed to the development of disease and weakened communities. In fact, the heavy cost of spending is reduced standard of living, and people are writing very much of it to live in these areas. This settlement is not about national status against the capital area, for in many lands operating is inexpensive. It's more about an equation of habitat conditions in general and the equation on the possibilities of rural society to grow and thrive, as it says here. Just as in the optics, where we plan to match conditions in people wherever they live, we are going to do both this bill for house warming and what we are going to do in the communication business to equal people's possibilities. The bill also states: Thus, it is estimated that by means of the bill, there will be an increase of 215 million rents to house warming. K. The regulations of the bill are expected to be carried out on January 1, 2016. Furthermore, I'm going to celebrate the review of the Ministry of Financial Affairs here, that under current law, there has been scope for house warming to this level of funding for the General Assembly at this time. The bill suggests a change in the state's duties to clear up house warming, not presupposed to the extent of legal resources, so that the subsidies will automatically be made to any cost-change in electrical distribution without the need to make a special decision on the budget. So we do not need to be confident that a financial committee will bring money. It's supposed to be a celebration. Finally, I welcome the bill again, and I am proud that these two groups will live on another campaign promise.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u72	V.E.G. President. I come up here to celebrate, as my friends have done. This is a big stage we're getting ready to settle on land. As we know, the cost of energy between land areas has been quite different and is known by many. I don't have to trace the story more than I've been doing, and I'm not going to be extending the discussion, but it's nice to tell what a real thing it was that my country moved to the head, saw how easy everything was there, and there was a big difference in all the accounts about working at a house. He was happy to pay low bills on house - to - house expenses, but he found that he had been paying for all the shares. Yet he was paying less than for his house in his hometown. This is an example of how things really are. How glad we are that we are taking that step! Once we have taken a firm step toward the full equation of electricity emissions by recording an equation of the electricity that goes to the distribution sector. This bill outlines the proposals proposed in the 2011 Workgroup report. There's a long process behind which I hope, and I firmly believe that we're going to end it and agree to make better living conditions in this country. I look forward to that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u73	A respectable president. I want to thank you for the discussion that has taken place. It confirms what I thought and hoped, that this case could have a broad political convergence. I don't have much to add, but I'd like to know that, as I said in answer to the question, the budget and the financial agenda. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, this cost will be expected in my Ministry's budget for the next year, as this cost is expected from next year and not this year. Initiality was to do this in two steps, i.e. I was going to make a pact proposal to get the council's stand on these issues, but after including. we made the decision in the government to do this one step, to present the bill, and it will, of course, be changed to the long-term financial programme to treat the council accordingly. I wanted to make it happen and thank you again for the discussion. I hope we can handle this from the council in peace soon enough.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u74	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a change in the law of restaurants, restaurants and entertainment, No. 85/2007, on deck. 1178, No. 704. The bill is made up of a staff of my roads, industrial and commercial ministers, but the group is still working and will continue to work on simple and reforms on these laws, including Based on a report prepared and returned to me last May 2014, on a simple work environment and routine for tourism. With the bill, the project is intended to explain the classification of lodging sites and to establish the home-registered resources for people who are already renting out their homes to tourists from part of the year. So that the unauthorized and unregistered beds will be reduced, which is, in fact, The purpose of the bill, along with the simple application procedure. In addition, concomitant simplicity may be expected to reduce long-term black employment activities. The changes the bill will tell you are as follows: A revised definition of home-institution. The bill suggests an dilation of a category of homemaking, a category I in accordance with current law, defined as a room in the landlord's home for remuneration. The bill assumes that individuals, couples, or partners will be allowed to operate locally if they have enrolled in the county's website at the local site and paid a registration fee of about 8 you. K. Thus, these persons are not allowed to enter into a category of homemaking and are not permitted by the applicants in any other category. The requirements for burns should also be met as per regulation, such as the number of smoke sensors and other burns. The expansion of homemaking is further in that it is now permitted to rent out its legal home as well as one other property owned by the individual. They meet individuals who want to rent out their summer house or a vacation apartment. On the contrary, those registered must only be allowed to rent out the relevant assets for eight weeks in total each year for eight weeks. This newer order is an attempt to make it easier for individuals to rent out their home part of the year, and so is the goal of clearly understanding between such individuals and the persons or lawyers who have their main activities over the year and should have a permit to stay in classes II, III, or IV. They include in-house activities, including homemaking, commitment and pollution Marketing Authorisation, No. 7/1998, therefore it will still be necessary to obtain a HCP from a health care provider in the affected area. The bill disproportionates the values of the criteria and the separations between classes based on the opening time of restaurants until the end of the day. 23rd This change is caused by a number of problems that arise when large - scale restaurants desire to keep their kitchen open longer than at the end of the day. 23rd Such restaurants have all needed licenses in Class III which are thought of for extensive restaurants and clubs. By taking away the time set, it is placed in the hands of a permit club and local client to determine whether the activity of restaurants is considerable or limited. Another change in the bill is that envelopes will be united. In view of the government's aims for simple regulations, the bill consists of a unit of information on local society and construction agents at the end of the work of a construction officer within the community, and it seems reasonable that from the community there is only one authority. According to the bill, the law is already valid, but according to temporary requirements, the given license for homemaking in category I shall maintain its value until a manual renewal. The objective of the bill is to respond to the development of a future and unauthorized operation. In other words, we are acknowledging the reality of what we know with improved technology and the growth of beds on so - called Airbnb pages and the sort of websites where people have registered their homes and have complained very much that the permit is complex, which has prevented people from writing their lodgings, as we are hoping to do with this. It is also the goal of simplifying the principle, such as a reduction in narratives and a special registration procedure instead of a license team for a local group. Further action in behalf of the simplified rules on restaurants, accommodations, and entertainment will be followed in months to come, and the group mentioned at the outset will continue this work. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Promissary committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u75	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for the story. There are some things I'm wondering here and I'm going to go better after, both good and just as worried about what I'm worried about. I wanted to, because we're trying to simplify the system, wondering a question. In 1st. These include the home, the home, and one other property owned by people. I have an apartment in Reykjavík and a home in the north, and I can rent this apartment for eight weeks. It is designed to resist, and I support it, that apartments are rented out without permission, which is all over. Still, I wondered how we can guarantee the eight weeks. How can a businessman or someone else make sure I don't rent my apartment all summer? How are we going to get our hands on this? It is one thing to say and another to enforce it, especially in the capital area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u76	A respectable president. A businessman is expected to monitor this and after police events. This will be monitored as the premises are recorded and these persons have tools to monitor the duration as well as the information provided by the tax manager. That's how this surveillance is supposed to be. As mentioned in my case earlier, this is an attempt to control this operation, which is now completely submerged, as it were. If, in the light of experience, it is found that monitoring is lacking, if necessary, we will do so according to what is available. But this is going to be the first thing to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u77	Madam President. That's exactly what this is all about. It's a good purpose, but it's a different one. What motivates me to register my apartment for rent and pay 8,000 dollars. a fee instead of continuing, as many do today, to rent my house out without asking a king or a priest? I wondered how we get people to sign up, what they are to push them into. I don't really feel anything is going on in the bill that directly drives people to sign up. There is something else I wanted to ask the highest. Minister through, it's in the 5th paragraph. About apartments. There's a little time left, but I might be better able to bring it into my talk afterwards, but it's about a property house. I'm worried about that, although referred to here at 27. g., that someone can rent his apartment, and that someone may not share in the house - to - house work, such as cleaning, or anything that often divides residents in apartment homes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u78	A respectable president. First, about the accommodations we're going to get around here. The idea is that for ordinary people renting their house out when they go on vacation or Christmas vacation, or the cottage - it's supposed to be. For those who rent out their possessions for a long time, and the senator referred to the apartment law, it will be governed by the law. If the nature of the operation changes, when the person takes advantage of his property and starts renting it to tourists or others, it will go through with apartment law. Then the owner must seek the approval of all owners in the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u79	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct changes in restaurants, restaurants, and entertainment. What's interesting, when you read the bill, is that it's mainly a matter of simplifying the system and simplifying the registration process and reducing the administrative affairs around it, which in itself is very important. I wanted to ask the highest. Minister after that. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said: How can we be sure that this will help reduce black employment, that must also be our goal, and how can we make sure that there will be observation in such places? Third, I'm concerned about the insurance insurance of those private partners, if they don't have to be online to hire persons with these agents if they're disloyal. There's no bail on the landlord, is there? I'm asking because I just don't know what it is. I think it's extremely important, in competition with people coming in and renting out their apartments, that it's clear that insurance isn't included.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u80	A respectable president. As I said before, in answer to what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, will be monitored so that the businessman will take it and information will be obtained through their registration system and through tax information. How can we be sure that humans will register? This is indicated as an incentive for these activities to surface. We've heard of it, and travel parties too, that people want to be on the right side of the law in this. Although they make more money each year by renting out their apartment houses, they do not want to become criminals. We believe that there we will reach at least a good part of this operation. [[The president calls.]] In terms of insurance, this is not a job, so you don't have insurance that goes and does business. I encourage the committee to see if there's anything we need to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u81	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer. I'd like to follow it more closely because I'm seeing that the head of the employment committee is here, but this committee gives further thought. What a fine price to pay is that it is easier to register, that the exhortation is in that direction. I think it's really important, and I hope it's that way. But there must also be a possibility of following things along. What kind of situation are we offering, or are there rules? Can men rent out anything just by documenting it online? As I told you earlier, it also needs to be clear which rights are involved in renting from the relevant organisations and which rights are not included, i.e. the fact that men are disloyal, that there is no responsibility. It is obvious, in view of the statement by the Ministry of Economic Affairs, that one job at a businessman will not have anything to do with this if there is a significant change in these factors. So I support the simplicity, but I think we need to take a much larger step. It is mentioned in the bill that this is just a first step to get around this operation and make sure that it is legal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u82	A respectable president. This is certainly the first step toward simplifying these laws. The requirements, mentioned in Regulation, are subject to the first and last attention to the safety concerns. This does not require how the apartments should look or if they need to meet certain standards. People are free to choose a place to stay for a taste. What we're trying to secure and worry about or put in this legislation is a requirement for security - a lot of smoke sensors, fire exits, and so on - but allow people to choose their own kind to stay overnight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u83	V.E.G. President. I admit, at first glance, this bill is a matter of some concern to me. I feel that there is a tendency toward bringing the law into violations that we know are at hand. This is an eight - week home setting for renting a room for only eight weeks. I wondered: " I know the highest. The minister of how much of the alleged unregistered apartments and rooms that are rented around the country, e.g. Here in the capital area, how much of these assets would fit into this categoria? I myself fear that it is much less, that we have much, much more of unregistered possessions rented on a yearly basis.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u84	A respectable president. In summary, we may not be able to say for sure how much is being rented out of all types of accommodations that are not recorded. This is in harmony with the problem. First of all, an attempt to get a certain part of that room up to the surface is being made. I don't agree with what. A senator that in the bill is the approach to breaking the law. I think the question should be further: Why is it illegal if someone wants to rent out his apartment or his summer house, his vacation house, or other parts of the year? Why is this to be illegal? We're just trying to get this on the surface in order to get a better picture. In my history, I said that this was only the first step. [[The president calls.]] We're trying to explain the classification of accommodations based on reality, not on preconceived categories that may not apply in the reality we live in today's world.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u85	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer, not to worry about me. Now it's as good as the highest. A minister may know and remember that I asked her about these matters last year and the previous day, I asked the Minister of the Interior to these matters, about staying in the room, and about how men are going to behave in this matter. The point is that the Airbnb page last morning was advertised in the city of Reykjavík, 503 apartments and rooms. My sources from this business have told me that there are as many rooms and apartments to rent in Reykjavík as there are all hotel stores, as many rooms as there are in apartments. I don't quite like the way the surveillance is going to be done. A client's job is to take care of things, part-time police. It's been ripped apart. How will this be carried out? Is the businessman warning the police? Should the police take the initiative? How would you like to conduct the surveillance?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u86	A respectable president. This is exactly what I repeat that we are trying to get around. Hv. According to his sources, a senator says that there are as many unsolved accommodations in the capital as there are recorded. If that is true, it is clear that a great deal of work is at hand. This is the first step in that direction. This is the first step in trying to reach out for this part. As I went over, we are at the beginning of this work. We've been studying the entire law. The decision was to start with this and to continue. The group continues to review other categories of beds. We have to start somewhere. As for the surveillance, we will proceed, as I told you earlier, that the surveillance will be passed by a businessman and after police incident and with the police information from the registry and from the IRS. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u87	V.E.G. President. In diagnostic work done by the Ministry of Health on housing proposals, it was reported that a number of apartments were under black rent. So I welcome the steps we take here in trying to get the apartments into the market where income and fees and taxes are returned, even though we know and realize that there is a number of apartments we need to reach in another way. I'd like to ask. In many rural areas, where there is a large stream of tourism, there are a large number of apartments that are given rent to tourists. Has there been an investigation? In some areas, this creates a rift of civil unrest that exists in urban areas, where visitors come and go are a source of great pain. Has anything been seen to this group?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u88	A respectable president. I'm happy to hear what you're saying. Senator. One aim is to distinguish work from the so - called homemaking, which is not a job but that it is reserved for individuals, not for lawyers. For those renting out, lawyers, or those who normally rent out their apartments, whether in short-term or long-term rent, the apartment is continuously rented to a particular person, it is covered by rent and property law. The group has not been working on this bill specifically, but the work of the group is certainly considering it and also in the policy work we're going through, especially with regard to endurance, the tolerability research in tourism. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u89	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. Minister for the answers. I thank you for the fact that there's a lot of analysis work going on because there's a conflict between groups. Of course, people rejoice at the current and all of it, but if many houses on the same street are used at home, trouble can be caused by it, there are certain groups who rejoice greatly while others pay attention to it and want specific laws around them. I wondered if by these conditions we would be able to place some restrictions on it in an apartment building.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u90	A respectable president. All of these are vital factors. A senator mentions. In terms of conditions relating to hostels and lodging, the rules are very clear, and communities and planning authorities, whether in the city or elsewhere, have made clear in their shared organization where the hotels and hotels may be and where not to be run. It is of utmost importance to grasp this reason, as the senator says, that people in a typical apartment building may become impatient, realizing that an apartment is soon rented with the anticipated inconveniences. Then it is important to follow the tenure laws and the property laws, which are, in fact, the responsibility of another minister, but I know that she has had these issues to consider. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u91	Madam President. I'd like to go through this, but as mentioned here, I'm just worried about it. I understand the ideologies and the purpose of the bill. We've talked a lot about this black job, and I'm sure a lot of work has taken place in the working group in an effort to control this problem. I doubt that the bill does it because I don't see, as I said before, the motivation for people to change their behavior. I also think that the people who rent out their apartments or their house don't think of themselves as criminals at the highest level. A minister put it into words and wants to practice it legitimately. I don't feel I feel through the bill something that brings it to the surface that people will want to register. That takes effort, it costs money, and so would people do what has been achieved in the pursuit of illicit employment? Granted, this is all they are, people earn from this income, short or long - term. That's what I'm thinking. It's like the highest. A minister said just now that there is a clear rule on this, yet there is still much about illegal activity. On page 18. 4 The bill discusses that the permit workers in the country, the county office, believe that the number of accommodations is misassigned and allowed in the wrong category. For example, many of the members of the class I work for homemaking, but they do run an apartment or a boarding home. We don't seem to get our hands on this today. And I don't think there's anything in the bill that shows we're going to put our arms around it. This same page also shows that it is a huge task to monitor this class and the need to provide resources and resources. I agree with them. As I described earlier, we've established laws and rules in the past, but then there's a great deal of follow-up. I see great limitations in the follow-up of these materials, and by itself, amazing numbers of places have been closed, considering how many seem to engage in these activities. Then I don't think there's any other authority available for the police in the bill that says that you can intervene and close, even though in Article 3. is authorized for a businessman to dissociate homework if a person has been advised to rent out long - term possessions and even more than eight weeks. So, there's some registration that you're guilty of against, like, I'm shaving here if someone is trespassing without permission. I know this as a senator. When I was elected to the council and moved here, I was looking for a place to live. For 12 weeks, I was offered a home for the summer period, and I searched many places, and much of that house was not registered. Of course, there are some who go to school, have rented houses all year, and then rent to third parties the whole vacation, i.e. June, July, August, even out of school May and so on. We also have this operation. It's not exactly a job, it's the subject's reaching out for a certain rent, maybe a little more. But it's done, and as I say, it doesn't seem like a lot of surveillance. I agree that the ideologies of the bill are good, trying to control this black operation, and I support it because I think there's something that needs to be corrected. renting out your legal home and/or other real estate that you have in short time is in itself something people have done and may not change much about this bill being agreed on, as I say. I don't know if people want to sign up and pay for it. I just want to go through the bill. It discusses the changed category of restaurants, and it makes me feel like a very positive change in some of the little restaurants that want the kitchen open longer than before. 23, but it has had to be paid for a rather high price. I feel very positive that this time-control is taken away, and the review is placed into the hands of a permission group, which are the plagiarism and rural communities. Thus, the city of Reykjavík was spoken of as setting clear lines regarding the opening of restaurants, and other rural areas might imitate it. I agree with that. I think it's a good thing, and maybe it will increase a little more than a variety of restaurants, perhaps especially in smaller places. It is referred to as the administrative organisation for registration of its website, as well as the monitoring of domestic registration and operations, and it is, of course, a call for work, resources, and financial support from the administrative bodies. Here is one set of positions set by the businessman in Reykjavík, and this is probably because most of the facilities here are trying to cover the big capital area. As I told you before, I don't see how it's going to work. In comment, we write 1st par. is quoted as saying that people were making eight days of contracts in order to avoid falling under the law. With 1 st. has been made up of new songs that describe restaurants, accommodations, and entertainment that are offered for no longer than 30 days at a time. They need to make changes in rents on the bill to be submitted by the social and housing minister. I wondered: Do I need to accept that bill before these laws go into effect? Or can these laws be taken into account that later the Department of Social Affairs and Hospital Affairs will be submitted? A minister may answer when she closes up the discussion afterward. Later, we comment on 1st pars. discusses a person's legal home and homemaking and discusses the definition of homemaking. She'll be given rent on a maximum of five rooms and a place to stay with a maximum of ten beds. It is acting in harmony with a building order that requires more than ten people to have other and more housing requirements. Actually, I think it's kind of funny that I can make it out of being like that. With fire doors if I rent out ten people's houses, but if I rent out by twelve, I have to have fire doors in everything. I think it's a little silly. But this is how the Regulation's agreed. I was now aware of the time when I read the Regulation that I thought it should just be either. I don't think if I'm renting ten people, it's okay if I'm less. Then there's another section here, c-joints 1. g., which I also like, no longer think it's a reason to have a special group for sleeping places that have minibars on their rooms. I might think it's a child of his time that's a good thing to deal with. I'd like to mention only 3. Gr., if I understand it correctly. It says that the registration charge for homemaking should be very moderate, and a person must register for each calendar wound if he intends to use his home for renting. But that's the 10th floor. 8 / 15 How Would You Answer? K. Homemaking fee. Is that the same? I think it's confusing. If this is the same price, why is it specified in both of these articles? According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, 8 Pentateuchs are spoken of. K. The registration rate and that in the unregistered employment and innovation programmes of the Ministry are expected to increase income by about 4How8 billion. K. In a year, which ought to cover the state of the county, I understand, and the management, except for perhaps 3 billion. K. which will be due to programming and system functions associated with the web site. Thus, the Ministry of Economics does not assume any increase in cost each year. I wondered about it because in Leviticus. is said to be a modest price per calendar year, but to 1 0 p.m. They say the registration rate is 8 up. K. I'm pointing this out, and maybe it's something you can fix. I'd like to come in at the end of the 5th. I talked only about a house of property with the minister in answer to earlier. She testified that if renting was out in the long run, it would depend on the property law and all the owners in the house would have to agree. Let's say I bought myself three apartments in a marquee and had a lawhouse in one, my baby in another, and something like that, as much as I can do, and what if I were renting it out? Where I live today, in the capital area, is such an apartment in the rented home. [[Is it, uh... to agree...?]] I have no idea, I haven't studied it, but there's been renting out the flat in time and hours. In this case, it's not exactly disturbed, but because I'm here to make the new house, I don't know if there's any agreement on this. It's not disturbing, it's not like that, I'm just thinking this out loud and wondering how we can put it together. In some areas, there is a purchase of a service on stairways, where the person involved is involved, i.e. The person who is renting out his apartment for a longer or shorter time, but in some places that is not the case. Whether a person is involved in the multimedia community work that is created in an apartment building may be a concern. Twenty-seventh. a law on the real estate is a requirement for the change in ownership and approval of all owners of the house, but it shows up, by permission of the President: ▪ Despite Article 1. A owner cannot resist such a change if it is shown that it does not cause any disorder of his legitimate interests. This too should be kept in mind. The same article also speaks of the change in practical use, which is not significant; it is sufficient to agree more than one part with the number and property, but it also involves a special distraction and all of that. I'm only concerned about these matters, but this may be more apparent in the discussion of the Committee, and hopefully that will be the case. They know what is in a property building where house management is developed, and we know what has been living in an apartment that it is not necessarily so that all are active participants in the community. This may matter. Of course, if the person is not applying, you can complain and this can be reported, etc. But I wonder how to reach out to a man in that home who claims to be renting his relatives, etc., that we also know examples, or that I know at least an example of. As I'm saying, I don't exactly feel in the bill that motivates people to change their behavior in these topics. But I sure hope we can get a better grip on this market because there's a real need for that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u92	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss a bill about changing the law on restaurants, restaurants, and entertainment. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir handled the matter very well, for she knows this case very well. Her talk indicated that she was content with the purpose and ideism - as well as the highest. Minister very well at first. I want to take this opportunity here and say what it says. I'm very comfortable with the main elements of the bill and its purpose and ideologies, that is in line with the central conclusion of a work programme in which black employment is a major problem in hosting, number of unscheduled and unauthorized facilities. I'd like to ask you what. A senator - she was concerned about keeping track and registration - if she could tell me more about it, how she feels about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u93	A respectable president. I don't know exactly how to answer it. A senator in other ways than my concern is that those who are already practicing illegal activities will be brought to the surface with what is presented here, which requires work and effort, and this requires supervision. That may primarily be the case. I know we must in some way reach these people, appeal to their conscience, but I don't know if we're going to do so with the increased management of their own. Granted, the system is also being tried to simplify it. Don't forget, there are some underlying things in this licence system to simplify. But I don't have a solution in how we're going to pick up people to get them to register. That's why I'm also worried about the monitors. How should the police in the capital area pick out individuals who do not apply if not referred to them? If the police don't get a report on this, I don't know how to pick up the people and encourage them to apply for permission. There's some things in the restaurant, especially about the restaurant business, but there's something else about the home setting, that's what you're worried about. But I don't have a solution for how we're supposed to do this. It's worth the experiment, but then we need to be aware that the monitoring factor is not sufficiently strong in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u94	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter for her answers. I agree that the surveillance needs to be okay, but, above all, writing and handling need to be simple. I think there's a lot of improvement and it's gonna help in these areas. I feel that this bill is telling me and I believe that to some extent it will correct it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u95	Madam President. I agree with that. There's some way we have to go. Enrollment and management simple; yes, it does matter that it is simple. But if I'm going to go abroad for four weeks or something and rent out my apartment, I'm not sure that it's worth the effort to pay for that 8 you. S.K., access the Internet, file and return, etc. - and I don't talk about who's in an apartment trade, that's maybe another thing, people don't exactly benefit from it. I have that doubt, though it should be simple, that we draw these people forward. Of course, we would rather draw out those who are renting for an extended period of time, not just for eight weeks, but throughout the year. Today, the period of travel is throughout the year, and the capital city becomes a tangible warning. It's the apartment owners we'd like to try to reach, they might fall into a different category than the one I've mostly made as a subject, i.e. those who rent less time. It's all about it. Those who have worked in this sector have complained about the license process, that you have to go to many places to get things done. It's an attempt to simplify that factor, and it's fine. I agree that somewhere you have to start. I don't think the surveillance is properly defined for us to be able -- if we assume that the bill will turn into law next year - how it's done over a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u96	V.E.G. President. First of all, I hope that what I had up here in the answers to earlier didn't fill my mind. Minister, I'm against the bill or I have big comments on it. Of course I'm glad that these matters are simple, celebrating very much, and I will do all I can, both here in this hall and on a professional committee, to settle this matter through the council. I'm afraid, however, that we're starting on the wrong end. I think, and I think I'm pretty sure that the bedside in there is just the top of the iceberg in this case. Actually, I think, and I have some assurance that we're losing most of it and that the risk is the most in terms of unsolved lodging where there's a whole year's rest. Now it's a little old-fashioned, I think, that focusra at an eight-week stay over the rush hour because everyone knows that the busy hours in tourism are getting a lot longer. As we know, the growth has been tremendous. So it is our duty, first of all, to remember that the accommodations sold here in this country are safe; unscrupulous room has not passed through the eye of fire protection. Second, we need to make sure that the accommodations are made in such a way that tourists who take advantage of it want to come back. In my opponent earlier, I said that in the capital area, there are as many sleeping rooms as any hotel room, that was told to me by the operator in this article. I've encouraged the highest. Minister to join with his coal, the highest. Minister of the I.R., to make sure that the means of monitoring that are now effective will be used together with what we're giving the bill. I certainly hope that the time it takes to settle the matter will not be to postpone the necessary supervision we need to make with this article. I have encouraged both former and current Minister of State and Industrial and Business Ministers, and will do so again and now, in order to make the paces hard enough to allow the police to be funded for serious monitoring of unscheduled beds. If you turn on Airbnb, you will notice that a very large proportion of them are renting a full wound psoriasis and unregistered. I've talked to my former police partner, and I've asked them if it's possible to keep up with the police's routine surveillance, i.e. when men are only driving for observation. People have claimed to me that it is possible. Of course you can because your addresses are available. It is advertised on Airbbb, and I have been informed by the executives of the travel agency, that SAF sent an address list to the Ministry. It should be a slow problem, then, for humans to include each account number and to make sure that the availabilitys of such mail numbers are correct, as well as guilty men who do not meet that requirement. I have also heard, for example, in cab drivers that they are driving tourists to a house that doesn't look like it's real enough to be in real estate. Then come back to what I said before, we have to make sure the travel experience is in the way that they want to come back, and we need to ensure their safety, apart from the fact that we want these sectors to understand them. It's completely intolerable, if you're right, that there's such a part of this operation below the ground, as they say. It is not only unpleasant for those who act, for those who have become so important, to work, to be subjected to this kind of propaganda, which seems to be more than an injury. So we have to make sure these things are okay, and this operation comes up on the surface. I also have reason to be sure that these accommodations that aren't registered with credit cards but that they have no contract with national credit card companies. They have contracts for credit card companies abroad. They use a so-called paddle system. This will never be seen in Iceland. Never. And they cannot be traced. That is why I also encourage the highest. In an effort to curb credit card companies, a minister seeks to work with them. Because there is such an amazing situation in this article. I encourage people to consider that during the last Passover, all the ATMs in Reykjavík were empty. However, it should not be that one reason is that when tourists want to reinvent their accommodations with a map, they are often told: No, listen, the dish is broken! Would it not be that the situation was different when ATMs were emptied during the last Passover? In short, I will say, of course, I will do my best with others to pay the bill's way through, but I want to reiterate my encouragement to the highest level. Ministers in the event that, if necessary, the police will already be in charge of the financial situation in order to go from door to door to check on this operation. This is important to all of us, the situation as it is now is intolerable. This is a good step in simplicity. It's a good step, but I feel like we're starting on the wrong end. We need to attack those who are unscrupulous and try to get them on the surface in some way. But otherwise, as I have said before, I will do my best to ensure the outworking of this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-15-89.u97	A respectable president. I want to thank you for this discussion. If I first cross my words. The last speaker, I agree with him, that it's completely annoying, especially for those who have all right, to be constantly cursed for not doing things legally, in this industry like everyone else. Somewhere we have to start. There are some ways to handle the situation. This is the way to simplify the registration process, the simple rule order to encourage people to bring it up to the surface, this species. She's the one we're talking about here. This is the first step, the next step is the next category and the larger kind of room. I was hoping that we could bring a complete review of these laws during this council, but the group needed more time to cover the project. Instead of letting everything stop, I wanted to bring what the group had finished so that we could start at this place. Some of the points have been discussed. On one hand, it is those who are employed and rented apartments, whether under the surface, so much that they are not legal but individuals who rented their houses illegally throughout the year or not, as I thought they would be. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir is talking about and may be most concerned. We are trying to reach out to those who have complained most about the complexity of the system and are complaining about their inability to register in a simple way in order to make things legal. I'm a little bit thinking about the conversation earlier. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir says who's the motivation to sign up, it's trouble. The people I've been talking to and having been in this position are right on the other side. Why doesn't it inspire me to come up here? I want to make things legal. I think, and it may be optimistic on my part, but it turns out that this will lead to the normal people who are in it to get an extra bit of money from a year will come here. For the surveillance. There may be a miscalculation in this bill. There's something I'm urging the committee to look into. Of course it costs money. I would point out, however, that it is in the process of teamwork. A senator pointed to the list provided by the Association of Travellers to form tax managers and police to point out unsupervised lodgings. The cooperation is still with the tax people and between other employment partners, all of which have the goal of trying to stop this trend. I encourage the committee to review the need for further attention. The thought of this was to allow it to start in this way. I think it's more personally because I don't think it's a promising first step for the police to walk from apartment to house. I think we should rather start this expedition with the guide of trusting people and having faith in the ideologies, which is that with simplicity of order, people are motivated to correct matters. That's what this case is all about. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir said: There are clear rules now, but still people cheat. I believe that's part because the system is too complicated. When applying for permission for a small boarding home, you need permission, as is the case with hundreds of rooms of hotels. They grow in people's eyes, whether they are individuals or small companies. That's why I think a lot of these things went under the surface. The Senator also asked if the rent law would need to be adjusted now, as mentioned here. Working on this bill was a good cooperation and cooperation between the Ministry and the Ministry. I don't know any better, but they're asking the senators to take it with them in advance that I haven't checked it since the bill came up, but these regulations should have come into the bills at the highest level. Department of Social Affairs, who has already proposed changes in these rents. I'm not gonna have any more words on this. I hear the comments that have been made here. I hear there's surveillance first and last time people worry about it. Like I say, I'm afraid I will. A professional health committee to look into these matters completely and to hope that we can get this done before spring, for the summer fishing business. In this way we can evaluate the experience as first and continue, and get it more experienced in the autumn Parliament to carry out this bill with further improvements and even more simplicity of the book, which is then more extensive and reaches more categories of sleeping places, so we can continue to grasp this problem. I thank the members of Parliament for the discussion and hope for the success of this matter within the committee. [[Foreground on: Good case.]]
