ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u1	Borist has received a letter from the Ministry of Health asking for every request to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 276, about funding for the rehabilitation of psychotics, from Indriðadóttir Injuriadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u2	To answer, Ministers of Education and Culture, Ministers of Social Affairs and Homing, Fisheries and Agriculture, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Health Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to direct a question to the highest level. Social and housing minister for the Afghan Team in Akureyri. I don't think it's very comfortable to have to deal with such a small body of sheep, we can say, when we're supposed to be watching the big movie, but the situation is so that the workers were changed so that the museums went to the council, and I agree with the change, I think it's good that the Ministry does a museum team and some professional agency is with them. On the other hand, when we request answers, we need senators, such as the Afghans, who are engaged in sexual and family violence. They receive very little money from the government box, about 3 million a year, I think. All the rural areas in neighboring areas have supported the Power and have sent aside a book on this matter. I'd rather not have to come here just before Christmas with some adjustments, even to put the new budget on the budget. I'm sure I can convince a body of Congress and the General and legislators that we are supposed to be sponsoring this organization further, I can do that by some means, which I don't necessarily feel is professional. I'd like the Ministry to handle this. But I have to ask a minister: Is there any point in supporting this organization? If not, why not? I'm sure we agree, me and the highest. Minister, that there should be a requirement for all who receive financial contributions. If there's anything in the publication that causes any problems or questions at the highest level. A minister may be demanding to set matters right. But I would like to point out that an organization that has 3 million resources cannot even afford to hire an employee for half a job, so a professional job can be difficult. [[The president calls.]] I'd like some answers to that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u4	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's daughter's iron for the inquiry. Hv. A senator has taken up this matter before. I would like to point out, first of all, that the budget is now being treated by the Senate as a financial committee. A senator seated and has the opportunity to present his indications. After the so - called museum members went to the council, we have given high priority to professional work practices and a professional assessment of the applications that come on the level of welfare. A Committee of Special Assessments, acting within the Ministry of Health, reviews all applications and offers suggestions on how to support distribution. We receive a number of applications from a highly qualified organization, and unfortunately, we can rarely be asked to obtain the amount of money they would like. In view of the cost of changes in the economy, free partnerships and others are always less and less. However, I would like to point out that at the Ministry, we have emphasized the need to add professional service to those who suffer violence. That's what we've done by putting 10 million. K. to finance the position of psychologists at the Akureyri Hospital. This is the same amount of paper that was given to the mental ward here in the capital area, although there are significantly fewer people living in the North Land than in the capital area. I feel that no comment is being made on the Afghan or other members of our society that, unfortunately, we can't come to a conclusion on the budget we have.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u5	A respectable president. That answer does not inspire hope. I'd like to point out that this case isn't inside the table of the budget board. It is in museums and therefore is under the Ministry. I can't do anything in this case, but I can propose to the council, and I'll expect to do that, even if I'm upset because I don't feel that it's the kind of work we're supposed to do. I just want to remind you that we're about two. The budget determines the highest. Minister to strengthen the Women's Association, I suppose, about 5 billion. K. and also now the Women's Association is being supported. Some things are being strengthened. It's a matter of priorities. As the only organization of sexual abuse outside the capital area, an organization that is highly important in its area is considered to be of no greater importance than a 3 million dollars. ... onlaws? I can't figure it out. I'll then make some adjustments just before Christmas, although it's against my spirit because I'd like to see a minister get up and do better in this suit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u6	A respectable president. I repeat what I said. The financial bill is now in the hands of the council. It is the General Assembly that has the ultimate decision-making authority on how funds are laid down. If the decision of the council has to be made specifically an increase in funding for the Power, we will, of course, act on what the council wants. [[Taken out ……]] I'd also like to reiterate that we've put a lot of emphasis on the Ministry to practice professional work as regards the intervention of our welfare grants, and we will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u7	President. I have been impressed by clinics in Reykjavík, as well as in many parts of the country. It's been a little discussed, but since we now have the budget at the council table and are going through their unique team, I wanted to know who's heading the highest. A health minister is about the emergency at the clinic. I also wanted to ask about this policy, considering that there has been an amazing decrease in the number of staff working at clinics, i.e. with home doctors. The age combination is such that a large proportion of these doctors, but the home medical service is the first contact of the public before the health - care system is being maintained. The situation has become dangerous, and it is very expensive for society in general, and it is very bad for the common people because there are so many here who do not have a family doctor. People wait not just for a few years but for decades without a permanent family doctor. Although private clinics have been established, the ages of the family doctors are exactly the same as in other places and even worse. I happen to be a private health care center, and it's just as difficult to get a family doctor there as anywhere else. So the problem must lie in that the work is not exciting or safe enough, and it is too difficult. This has even begun when patients were in their time for dinner. So I would like to ask about the minister's policy in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u8	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. Medical issues are very important and full of the need to discuss them. There's no secret that I'm concerned to some extent. A senator who touches the ages of family doctors in the country. Clearly, there is a very rapid aging process that lies ahead of a great deal of time. I'd like to inform you, though, that we've probably never been to educate as many experts in domestic medicine in Iceland as we do in the past, no matter how it gets here. I don't know. We have tried to meet the wishes of family doctors in various ways. I would like to mention a special increase in the number of doctors at the clinic. We have also been publishing on the basis of our study sites for health care from a central decision so that health care has more freedom to play on it. I'd also like to mention things that are sure to count, but in many estimates, we do not feel that the next year's financial bill is not sufficiently heavy, where we expect to be funded in the clinics in the capital area, as well as other factors that depend on the support of the home - care provider and then the psychiatric services inside it. I don't know, however, that there are some saying goodbyes on patients. There is a dispute between doctors and governments over how many patients should count to each physician, but that number is also very variable by location. We are now, so I come to the end of my case, preparing for an increase in health care center in the capital area on the basis of the financial resources listed on the budget, and I can get a little closer to that in my second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u9	Mr. President. I thank you for the answers, but it's clear that it's not enough just to look at more doctors, even though it's very important. In this area, experts have observed that many simply do not want to come home after study, and this is just one of the local work centres where doctors cannot be hired from abroad. It's just that way. The cost of not knowing which step should be taken when they teach themselves to be ill is great. For example, it goes to emergency room or clinics where people are not properly diagnosed. I've been there many times, and I know a lot of people who go there, and it's just a lucky and misleading method which doctor you get and how much time you get to go into what's wrong. In fact, it should be for emergencies only. So it's a long crack. The number of these stations is very good, but there is still a ongoing problem in the country where family doctors do not want to go there because of a difficult job plan. So I have to ask, What exactly is the minister's course in this case? Is there any way to respond to the emergency? The pressure of the country's hospitals is now abundant because of all the previous efforts not to improve. That's why I have to ask exactly, "Who's the minister's policy? Is this situation under financial control?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u10	A respectable president. The minister's policy is to strengthen the health care facilities as the first stop in health care. That's basic. That is how the law reads. I'll admit that as you look at the story down to today, this law has not been followed enough because you see people flock to other aspects of health care but to health care. When you say this, like a dog. A senator notes that many doctors do not want to come home from abroad to work within the medical facility, and I have heard that even. from a family doctor's partner that they may include because they have no choice yet in the present organization but to become public employees. They want more freedom to do their job. We are in part by what I mentioned earlier, trying to meet their wishes by offering more business plans than government business. In that work, we are now standing. Whether public or private, we are putting our last hand on a requirement for health care. [[The president calls.]] We're rebuilding the entire financing model, and I hope we can introduce this in a very short time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u11	Mr. President. I can't help accepting the presentation of the first lead officer here today in the performance of the government in the Afghan Affairs of Akureyri. It is with the enmanagement of the State's involvement in support of that work and little equality when compared with what is done in the capital area and could be more. I am a member of a welfare committee and amateur and a very concerned politician on the status of housing and real estate markets, especially in the capital area, and the circumstances of young people who are not really going through an apartment to get to the real estate market at some rate of success today. According to the Constitution of the government, it is the highest order. Social and housing Ministers - I call attention to the word housing, I don't know whether it's previously in the Magisterium's job title as determined by the Board of Directors that the Minister handles housing specifically - six prime messages on housing at the fall council, housing benefits, social housing (founding housing), housing partnerships, mortgages, housing conditions (incarceration facility) and housing matters (house mortgage). There are six primes to the highest. Ministers have announced a resolution to be submitted to the fall council, to be considered here. None of these bills have arrived in the list of bills on the General website, and I must ask the highest. Minister of every seat. It is not enough to hold a multi-organed Ministerial Conference in town if nothing happens in these cases. It would be interesting to know if the highest. One thing a minister thought was to share in the cover of the land, that young, educated people will flee the country because their housing issues are so out of the way and nothing is happening. Why is it that none of these bills are available? Where are they? Is there a disagreement in the government on these matters? It's the highest. The secretary of the house stopped for some reason? It's the highest. The secretary of the house may have chosen the way a sea - and - farm minister to surrender? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u12	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon for the inquiry. Like what? A senator no doubt recognizes the debt of the government in connection with collective agreements to take certain measures in the housing. We've been working on that plan. The Parliament already contains suggestions for funding this initiative in the budget and is now being treated by the budget board. The proposals for the Allorminians are also in the economy and business committees. Since then, ministers who have been involved in the seminary have been working on the initials and implementations of these and other items related to the declaration. Another part of the declaration is very broad consultations with the labour market partners and rural areas. It has simply taken time. This cooperation has been successful, nothing has changed. When we last discussed the problem at the council, I was reminded that I would take it to myself, of course, and that we work very hard to get the primary projections into the council. It hasn't changed about the Constitution. We're still planning on getting these things in place. As I have reached this project, the key to making peace with the bills and the fact that we take as much account of their comments in our discussion as possible. The matter is just under way, and I expect these matters to be presented at the council soon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u13	Mr. President. I have reason to believe that at least some of the labour market members are not too happy with this process and how things are going. I mentioned that I was filming this case, too, as a member of the welfare committee. This is a large package that the committee has been waiting for, and of course it is not acceptable if the committee is suddenly to receive just before Christmas a pile of bills and have no time to win them. It's complicated and very controversial and controversial, and translocations in these products, as shown in the last spring at the highest rate. A minister, however, came to the council by one or two prime posts. They never went further, but when it became clear that much of this was controversial and controversial, technical, and complex. I just notice that these things can't work out. A general body of elders cannot have a complete share in these activities if these matters are to be done well and give a reasonable amount of time at the council. It seems completely clear to me that the highest. Minister has fallen on time with all of this before Christmas, and it's going to be going to the election season. Social and housing minister, if anything should happen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u14	A respectable president. I thank you again for the answer to what happened. A senator about what I answered. I am confident that the welfare committee is doing a good job in these matters. She knows three of the bills in my Constitution before the fall. We have also, of course, been considering the comments from sources in the management of the situation, including in summer, and have tried to consider them as far as possible. I expect people to do their job well. However, regarding the senator's question of whether I thought that young people were going to study or to move abroad for housing reasons, I would like to point out that the situation in many urban areas, e.g. in the north and in the United Kingdom, there's something worse than here. I think we have to look to some other reason, but I think it's a good place to live. People have been concerned about the potential for borrowing, but I'd like to point out that it has something to do with the consumer loans. A senator stood up and spoke at his time, which greatly narrowed the possibility of borrowing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u15	V.E.G. President. At the beginning of my speech, I especially welcome that festival day, which I would like to call so, which was yesterday, 11,11. 11.11 already at the highest. A medical minister signed a contract on the construction of a hospital on the land of the Ring Road Hospital, followed by the first tenet of the great task that began in the presence of a large crowd. I want to use this opportunity to wish for all of us, members of the hospital and staff, to congratulate us on this stage, which, in my opinion, was yesterday the beginning of the construction of a new hospital. I remind you of a discussion of local selection that the General Assembly agreed to agree to a hearing I was a 1st manifester that, submitted in October 2013 but adopted in May 2014 by 56 unanimous regulations, to commit the government to complete as soon as possible the preparation for the renewal and construction of the National Hospital at the Reykjavík Circle Course, and to begin the act of financing had been ensured. This was the clear resolution of the Generals and, more fortunately, has been made, and the minister has shown firmness in this regard. My questions to the highest. There are three ministers. The first one is about the treatment core. We'll see that it's a guarantee of design, and it can take about two years. Is it not completely guaranteed by the government to the General Assembly that financial contributions will be ensured at the proper time and when the tender invitation might be made? The treatment core will be greatly saved. Second of all, I'm asking about the laboratory. Is there a guarantee of the design of that house? Laboratory activities are fired in ten places today. Third and last, perhaps the most important question about the emergency hotel that began yesterday is: Is it not absolutely certain that the hospital will be expelled when it is used? [[The president calls.]] These are my questions to the highest. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u16	A respectable president. Thank you. At the beginning of his discussion, a candidate expressed appreciation for all who have done this work. Likewise, he is to be honored for his progress in this matter. It was a truly pleasant day, a happy time, and in the spirit of the day, 11 / 1 1111, I think it is possible to hope that people can enjoy it and that the outcome of strife and pleasure can be arranged at the conclusion given, in the spirit of what was done in 1918, that they would accept only the word, that they would finish their quarrels, and that they would look forward to the future with a brighter eye. I hope we are, indeed, here on this matter. What is involved in financing further projects with these programmes must be implemented into a longer term financial programme. We are now in the value of the 2016/2219 national budget, where the budget of the design and preparation of an invitation to a treatment core is expected and also for projects related to the construction of the laboratory. Whatever it is. A senator asks about the hospital's emergency hotel is now in the final meters, ordering a staff that is going to review a business arrangement, the possibility of a medical staff hosting and its impact on the hospital. That work is about to begin. I don't want to give myself anything in advance about who's going to run the house itself, but it's totally undeniably undecided that the National Hospital must have most of the information about any activity that will be carried out there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u17	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister for these answers. They are clear in my opinion that this will work by the current work plan and will be presented in a national financial programme where the design money and later the discharge of the treatment core will be guaranteed. If I understood the best. A minister who I hope was included in this also provides funding for design at the laboratory building, which will begin a building in the direct following of the treatment core when we completed it. It is important to use these years while building the treatment core to complete design and, if there is any indication, that we could even start a little earlier at the laboratory than there are plans because it will save our work in many places instead. I can agree with a lot of things. Minister said about the hospital. I'm glad there's been a team in service and I hope there's a lot of people there. I'm finally going to state my opinion, a respectable president, that I believe it is most fortunate that the hospital is expelled from the hospital and that the hospital can oversee that operation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u18	A respectable president. I'm not surprised at this. A senator has strong opinions about various aspects of this work. I reiterate my stand that I don't want to give myself in advance in the resources involved in the medical staff. I simply think that the hospital has a lot better gifts than running some particular operation than I would like, as I say, don't give me the premise that it won't, and don't think there will be any other way. All I want to do is set up this project so that the hospital will be connected to the operation. There is an enormous amount of work to go on, especially when considering the development that has taken place in various aspects of medicine that are always getting more and more involved in the national hospital. [[The president calls.]] It is therefore imperative that the activity being carried out there be very well organized and longer than one or three years old.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u19	Mr. President. It is now with us who are engaged in rural politics that we have a feeling and have had a little bit of time that we are in a nonstop defense struggle. Somehow we have to protect all our feathers, and they deal with our communities and deal with the people. It is recognized that one of the best construction operations ever performed in Iceland is when the University of Akureyri was established. Each one of them built on its pearls, and we in the rural business have the assurance that these pearls will grow and thrive, and most of them will be at peace. There is one pearl north of Skafurdur, known as Hólar, Hjaltadal, and another pearl in the National Guard, who is Iceland's National Institute of Agriculture in Hjalta Valley. Today, many have joined together and are engaged in fine work at Hólar in Hjaltadal, horsemen, and farmers, with the backing of a council. That's good, and I expect that project to be given continued support. But the uncertainty about the business of these Innkeepers and Hólar is very confusing. I had a meeting in the city last night with the people of the Hafnú, and the situation is disturbing. That's why I want to direct this question to the highest level. Education Minister: When can we expect the future of these institutions to be clear?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. Hv. A senator here brings up a number of problems that have been going on for a long time and turns toward the business of these two university institutions, the Hólar in Hjaltadal, and the University of Agriculture at the Valley. The problem of the operation is reflected, including in view of the University of Agriculture of Innnunus, there's a collection of significant management halls and state retrospectives and comments made to that position, as well as comments made by the Ministry from what has been received. It's a legal committee. Hills of Hjaltadal have also struggled with a difficult business and reflects the fact that these are very small institutions with few students working under law to cover our largest schools, such as Iceland's University. So they place heavy demands on this school that are difficult for them to live up to. I want to use this opportunity to commend those in charge of the school for their work and all the contributions that have come to master this position. The task is truly difficult. For some time now, a committee has been active under the leadership of two whales. Councilmen with the company's seat of government both from Skavetors and citizens along with representatives of these institutions of education. I've had quite a delay with the committee's proposal, but I have no doubt that, and I've discussed it at the moment. Councilmen who are in charge of the very short term will see the results of this committee. Hopefully, then, we can continue to work on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u21	President. Thank you very much. Secretary of education answers. I think they're pretty clear, i.e. that the conclusions may soon be expected in this case, and we will consider it when it comes to it and review the existing positions and possibilities of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u22	A respectable president. Once again, I thank you. A senator for bringing this up because this is part of the university policy here and, of course, an important focus on geographic matters. The two factors need to be intertwined so that the quality of university and the quality of the university schools that students acquire are certainly just as much as possible. It has to be in the foreground, but at the same time, the basis must be looked into. You're absolutely right. A senator says that for individual territories where these institutions are active, the work is extremely important. It will not be that long future if the benefits of the study there are not compatible. They'll run away from the institutions. What we are looking for is to ensure that the institutions can continue to work at home in the province and offer full benefits. [[The president calls.]] I have full confidence in the staff to care for it, but we certainly need to support it in this effort. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u23	Mr. President. During the spring months, I presented questions to the highest degree in writing. Education and cultural minister on the status of disabled students in high school. I inquired about whether the statistics made about how many disabled students who are diagnosed with a decrease in basic school ampoule of high school compared to those committed to cheating students. In addition, how a high school fund would be divided between disabled students in other ways and on the basis of what funding was given. Finally, I wanted to know how it helped me to coordinate with disabled high school students who need a lot of help in the activities of daily living and wondered if a conversation had begun to develop the integration of user - controlled personal assistance in high school service. As soon as I want to thank the highest. The minister of education will answer, and I must admit that I was disappointed by some inaccuracies. Therefore, I believe it is urgent that this class of students be referred to by a body of Congress and receive the response of the European Commission. High school students who need much help in daily activities, especially those who want to attend extracurricular or special courses, regularly get into a serious situation where they do not have enough support to be able to pursue studies, homework, and social life. Looks like they're going to have to choose schools based on who is ready to provide needed help, not on the basis of a spirit of interest and direction. One example is that students are directly or indirectly rejected because after school they feel that they cannot provide the needed situation. In addition, the assistance is usually confined to the school building, so it is not accompanied by homework, which is considerable at this school and sharing in social activities. Farmers do not always respond to assistance from outside school, but they are directly involved in school. School laws for high school, primary college education, and the requirement for services to students with special high school requirements require that students be educated, adjusted for their needs, and that all work should be aimed at going for school without diagnostic progress, i.e. that students are taught together even if they follow different paths. Interestingly, though, these documents and wordings as much as possible appear in many parts of the world, thus reducing the weight of the laws and rights. Furthermore, the Regulation on services to students with special needs in high school is not about students who have a great need for help and who are more inclined to study in separate schools. This approach is contrary to the Icelandic legislation and 24rd. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people signed by Iceland, and the government is working to validate, although possible, which includes: By permission of the president: ▪ The Member States recognize the right of disabled people for education. They should establish educational systems at all levels without separating...•and the disabled will receive the necessary support within the general educational system in order to contribute to their beneficial education. Mr. President. People in this country have a long history of separation and excommunication, and they have had very poor living conditions and human rights from the beginning. It is seen during the time of social isolation, poverty, unemployment, and prejudice that weakens the people's involvement and influence and, therefore, their contribution. International reports, such as World Health Organization Report on the status of disabled people in the world, published in 2011 and the World Health Organization Report on the status of disabled children in 2013, show a black - looking whiteness that the opportunity for education is very low. They further stop studying because their needs are not yet met, thus ending further education. It affects the nature of the situation according to their job opportunities, financial status, and, therefore, social and health, to name just a few. In this respect, women who are found at particular risk. Both reports show that the lack of detailed information about disabled persons and their position in various areas of society makes it difficult for them to understand the real status of the situation. This contributes to the threat of government inactivity and indiscriminateness. Mr. President. If we do not see the problem, we tend to ignore it. We're supposed to be very worried about this. V.E.G. In reply, a minister of education says that disabled students cannot be gathered because it violates the protection laws of personal life. While data sources are very difficult, as in the majority of them, we draw data on the situation, and it is obvious that collecting data on the number of students starting high school with disability and completing it is not mere personal information. Requesting the highest response. The Minister of Education on these matters and the careful discussion of all of us today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u24	A respectable president. In the beginning, I want to thank you for what I said. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for bringing up this important subject. I reiterate that high school rights are set in high school law, No. 92/2008, approximately 2k. and 32. and 33. Thirty-four. is especially the rights of disabled students. It says: In high school, students with disability should be treated, scr. 2.g. track No. 59/1992, as well as students with emotional or social difficulties of teaching and special training support. Special help and appropriate equipment should be provided as necessary. Students with disability should study alongside other students as far as possible. It also says that a minister can authorize special courses for disabled students, so - called career courses. Regulation No. 230/2012 set at Article 34. The law says students in high school are entitled, and I'm listed here, by permission of a respectable president: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... to meet their study and social needs without separateness, regardless of physical or mental makeup, b. that their views are taken into account, based on their age and development in agreement with individuals as appropriate, as agreed by the United Nations Convention on Child Rights and the UN Convention on Disability Rights, c. to obtain expert assistance and appropriate equipment as necessary, d. screening and diagnosis of read inhibition with follow-up and learning support as necessary, e. access to appropriate communication styles, such as sign language and pointlets, as well as necessary equipment, tailored study tools as appropriate, position and teaching to promote the best education, self-impair, and societal development. In 23 of 31 high school, there are now operating courses for disabled students. The ministry is provided on an individual basis by an individual study schedule for each student. Almost all students from elementary school who need such a service to keep going, and it is rare that deduction is taking place. The courses are organized for four years despite three years of high school education. The program is designed to appoint professionals, such as public teachers, specialists, coaches, and other specialists because of student disability. This is how they endeavor to meet all the needs of the students at any given time. I would also like to add to the fact that it is not only the group of professionals listed here but also the help of other students in school who take up the work and help with these activities that I consider exemplary. The Ministry of Education gives special contributions to students on the basis of applications from high schools sent twice a year. A special contribution is also made to the activities of daily living for disabled students in other studies. In addition, this is a project that I think we need to pay more attention to, including, we need to have a better conversation with the advisors, the Ministry of Education on the other hand, and the social and health advisers, about cooperation in this field. I believe clearly that with increased conversation and cooperation with these advisers on this group of subjects, we should be able to continue to improve our ministry. I just agree with what. A senator says that we should aim to do so and that we should continue to aim to improve in this regard. I think we've made a lot of progress over the past few years, the service is better than it used to be. I think it's clear and indisputable. The number of people in need of special care, including Due to ADHD analysis and other abnormalities, there has been a large increase in recent years, so this has become more expensive. This may be because we are just analysing these problems more in the system and we will respond better than before, but it costs all and calls for money that we need to reroute into the school system to meet these challenges. Hence, they are reserved for what is bad. A senator made a fine talker of his speech, which, of course, points to the wealth provided by the Allied Council, the Presidency. This is presented in a natural way, as is done in the case of all other tasks that are comparable to what is being done here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u25	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for starting this discussion. I have to say, I would have liked to hear more from the Minister than a lecture from the law, regulations and answer to a written inquiry that has already been given here. I would have liked to have more vision in this case, not just talking about expenses. That's right, isn't it? paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson, said that the excommunication of the disabled from Icelandic society has, unfortunately, been a fact. It's also right to the highest. A minister showed that it has looked for better, but we must be much more ambitious because disabled people today normally think that they should have the same opportunities as others in society, since they are human rights. These are rights that are important to individuals and their families, but these are also rights that are important to all of us because the contribution of disabled people to our community is as valuable as the contribution of the rest of us, as well as the community becomes more diverse and broad. I'm not going to talk about the content of the study. I'm going to talk about maybe more ADL support, the activities of daily life. Since school agreements were made, the school service is being carried out. I believe that it should be considered to bring that service to social services or the law on the affairs of disabled persons and that it will be in the hands of the community, but not the school structure, and rather for each individual, because it is a very personal service that is important for the individual involved to have even the subject. This was the contribution I wanted to have the short time I had here. I hope this discussion will lead to improvement in the group of litigators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u26	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll Björnsson Bernsson for starting this discussion, which is truly needed. I agree that I would have liked to have a minister's answers a little heavier. Because I've been working with students who have had some kind of dysfunction in a career course, where this was the opportunity to study effectively without diagnostic purposes, I have at all times seen the importance of the transfer between school grades, i.e. When students go from high school to high school, there have been some conversations between the schools they come from and those they come to, both schools and the students we take, so students do not experience insecurity and feel that they are difficult to go into a new environment. Of course, when we're talking about disabled people, we're talking about amazingly wide spectrums. We're talking about people with dyskinesia. We're talking about people with developmental impairment. We're talking about deaf blindness or dwarf wax, etc. Impulsive activity, developmental retardation, and a number of factors are behind them, all of which matter. The needs are enormously different. For example, we who do not wrestle are not faced with a problem running for a key in a locked toilet. It can be a wonderful thing for someone who is extremely motion - stricken and who is not, of course, supposed to be like that. I agree that people should have a choice about what they do in school. Of course, this is primarily about the Kingdom to fulfill its responsibilities when it comes to serving those who are disabled. When I wait for an answer to a query, including Because of the study material for Deaf children, and repeated requests have been made, the ministry seems to have great confusion on how to treat people with some form of inhibition. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u27	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for starting this important discussion. In this brief speech, I would like to briefly review how the organization is with students in high school, since I know only by means of the purpose of presenting well - being. The school involved here is a course for disabled students. Students go to classes belonging to the track and to some employees, including Teachers and supportive agents, caring for their abilities and needs. At the same time, I know that students who are in the so - called gray area who need a lot of extramarital attention on the study material have received the course's service, including to organize homework and to keep the study organization under control. This service, as I have seen it, is exemplary. Students and their people seem happy. This is very positive and important, as we know, for a student's well - being is needed for him to be able to pursue daily life and study and enjoy and benefit. In the cases I know about them, the students who are in the 10th grade who have disability analysis or in these gray areas have been given some adjustment to high school, and especially to the course. There were then some scheduled visits to high school while a student was in the 10th grade. Besides, I know that the student's parents and guardians as well as the employees of the elementary school had a meeting with the school and the track staff. All of this is done to protect the student's interests and ensure proper communication. I believe this is a good process that can greatly enhance the well - being of an individual. I don't fully understand what the situation is on national level, but it feels like a system worth looking at. For us to be able to carry out a fine ministry, as shown in this talk, we need sufficient funding for the seminary, and I want to reiterate it here at the end of my talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u28	A respectable president. In fact, it is often, and I would generally think of a very big difference between the experiences of disabled people and those committed to most of their lives. What seems to be a very small matter to the attention of a person who is embarrassed can easily become insinuable to those who are disabled, and since a group is very varied, it takes very little thoughtlessness to walk very close to the rights of disabled persons. There are at least two species of inconsiderateity, one of which is e.g. When you use a parking lot that you think of for disabled people, something you do, and somehow walk on the rights of disabled people. Then there is another form of inconsiderateness, which is simply thoughtless, e.g. repairing a house will no longer be available to disabled people, unthinking that this group will need to be taken into consideration. We need to be aware of the laws and regulations that concern any object that may concern those who are disabled and, of course, care about the basic and probable interests of those who are disloyal. When we set up such regulations and such laws, it is important that we keep this in mind. We need to be conscious of our concern. It is not enough to ignore some problems; we need to work to ensure and protect the rights of this group. This is something that I see over and over in my discussion, and when I meet disabled people that they get evicted from society. It's because it's an outcast from society. It is rejected by ordinary thoughtlessness. Even well - meaning, kind people who want to do well and who do not show inconsiderate or disrespect will do so if they simply make the simple mistake of forgetting. We all do. We need to keep that in mind when setting rules and laws on any case, including education.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u29	A respectable president. I like everybody else to thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for this discussion, because I think this is exactly one of the things we can never stop talking about. It goes a little with that as a matter of course. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson was telling us earlier that much of what we set up in regulations and laws and the environment we make ourselves in order to be very thoughtless of by those who have been criticized, simply because they are not as much here as the rest of us who are unconvinced. So inconsiderate is built into much of our structure. I think this is one of the most important things we have to fight for changing, i.e. To set aside and to allow other and different viewpoints to be given. Only in this way can we slow and biting move toward a better and more just society. We all know that today things are not the way we would like them to be, but we need to keep trying. One thing that we should do to remind ourselves and make a better religion is to confirm the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people. Another thing I would like to mention is what would happen after high school studies with disabled people. Is your job life prepared to receive people with different kinds of work disability? I don't think that's often the case. It's something that I don't know if we can put a lot of rules on, but we should talk more about it and try to contribute to the level of professional life that we are in education in the education system, no matter how physically prepared they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u30	A respectable president. Thanks to you, this discussion is a matter for those who are disabled. When I talk about disability, I'm talking about a variety of calms, disability, disability, mental retardation, intellectual impairment. The schools of these sisters and brothers are human rights, and fortunately, in those 25 years, there are things that I know best about in this category. At the turn of the century, for example, only two years of studies in high school were offered. In the year 2000, there were four - year - old training courses in at least two high - school schools in Reykjavík. I think that's exactly what I think people in the country are facing when there's a deviation, because then they have to move out of their own country. That's not good enough at all. In this category, as I said, there are very different variations and adjustments to any person involved must be made. In this regard, I want to remind them that these people, our fellow citizens and our brothers, have gladly accepted all their options. At the Grand Ways School in Garða, the first group to go through a four - year study showed appreciation by showing up every day, all of whom had 100% attendance. I'm not saying we've come far. We also need to look to what happens after high school is over. [[The president calls.]] Then I'm just going to remind you that we have to support a diplomat study in the University of Iceland's Education and Science. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I have concluded my speech with these words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u31	President. I'd like to, like other senators, thank you. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson for bringing this up here. Now there are words of all things first, and therefore we need to speak of them. Perhaps we need to talk about it more often than we have done, and especially in view of my disappointment in the minister's answers, which made me feel that he had gone to the Law Museum and read from there what was right, but this discussion is under way started because people don't get what the law says they should get. I hope that the minister will come here in his final speech and express his full will to do what he can to make these matters work out better than they are. It was also a pleasure to hear from what happened. paritaprevir Lára Arnardóttir where things are well done. Perhaps it could be directed to the Ministry that it pointed to the court schools to imitate one another so that one might learn from another. The ultimate goal must be, more dignified President, that we will provide all people, dressed and unsuited, that they will enjoy the rights we have set in law, not just read from the Law Museum.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you for this very important discussion. According to the 2014 Ministry of Health, the 2014 Department of Education and Social Excommunication says that many studies do not result in school ideologies without separateness. I would like to quote the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Infirm People. In par. 24th. says, by permission of the President, Member States provide the most necessary support for disabled persons within the general educational system in order to contribute to a high level of education and to a successful, individual support measures are offered in an environment that encourages the most progressive progress in education and social development that once again harmonizes with the aim that disabled people can live in the community without any diagnostic factors. People are a vast variety of people, but the lack of formal education has helped disabled people to get cleaned up when it comes to employment. Research shows that as disabled people's education increases, they are more likely to be active in a job market. So the possibilities of disabled people to pursue high school are of enormous importance. We need to look at this in a larger context, for example, because there is much to consider, for example, about taking up a job estimate, since participation in a job market is fundamental for disabled persons to support themselves. Hence, we must always think of the affairs of disabled people as part of a larger group, a community. [[The president calls.]] High school and high school education are one very large part of the fact that disabled people can share in society to the same extent that others do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u33	A respectable president. I appreciate the discussion, and it's important, and a lot of interesting things have been presented. It seems quickly to me that at three-quarters of the country's high school courses, there's a career run. Because I know about them, the work around them is exemplary. However, I wondered about the students in the fourth school, where there is no career. They lose out on getting to know the students there who could study and the work around them, since their career is not only for those who attend it but also for the whole school community. Service to students in the field ministry is usually well - versed and a good connection with social services, elementary schools, and other subjects mentioned earlier. However, there is a lack of awareness and transparency in budgets where they are left behind. The answer to the inquiry was also quite surprising. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson set out last spring, saying that there are no overall numbers of students in the field or students who need special support in high school. How can it be possible to finance and control and assess the results of a project that does not have an overall picture? I agree with the view that it is important that the activities of daily life be independent of the schools, but schools are responsible for individual studies and teaching, but, of course, this service often needs to be integrated, and it can be improved. I also want to come in here only at the end of my life that I'm just as worried about students who don't fall under the field of work. They are a little lost to students, whether they are students who want to study on other roads despite some disability or not considered disabled but who still need much support. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u34	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers and the discussion. I'd like to thank them too. Councilmen who spoke up for their inclusion in this helpful discussion. For example, I can agree with many of the people who came up here that, of course, it would have been nice to see the minister's answers being more heated to this case because it is so important in our society to fix this. It has also been observed in debates. Conventioners are well - equipped. This class has made progress. No one's talking about anything else, but there's a lot more to do. It would be great to have further discussions about the next step. Clearly, there must be a clearer understanding of policy and action and strategy and in cooperation with disabled persons. One of the things I've come across in the past few years is that these people don't have much consultation when working on the things that I find pathetic. I feel that disabled people should be allowed to be in more parts of the task management and groups working on their affairs. They know things best. More important, work with the high school community on the basis of information. Maybe that's what it's all about. There is not enough information on the situation. That's one of the things we need to fix because if we don't, we don't know where we're going. That's a big point. We have to fight for somehow destroying the obstacles these individuals face. There are many opportunities, and these are primarily in integrating services, so that they follow primarily individuals, not houses. Thus, problems in and outside school can be solved and can affect learning options and reduce separation and other discrimination. One important way is by considering how the user - controlled personal assistance can be added to the equation. In recent years, it has often been shown that using personal help is a wonderful tool for disabled people to study and participate in life, but it is now in an upset state like so many other things. We've got a lot of work to do. I trust the highest. A minister of education to take this tribe firmly so that at least we can live up to our commitments to these people. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u35	A respectable president. I thank you again and again for the apocalyptic, what? A senator, and someone else. Councilmen for our discussion here. I state that it was found that the fact that the review of this discussion was not heated is as follows, a respected president: Special discussions about the rights of disabled students in high school, focusing on the data collection and status of disabled students in high school and their right to help regardless of their choice of education. Of course, when writing this discussion, a minister should focus his attention on the laws and rights that students are assured of. That explains my speech, a respectable president. At the same time, I stress that then the question of the context between the budgets and the rights laid down in the law that controls the level of service that we offer. I believe it matters that we are at least at the point where 23 of 31 high school are operating on a career. I think it's a pleasure, and I've done a fine study of this operation, a respectable president, and let me claim that there's a great many things going on, there are people who are doing great every day of their work in this service. I also agree, and we can all agree that we can do better and need to do better. I mentioned in my talk that, among other things, it is important to increase the cooperation and conversation between different advisers involved in this class. I especially call attention to the comments here on what is taking place among high school graduates. I think it was important to look into these things because I know that parents of children who receive this service are often satisfied with what is available and anxious as their children leave that service. Really, there is little that will take them over. I think there's a very special reason for us to look into this, and I'll respond to the fine appeal as we speak. The advocate had come to me to try to do all our best in this series of subjects, for there is truly a need. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u36	President. That's our highest-level signature. The Minister of Education and Culture is a so-called RUS report, but by the case itself, the discussion will probably be quite more extensive than just the report as such. I expect the highest. Minister would be willing to have a word with me about the state of the State Radio for long and long. First, I'd like to say that the State Radio has been living with the reality of a long time in the Icelandic community that the Independence Party has particularly had a horn in the page of that institution. This has often been reflected in the conclusions made by the Independence Party, the SUS, and the Worldhood movement. At the highest rate, we have seen a place at the local meetings of the party and such meetings that the group as a whole has exactly concluded by selling the Kingdom Radio, placing it down, or by some means coming out of the map as a media in the public service. This is a political reality that has existed for many years, as I mentioned here, and normally it has been so that the Independence Party has not had much support for itself, either in control or in control, in that expedition. Now it has been said that some of the candidates have taken their stand and have spoken against the Kingdom News. This was directly so that the former minister of education Bjarnason was especially pleased that at last a political song was introduced to the State Radio because now the Independence Party had so good company in the government and a tap to wade through the U.S. Radio. I considered this to be a reason to mention this because when a new government began, it had been started in a way that would increase political control of the government of the state radio, and in that light I need to ask the highest power. Minister for the reasons of the assessment or the report under discussion. What is the reason why it was requested, and why is it directly requested here by a member of the Independence Party? I'm wondering if it's the highest. A minister did not realize that this is the credibleness of the report, as it has actually been discovered in the discussion, not only because of it but because of its individual components. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Minister on the radio charge. He has mentioned that he wants to make sure that the radio charge is not going to decline, despite the fact that the chairman of the legal committee claimed otherwise. I'd like to ask if it's the highest. A minister had a conversation with a radio director about the status of the radio fee and whether a radio director has required continued control of the Government Radio on the fact that the radio rate will not turn down and the price of the State Radio Penitentiary. Has this been particularly discussed with the secretary and radio director? A recent interview with a radio director shows that the Minister of Education is that the radio fee is no further reduced. He says, with President's permission: If this is going to work, as he has suggested, then it should be possible to ensure a continuing national program that has a purpose for a nation of Icelandic people. If these factors fail, of course we need to take action. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister to how he understands those words from a radio director. Of course, there are long-term, secure environments and contracts that have been the stated objectives of the management directors of VOLV and have been for years. I'm asking the highest. Minister to how he can ensure this stability in the business environment and the financial foundation of the Kingdom News or whether he sees it as a means of reexamination of the law, thereby reviewing the role of the State Radio. It is totally in accordance with current law that the State Radio has been too narrow for the plan to lower the radio charge. I'd like to make my question about the pension debt, which is one of the biggest problems in the state radio, whether a minister intends to handle it and then in what way. He's also been talking about the Ohf. Form. Then I'd like to ask him how he envisions to handle the matter in particular, what future vision he has in this regard. The minister has announced a Synod proposal for the future of Our Kingdom Radio, and I would like to ask what will be its main theme.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for starting a discussion on the State Radio and the existing report. At the beginning of his speech, the question remained. A senator suggested that the Independence Party had a special angle on the page of the Kingdom broadcast. I think it's a simple word wording. This issue is primarily about the purpose that we set aside by the intervention of the state of the media market, how we will ensure the best culture of our nation, our history, and our language that it is best shared with the nation, the basis for a democratic debate in the media, etc. Then you can discern which avenues are best for that goal. There are those who suggest that the best way is through a multimedia media, others who do not consider it the best way. As I'm saying, I think it's quite simple to approach it like a dog. A senator did at the outset because it is actually being viewed as the goal of the Kingdom News itself. On the other hand, I view the State Radio as a way to a goal. Actually, I think it's a good way, and I'm one of those people who think the need for state radios is not that it's shaped once and for all, engraved on stone and unchanging. They need to be developed, like other institutions, in the light of the current changing technology and environment. Regarding the report under discussion, the question arose. One member commented that her credibility was for two reasons: that one of the three members was linked to the Independence Party and, on the other, by its individual components. Then I'd like to say, a respectable president, that there were three members of the Committee, Mr. Svanbjörn Thoroddsen, known for their work in the area of corporate advisory and corporate management, a government official who has, among other things, come to the attention of the Government budget, and then, absolutely, the Eyþór Arnaldur, who has a full experience in the management of a government agency such as a community. For example, it comes from the cultural sector. It also knows well about the telecommunications sector. I don't think it's an up-to-date discussion here on The State Radio to take the lead in saying that the report is unmarkable and that it points to the individual. You should discuss the points of this matter, not try to run behind the individuals. I didn't hear from a talk. The senator made clear on this account an outstanding point of material differences. Of course, there is always a controversy over specific points in a report such as this, interpretation of them, or even whether a person considers them to be correct. To me, it's just that this sort of assessment is made of outside sources. Since then, the government radio and its leaders can, and will, have and have responded to their numbers, presented their data, and their viewpoints. Together, it builds a foundation that we generals can apply to us when we discuss, for example, what the radio bill is supposed to be. A respectable president. Hv. A senator asked me if my conversations with a radio director had given some kind of conditions for his continued activity. No such thing has been done, no such conditions have been arranged, and never been discussed. In terms of words that have failed, it is that if the radio bill falls, surgery needs to be taken down. So that's the radio manager's assessment, that's what it says itself, and that's what the radio director is likely to refer to. In terms of the pension fund, the report shows that the budget of the Kingdom News is about 6%. It can then be compared to the financial cost of various other institutions, but it is true that there are heavy pension bonds on this institution, and this is a thought - out. On the other hand, in terms of my plans or my opinion of the radio charge, I declared immediately last spring that I did not consider it to be a reason to turn it down, nor to raise it up, but that it was instead. That's what I've had before. As for an upcoming Parliamentary arrangement, I can't say anything about her subject. There has to be a lot of work to be done on, since I had then thought that people would look into it and lay the basis for a discussion about what the future of the Agency would be, what changes we would see in it in the years that would include the changes that have made in entertainment, various entertainments, educational materials, and cultural elements that are now coming from so many sources, which were not available to the public. [[The president calls.]] The main thing about me, that's my position, is that I feel that I need a modern media media market for State Radio but I don't think that it's a bit of a rock once and for all, how that institution should be built up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u38	A respectable president. Under current leadership, the operation of RUSH is now at a low angle, along with the increase in national planning. It would be absurd to punish for that success by now lowering the radio fee, the Agency's income. On the contrary, there is good reason to award such results, and it is essential that the minister of the jury make clear that he has the support of the administrative sector for maintaining the radio fee unchanged. If that is not the case, if the top of the board is going to have a hand-down on the radio charge of the year, then it can only be understood as a political approach to the radio, as an attempt to extort the radio from the criticism it's total government coverage at any given time. So I'm calling for the Minister to tell us about or to whether the administrative sector is going to pay the same amount or to lower it. In the country, no one is calling for his radio charge to be dropped by 116 dollars. every month if that means a massive cut-off by our national radio. There is also good reason to dispose of the State Radio of Pension bonds of Pension that were based on the establishment of a public community. If this has to be removed from the local community, it is probably a government agency or an automaton. However, the requirement for this is that the independence of the State TV will be guaranteed, its independence from the return of political gains by the executives of the administrations during this term, including those as important as those taking the lead in a budget. Of course, there are political practices that no way of living in a civilized society in 2015.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u39	A respectable president. Of course, there are many opinions about the Kingdom News and whether we should have a multicenter, multicenter, and so forth. It is only natural to have that discussion. I believe that there is a need for a state-of-the-art media agency in Iceland, but I also believe that if we are to make him strong and independent, he should be able to accept the responsibility to promote democratic discussions and be given cultural material, promote Icelandic culture, such as Channel 2 has done for rock and pop music. This is the part. There is no point in having a national radio and then digging here or elsewhere. I think the debate over the State Radio has been very unfair lately. I thought the report that was published was bad, and for many reasons, it was inconvincible. I don't think it's a bad type. For example, I find it unfair not to take into account that there is a great deal of work inside of the Internet to produce all kinds of new technology needed for a media medium in a changed society. I don't think it's fair to take it lightly, considering that in the last 18 months, a lean - free business has been the case. There's been a very gross economy, e.g. in facilities, and the cost of operating dropped by 4.7% last year. Sales of construction rights have resulted in the greatest debt in the history of VOLV. Inland matter has at the same time increased, material for children, domestic programs of all types of culture, for the country's settlements, and so on. RUSI'S gonna be fine. What do we have to decide here? To avoid lowering the radio fee, to turn it off to the State Radio, and to do something to fix a dramatic past problem involving the Agency's losing way to overwork Penitentiary commitments. [[The president calls.]] Can't we decide? So it's just dead, isn't it? We have a very powerful and good organization that we can be proud of and that we are doing our job.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u40	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. The proverb for taking up this discussion here and the highest. Ministers for his answers and others who have entered the discussion. Let me start by saying that the discussion may have grown a little over the last few days and after the RUS report, which was here for the discussion earlier, and the inquiry from then on. paritaprevir The Svandís's daughter, the Svavarsdóttir, has been in a large hole on both sides, both of them leaning toward cutting more from RUS and others. There is much in this report that is positive. We're always positive that we look at what we can do better in a business where public funds are being used. It's always positive, whether it's State Radio or other, because it's being run for public funds. This report contains positive points showing factors in this regard. It's also that when we talk about position and role, I'd like to agree with the people who have come here. My personal opinion, as well as the long - term opinion of the Agency, has been that it is important to have a national radio as a powerful cultural media medium. It is also important to have a neutral media on news, both here in the capital area, the region, and the current issues. This is well considered by a candidate in a newspaper article in which he says, among other things: ▪ RUV is for all of us. This culture, which has been with us for a long time, has been protected by the media, and the majority of the people want to be at their side. It is important to have a powerful, independent, objective multicenter medium, and it is our job here to ensure these factors at any given time. It is also quite natural for members of the local and community to consider how public funds are being handled by the state radio and all other institutions. [[The president calls.]] This has been done, and there are positive points in the report that point it out, and we should take them with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u41	President. It is strange that the minister of the revere of VOLV should participate in the approach now to this important institution. I think it's very serious that a minister can't do better than that in RUS. We've seen a series of events that have been threatened by the Agency that if they don't stick to the information in a news transfer, they'll be taken care of. Freedom of expression and the media freedom of the country are very serious. Because we're talking about economic issues related to the economy. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson's son. I wanted to ask the minister a few simple things. Who was responsible, and why was the personal rate of VOLV so low when it was converted to ohf.? When has RUSB got all the cake? When has RUSB got the whole nose tax? I wish for a minister to stand cool and strong in his feet and to keep his promise that RUS will get his nose tax from normal GDP and that what was promised will not be carried away with the radio fee. It's very important. I'd also like to ask the Minister how many U.S. University bonds must continue. [[Up front.]] No, you're not. But I wish for it. A senator will explain this better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u42	Mr. President. I appreciate this discussion. I roll it up with the highest. Ministers and others with these matters will do that if we are going to make long - term practical plans for any company, whether called RUS or anything else, we must have a solid budget, not just to one year, if the environment is to be safe. I think the management and executives of RUS have worked hard on the strategy adopted and criteria that match the declarations of the Ministry of Education, including that the radio charge won't go any further. It's been attributed to a turnaround that is now out of control. A radio manager put it so well: We've arranged the package, but we've kept the contents covered. A radio manager has also said that he assumes that the Ministry of Education is supported by the bill he is about to submit. He must have made that effort on autumn days for the budget, i.e. before it's over. There's also been an entrance to the pension fund, and a minister didn't answer it. An example is that of such commitments, in which the private nursing home should be supported within its ranks. It is quite early to realize that RUS is for the role that other media are not meant to play, but, of course, the income stock needs to be returned. I'd like to quote from the Union of Icelandic artists who say that the State Radio is the only member of the national media that is acting on Icelandic art in a targeted and organized way in all its media and the only media cohesion of the nation's cultural history for the immediate 90 years. RUV is focusing on national services, promoting national programs, powerful cultural elements, and putting their children first in order to improve their priorities. I want to make the words of a radio director my final statement saying that the state radio is supposed to be about content, and it's a uniting force in a society that's always becoming a dissociative and divisive. [[The president calls.]] With this guide, we should be able to look to the future with optimism so that tomorrow's government radio will be better than today's national radio.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u43	A respectable president. In my opinion, the report is an ideal opportunity and basis for the Council and for others to examine business and future VOLV. I have previously said that we must have the courage to take that discussion, not just on the basis of being a defender of the UNU or its unchanged position, but, rather, how we can best use limited funds to promote Icelandic culture, language, and production. I think there are three things that we must pause in the report discussed here. For a long time, far too long, the cost of ROV has been greater than money. Excess waste has been funded by loans, but the biggest problem is an expense, too large a house, too much overcrowding, and an overexploited distribution system to name something. Second, this report points to the fact that far fewer than previously used to use the services of RUS. Tgprentan decrease in the number of people who watch and listen to this multicenter Kingdom Hall is a fact, both because others offer similar services as well as because major technical changes have occurred. Then it seems difficult, and third, the points mentioned in the report are to obtain consistent information on the VOLV status. Despite the statistics reported by the Agency, what is right and what is wrong in them is still under way. Normal surveillance also seems difficult. This can be seen with regard to Government Accounting, the media board, the budget, and others. This has to be changed, and it has to be improved, because RUSU is an official society that has to endure such an opinion. I think most of the time, though. President, the fact that not only are changes needed here and now on VOLV projects but there is a need to make decisions about role, position, and existence for the future. I'm of the opinion that the management plan needs to be examined, that it needs to be examined by a competitive, advertising market and that it needs to be reduced to projects that can hardly be defined as its core or cultural role. [[The president calls.]] I trust and hope that the Council has the courage to deal with these and other questions in the business of RUS, which, in turn, guided by the less government execution, the responsible provision of public funds, natural competition, and the standing of the most important things in the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u44	Mr. President. For Icelandic society, it is very important to have a government radio that does not depend on commercial interests and is in good contact with the whole country. We need to make arrangements that the Kingdom News can fulfill its legal role as a powerful news medium and the field of education, culture, and exchange of ideas. So the government and executives of the Kingdom radio can promote the development of public radio policy, at least three issues by means of the General Assembly. They are all well - known and have been mentioned here during the discussion. First, the proposed financial bill suggests that the Allied will agree to a deal selling on the domain of VOLV. Salan would give RUV a substantial amount that could be used to pay off debts. Second, the problem caused by the pension bonds must be solved. The General Assembly adopted 2014's budget that the state accepts the pension debt of a very special nursing home. So it's probably a continuation that the government will solve the problems the Penitentiary will create in its own stock. Third, the radio charge must remain unchanged, but it does not withdraw as expected by the law. The highest invitation has been given. The Minister of Education will recommend a bill on the same radio bill shortly, and I expect the highest level. The minister later confirmed this in his case. In the report that we will discuss here, all the remunerations are extrapolated according to the index price of consumers, but pay has increased much more. Each person sees that if the radio rate falls from the current level, while wages rise considerably, both by employees and by contractors involved in RUS, the position of the RUSU becomes even worse, more cut, and the state radio is even further away from fulfilling its role as a public radio. Maybe that's what it's like to be the highest. The minister and the administrative body want and think it's in the best interest to work?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u45	A respectable president. Just about a year ago, when I saw the human selection that had taken over as middle managers at the National Radio, along with a new radio director, that the future of this institution was somewhat bright, there was now humanity that had performance, knowledge, and ability to reevaluate its role, to meet new challenges, and new times. I thought it was at the very point of my life. A minister of education would have done well. My concern, then, that the transition to the Agency's administration led to political interference had proved unnecessary, at least as I looked forward to a good thing, so that it would be well kept here. Now I find it necessary to say in this room that I am not satisfied with my jobs at all. Secretary of education. He needs to hear it too in this room that in the community, his work regarding the Kingdom Hall is not much of a pleasure. It's because of the events we've witnessed with the agency during the past year, first in the carpentry that characterized the sheepfold here at the last winter Summit of Christmas, and now, last, with the report brought by a member of the Independence Party, The Eyþór of Arnaldur. It's not possible, Mr. Honorable President, to the highest. The minister here reiterates to us not to discuss the man, or to go to the man as he is said, when the committee is clearly beyond the reach of men. At the very least, I am not prepared to include an independent member of the lndependence category for my discussion of the Kingdom News. Why is it coming to the top? Don't you just bring in his ideas about the future and we'll talk about how he wants to see this institution? [[The president calls.]] During the council, let us take political discussions about this. I'll take part in it, but I'm not gonna let it frame in for myself from a member of the Independence Party how I talk about these matters in the Polish.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u46	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion and welcome it. I firmly believe that there is a need for national radios to grow Icelandic culture, promote links to the country, for children, for the Icelanders, for immigrants, and for democratic discussions and news coverage. At any given time, though, it is important to consider how this role will best be handled in the way it is used at each time. So I welcome a report that is useful for the discussion to draw out different viewpoints and opinions, regardless of what I think of its unique points. For example, I think it is important that the way in which the digital distribution system was installed may not have been the most beneficial way for the nation. I am aware that at the time of that decision, there was already some suggestion that it would be wise to use funds that would be used to build up a distribution system all around the country in a different way, including the U.S. by uniting strength to the structure of fiber optics. However, this may not be the only case with RUS because we have developed a rule on communications that has prevented us from developing in scattered settlements and has led to the failure of the funding used in the construction of a distribution system. Much more has been done on this project than we may have had to spend overall if we had united our powers sooner.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u47	President. Thank you for your time. I think, though, at the end of it, I have to stop at the point where the pleasure of this discussion will be different from that of the highest level. The minister gives a very clear answer to the question about the status of the radio fee. He has said that he feels that way - that he speaks as if he were part of an undefined entity and has limited impact on the whole body, as expected by a senator - that the radio rate should remain unchanged. Politicians and senators in the key position of the greater part of the council, the greater part that supports the government, have claimed otherwise, have claimed that it should be lowered, including Chairman of the budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u48	Just go to the law. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u49	It's all over the place. She calls it up here, as in the past, that it's about just doing the law. V.E.G. A minister now needs to realize, not just his own position on the case, but that there is more part in the council, whether he speaks by the governments and the government, that the radio rate will remain unchanged as he himself has reasoned that it is important, as the radio director himself has explained, because I can convince the highest authority. Ministers that he will have extensive support during the council if he submits a bill of material, even though he may have to contend with individual opposers of the State Radio during the council, including the Council. Chairman of the budget board. At least he cannot step aside from this discussion today, different from speaking more clearly than he has so far. Is there more in the council for a private radio charge? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u50	A respectable president. Thank you for the advisor and what. All members of the council for the discussion. Given the occasion, I would like to begin by answering what was specifically addressed to me in the final talk on the radio fee. It's not that I just described my opinion in general, I said right in spring that I would put in a bill with the consequences that the radio rate will remain the same. I want to do it, so it's not just some opinion. On the other hand, I'd like less. A senator I know of. A senator knows well, that the government is not a multi-organized government and that I speak here of the lawsuit under me. I'd also like to make an observation, a respectable president, to the claim why. A senator, a advocate of speech, said that the chairman of the budget board is one of the special opponents of the Reich Radio. I think it's wrong. The chairman of a financial committee is just doing his job, which is trying to ensure that the use of funds provided by the State and the World Council is always the best and most transparent. I don't think it's the right way to approach it in this way. [[Up front.]] Then I also agree with what has been said in the discussion, that is a significant and remarkable achievement achieved by the management of the Kingdom News over the past few months, including losses. As for the business itself, reaching out for housing, building rights on the property, increasing production of domestic and cultural materials. I think it's important, and I think it's very important to imitate the emphasis The Kingdom Radio puts on children's material. I want to say, too, that I don't think there should be any change in this operation. We are to do so carefully researched, discuss it at Assembly Halls, and in the community before people make any such changes. I believe we should be open to this discussion and that it needs to be addressed. Then, regarding the declarations of individual senators, such as why. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur says they don't want to be bound to this report because an independent man was one of three members, I don't make any comments about it. [[The president calls.]] I don't insist on what to do. Councilmen that they stick to their language rather than to their own votes. I'd like to say, though, that this report is a fine foundation, along with the other information that has been presented on the Government Radio to discuss this aspect of the matter. Then, in the future, we will discuss other aspects of how we will achieve the goals set for Kingdom News.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u51	A respectable president. What I feel is that the Icelanders will in years to come, and hopefully longer, they will have good laws of nature that were worked out with a great deal of cooperation. The conversation was good, and they listened to all the views. This led to the historic reconciliation of bill to nature protection laws that we are about to vote for. However, before the vote begins, I'd like to draw attention to the fact that in the 17th count, the changes in the proposal of the Committee on the deck. 407 has entered the wrong number of articles that say "Environd 58" and are to be read: 60. ... and ask the President to correct this when it comes to paying a 17th bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u52	A respectable president. However, as soon as I'm glad that we're finally legalizing the 2013 legislation that we've kept postponing, there are still some things that you would have wanted to see differently. These legislations are not necessarily devoid of force, and we need to monitor the type of implementation that will be based on this legislation and perhaps especially on the precautions involved. Then continued work is planned for the public court. We are thrilled that work on these legislation is about to be completed, this grand revision that began 2009 when men started writing a white book on nature protection based on and legally established by the 2013 legislation. We welcome this conclusion, here are the media that we will stand by and support in spite of our dreams wanting to see the outcome a little different. [[The president calls.]] Still, we are satisfied with the conclusion and the progressive step taken here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u53	A respectable president. It's a pleasure that Iceland is finally developing a protection law that is better than the one in force from 1999. It is an improvement in nature protection in Iceland, which is an enormous step and it is long overdue. This work has a long lead and has occurred from the beginning of the last terms. I want to use this opportunity to thank all those who have a great deal of work to do this day and these conclusions possibly, since there are indeed many who have been involved in that assignment. As we have seen, it is not cool because there will continue to be a debate about nature protection in Iceland, but this is a historical and important compromise. So we can have a common understanding of what nature protection laws should be about. As we have to follow the procedure closely, we need to pay very close attention to the fact that these legislation will do what was intended for it and that it will protect Iceland's environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u54	A respectable president. I agree with what's been going on here. There is a major progress here with these laws approved. We've been successful in working on these legislations on the Environment and Transport Committee, and I would like, without any leaning, particularly the former Environment Minister, who has been no match for the work, as there's a reason. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir of this matter. What a joy it is to have the law No. 60/2013 at last. I'm glad you're here. Of course, there are compromises where in some cases you would have wanted to go further. We're not gonna make it through the road, and we're in the smaller part of it, and we've got a new arrangement. I'm going to call her to the 3rd. but it encourages consideration because it does not include any physical changes, but it is much more neat and elegant than the word found in the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u55	President. I congratulate the United States of Congress on having gained historical peace. As we have seen, it is, of course, so that all needed something to be yielding. I agree with what. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, and especially the former of the highest. Environment Minister and current crisis. paritaprevir My daughter Svandís's Svavarsdóttir is happy for this great phase of victory. At the same time, I'd like to commend the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son, for performing this great and important vision. This is the first step. We're here to protect our country's nature, it's so important, and here we all agree to do so, members of the country in 2015.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u56	Mr. President. I'm glad we're accepting this bill today. In some ways, this is a work that the General can well use as a role model, the practices that were carried out in this complex and large matter, of course, with conflicting views. I think there is also simply a call from the voters of the country, the people of the country, that we work together at the Council. As mentioned earlier, it was not a general agreement, but it is acceptable for this compromise. This is the way it works in life, and it usually requires that you reach some compromise in order to make peace. I express my deep satisfaction in this process and hope that it will be used as an example. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u57	A respectable president. I welcome the conclusion here, as well as the progress towards nature protection, and I reflect the growing consciousness of society on the importance of legal advisers in this area. However, as mentioned earlier, the law is not moulded in stone, and it has to develop further in the coming years, such as in terms of the public court, the introduction and role of rural society because of increasing tourism and overall vision of land use and protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u58	A respectable president. I'm standing up first and foremost to thank the Environment Commission for great work. At the same time, I would like to thank the members of the Generals for their work on this matter, for I know that a government writer has worked on an enormous amount of work. Then I'd also like to say that the members of the Environment Ministry have also gone a long way to achieve this resolution, resolution, or compromise, whatever we would like to call it. I've been watching it, and I think protection has been going on almost every day in the Ministry this less than a year, with a lot of emphasis on the nature protection issue being the principal issue of the Ministry of this year. [[The president calls.]] My heart is filled with joy now that we are approaching a vote on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u59	A respectable president. A- team 1st. The bill is now voting for the removal of the words of the 18th century to the end of the century, when it comes to a definition of what are alien species. For this reason, I would like to focus my eyes on what is said in a committee program on that point. Of course, this is expected to remain based on the professional assessment of the natural institution, which provides a list of these factors. Similarly, the committee and the committee claim that it is important to have the best knowledge each time, but there is some doubt about the classification of alien species for the 18th century. I wanted to make a decision on this subject in the committee's opinion. This may be relevant as the doubt very easily shows that data are not clear enough about when and when the definition is not valid.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u60	A respectable president. I agree with what. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir in her speech. I'd also like to explain that in the E-mer that changes the 19th team, which covers an uninhabited globality, we are taking out two words that are on the ground, where it stands the definition of uninhabited parts of the world but previously written so that it would be a place where men could be without interference with manpower or traffic with motorized vehicles on earth. This, of course, reflects the changed reality we have to face the fact that motor - driven vehicles are moving progressively, whether designed or unmanned, and by taking these words away, all motorized traffic is meant.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u61	A respectable president. It is as the priest said, from the ground you have come. I'd like to mention that I want to be in the interpretation of this law that it will be a little careful because if every flight is banned over an area of 25 miles2 in the wild, we're going a little far. I wish that the interpretation of the law would be human but not by all the most literal means, because if you forbid a flight, we have come a little far into nature protection. I understand it's nice to enjoy the solitude, but planes need air space. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-12-32.u62	At the beginning of the vote, a prominent member of the committee presented a slight correction at the 17th point of the transition. Therefore, the number will be corrected by the president, i.e. that your joint applies to 60. Gr., if no one says anything.
