ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u1	V.E.G. President. Stand by the nervous system is an effort that is going to establish the nervous system as its own developing goal in the United Nations. Every 15 years, the United Nations set up new evolutionary goals. That happened in the last year of 2000, and that will happen again in September of this year. Getting the nervous system as a developing goal would bring international attention to the problem and then increase funding to the scientific field. Governments have recently been working on the case of the united nations, but their propaganda is heavy. This could make a difference if it were possible for the Icelandic nation to expect rich people to make a global effort to gain insight into the nervous system's functions. A very interesting interview to a young man named Pétur Guðmundsson, who was badly injured, is published in the Friday newspaper. He did not insist that he be confined to a wheelchair forever. He is the only person in the history of the Grensás department with severe spinal cord injury rising from the wheelchair. He tells of his story and of the remarkable and satisfying results he has enjoyed. His history has given hope to many, reminding us once again the importance of our nervous system. It is also worth calling attention to the fact that a year ago, the body of Congress agreed with a synopsis on the medical treatment of spinal cord damage, which shows that we, who are employed here and the government in Iceland, are willing to carry out the task. Often, though, it is the grass root that reaches the longest. Iceland and I need to maintain our nervous system and thus do much good to mankind. So I challenge everyone to go on the page of the campaign, stand by the nervous system and sign it. Give individuals who have been in a situation similar to that of Pétur.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u2	V.E.G. President. The performance of various groups of welfare services has now been in progress for the ninth week. I mention radiologists, biologists, naturalists, midwives, and now nurses have joined us. This is a serious situation for the service that these people perform and for themselves and their families. Now you can hear a well - known speculation as to what causes the debate to run in the knot that we see. It is called a distorted process, the unwillingness of the hired people to negotiate, but the conclusion remains the same, that strikes are evil, and as a result, it is tried to undermine the strike. The right to strike and strike are emergency measures. But they are also a security valve in a democratic society. People who have been from work and who have paid no wages for the ninth week are not making such fun of themselves. It can be said as clearly as possible that they are not prepared to carry out their duties, to carry out their duties, to perform the services they have accomplished, at the ideals available. This must be the government, this must be the Ministry of Financial Affairs, the negotiaters of these groups, separate and sit down and achieve treaties that can be settled and guarantee peace. I ask: Is it possible that a government that puts up a bill here at the General Assembly to secure superivers in the financial world petitioning over their super-employment, that such a government can legalize the general wages rather than sit down and negotiate with it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to come up here under the council because the pleasant news this morning was made to a financial committee that almost six years of work is now over, a job that is about to be raised, and a renewal of the law on public finances. This issue had been in progress for four years, and then when elections began in 2013, a new government began ruling. In this case, Bjarni Benediktsson's minister proposed in his name on the fall days of 2013. For almost two years, the budget board that works for the matter has been discussed, received to them foreign and Icelandic guests and clients, worked it in a very good way in all categories of financial committees, and I thank the committee members of a financial committee very much for good cooperation and work, as it is impossible to say that the work was working very well. It has only been professional, politicalally abandoned outside the door of a financial committee, so a very good conclusion and solidarity has been achieved in the matter, taking into account all the viewpoints and working primarily on professional terms, not political. Therefore, it is boring to say that this matter became a political matter this morning, since a smaller percentage of the legal committees in whole is not able to be on the committee's list more than half of the legal committees. So I report to the Congress that the public financial bill is coming up for a discussion at the council with two members of the committee and is very sad, considering how successful the work has been until today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u4	Mr. President. Hv. With Ríkharðsdóttir's daughter, president of the Independence Party, offered an interesting suggestion that only women would order the Council, if I had just noticed, even for two years. Now it is not new to think that even our affairs would be better off if women had more control over things. I remember that at a great crisis conference in Paris late summers 2009 on OECD, when the world licked the wounds after the collapse of a New Free Hospitalist Hospital, I proposed an obligation to a variety of celebrations, of course, it was a great male society. I suggested that women be in control of the world for 50 years, and we see if the world would not be any more peaceful and more responsibilities would be shown in the economy if women were to be in charge. I think it would have been an interesting experiment. But again to the idea of what? paritaprevir Ragnheins the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, who I don't take as a joke, but as a real message. At least I have a suggestion on how we could begin, and it is that we men at the council and our guardians as far as we can go, so that the Council will be appointed exclusively to women at the meeting on June 19, the following day. That would be appropriate. Time and again, the Allied Council has been appointed exclusively to men. I think that it would bring attention even beyond the stones of the land if an entire assembly were to gather only women and ideal women because this would simply happen by bringing women into the house of men who treat them. I'm ready to go out there and challenge my colleagues to the same kind of sex. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u5	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir responded to my words under the end of the Council's work on Wednesday, as if I and the government were opposed to the fact that disabled people were going to live in an apartment house because I want to see some changes in the building order. She also mocked the House of Congress by asking if we knew what absolute design meant. A structure is far more than a universal design. The rules that changed into the Council of Ministers have been changed three times, and most agree that it needs to be adjusted even further. I have studied the universal design of a building order, and I think it is unfair. Instead of striving to have a full-scale kit, all should have one. Absolute design is particularly unfair for young people who are trying to get a roof over their heads. It is just as unfair to build an apartment home for wheelchairs, as it would be to build no housing for disabled people. The cost of building has increased by as much as 25%, up to 46.5 million of the smaller apartments, and the cost of reaching young people who are looking for their first available apartment. The last person I speak of is that disabled people do not have access to an apartment building. Britain has made it a point to have a certain percentage of the homes built for the disabled. I think it's worth looking at. On the other hand, all public housing is not necessarily to be exclusive to everyone. The fight between the disabled has been for public housing and shame that it is not okay in 2015. More in the Regulation than in universal design, I feel that it is necessary to rethink, as an example of isolation, ventilation, and extramarital space. Buildings are the responsibility of owners, not managers or specialists. [[The president calls.]] There is also a lack of quality structure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u6	Mr. President. Older citizens and disability pensioners have expressed their dissatisfaction with the government's tax reductions, that they do not lie down with them. The tax system is simplified, and large groups of people are not benefiting from the changes, nor is it expected that a simpler tax system would be a more righteous tax system, but it does. The right policy of the government to simplify the tax system is set out in the budget that we are discussing today, and it was submitted to the General Assembly of April 1 and the Supreme Court. Prefectly approved in the government. It thus attracts attention to the highest. Last May, the prime minister said that tax changes considered in terms of collective agreements did not wipe out the tax system but, in fact, failed to increase the rate of taxes. In fact, one end of the government had already approved a reduction in the number of tax steps in the government budget. Another matter to those who have to rely on social security benefits is that the GDP is expected to improve social security by 1% above inflation per year over the course of 2016-52019, but the increase is expected to increase by 2% in case of higher probability. According to the Social Security Act, the improvements in social security, social legislation, child support and sensibilities, disability and accidents should be changed annually according to the individual budget, and to the decision made, pay should be taken into account, although they will never increase less than the prices in the index price of consumers. I'm not sure, Mr. President. Generals recognize that with support to the budget plan, they are agreeing to violate the social security laws and to add to the discrepancies and inequities, but their view of the matter is likely to be presented in the current debates.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u7	V.E.G. President. In view of the fact that there have been some of the growing problems in society, I would like to point out facts that appear on the Habitat site. It shows that Iceland's income spread evenly between people in 2014, but previously it has been observed in the Agency's biography study, first conducted in 2004. The assay is a fifth index and a Giin score, they measure the distribution of revenues, and this does not result in a lower degree in the biography study. The fifth index shows that the highest fifth fifth had three times the largest income in 2009 or 29.6. The Gini factor would be 100 if one person had all the money in the community, but 0 if everyone had paid back. The latest year, 2013, provides an international comparison, shows that Iceland had the lowest gin and fifth index in Europe, after Norway. It also shows that in 2014, the proportion of subjects below the low limit of income or at risk of social isolation is the lowest observed in the biomarker study. Then I'm also going to allow myself to quote Professor Gylfi Zoëgi's words in economics, which he writes in the lead on March 10, with the permission of a president: Despite some covert losses, last loss has been successful. Work has increased, the subsidence of pay, the debt of homes and businesses has decreased, the ratio of the state's debt of land production is down. The debt of rural society is intertwined, the change in business with foreign countries, the debt of foreign lands. With the money policy, the fluctuations of the national industry have diminished. Inflation is very low, and it has remained for the purpose of the past year. Of course, you can always do better. However, as the facts are examined, much is clearly in the right direction in the society that is led by the reign of Sigmundur, son of Davíð, the son of Gunnlaugsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u8	A respectable president. A report in the Morning newspaper reported on a reduction in volunteer initiatives in practical projects on the road to Vega. I'm afraid it's a story that's not surprising. The road has had to be turned down unrealistic offers because there are fewer invited ones and there are even one or two who have invited to action. The contractor business has collapsed after the serious collapse of the plant. Why? A number of reputations were committed against innocent individuals and businesses in the contractor business after the collapse. Devices were taken from individuals and sold at the low prices, and families and individuals were walked near them. As a result, banks and financial institutions and government agencies are following innocent people for the next 10 to 15 years because of circumstances that people had nothing to do with getting into. Their numbers have come to a black list. A respectable president. Is it not time to clear the reputation of these individuals and their companies, making them acceptable to people in the community? The collapse must not accompany these people for years to come. Even banks have changed their social security numbers, and this has no effect on their economic situation. A respectable president. I encourage members and ministers to use us so that these individuals and their families will be freed from the shadow of the collapse, which they had no part in creating and their march will not continue for the next 10 to 15 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u9	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss the challenges we face. We, here on behalf of the nation, work hard at a conference hall and committees, and we are determined to work on important issues and have blown off our original council plan. At the same time, there have been labour agreements, working on a disposal plan, is in final meters to enter the Parliament to initiate what can be called the implementation phase of that program. A week ago, contracts signed at the general labour market, reaching the year 2018, included contracts that cover up about 70 levels. The paymen. Among them was the goal that the lowest wage is highest, 300 of you. Dec., and the percentage increase will then decrease the pay level. Pronunciation of the highest. Governments weighed heavily on these main objectives, but it proposed major measures, including some of them. in the welfare and housing sector, with increased supply of social and chemical activities for less tenants, and in the tax themes with a change in income taxes for the increase in provisional wastes and total loss of effect of up to 16 billion. V.E.G. The government has placed great emphasis on the vital challenge we face to maintain stability. A contribution to collective agreements was emphasized in improving the cooperation of state funds, money policy, and employment markets with the establishment of a national budget. In terms of the disposal of currency a high priority for public interests is that emissions are not stable. It is clear that all parties contributed significantly to the objectives of collective agreements, and it will test all parties, the whole society, the companies and the public and the public, to ensure continued stability. That's our biggest challenge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u10	A respectable president. At the end of a contract involving a general labour market or part of it, the government came to and offered, among other things, a proposal for national interest. I'm just hoping, a respectable president, that this National Council will review, among other things, the way we can put a contract into a general labour market and a contract of public employees so that, as we've discussed, we'll receive, like a model dresser contract, and we'll be able to establish a contract in other parts of the North countries, and we'll be the top priority of a national interest agreement to attack it. In addition, a respectable president, I would like to mention, even though it hurts left men, that there were members of the labour market as well as the labor movement and the commercial organizations who said yes to a simple tax system, as commanded by the government. The labor movement and the economic organizations said yes because they rely on them and believe that this is a benefit to the people they're making. The global re-examination of the social security system is also in progress, but here we call it that the poorer and older citizens receive the same levels of income as those given in the recently established general labour agreement. The overall reexamination of the social security system is being guided by the care of these groups, the pensioners, and the desperate. Let's let that job finish before we call something else loud.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u11	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by talking only about what the Senate does. I know some guys are out there. Congress officials will accept my speech, but I hope that I will have the opportunity to deliver it without call. As the environment has been around this workplace, it is hardly acceptable for people to work on it, rumors, daggers, nicknames, backbiters, and borings. I have always been grateful for the values my parents sent me out to live, including that politeness cost nothing, that I should respect older people and treat others the way I want them to treat me. I want to remain guided by these values, but unfortunately, many people are affected by their behavior. This is very difficult for me by members of Congress. I don't have much hope that things will change after this speech, but if we're going to sit together in this room, we're going to have to start a better lifestyle. For instance, it would be right away if you did not have to sit in the way of badness and rudeness toward your next partner and group members. In case of a moment. Councilmen like this kind of people, I suggest that they bring it to their council meeting or back room in the house. If this were someone else's workplace, and I'd think of calling my coworkers a spineless, lint, a talibana, a riot, and a dictator, if I'd compared them to men who have committed terrible crimes, massacres, or anything else that puts a black mark on the history of the world, it wouldn't be long to call me on the carpet. For, Mr. President, I suggest you do so. Councilmen begin to consider only their values and human relationships at this workplace. Also, I suggest we all resign, for it's, for it's, for it's, well, the minimum goody not to do anything for people. Finally, I stress that we are trying to reach a conclusion on 60 West Coast Road Chef Forest as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u12	A respectable president. I think we're all going to listen to them urgent. The senator mentioned earlier. I'm not going to begin to correct all the things that have happened here that are not quite true, but I must say, in order to be perfectly clear, to the highest. The government hasn't brought a bill to secure their proposals. Sadly, as far as financial contributions are concerned, they are practiced by public candidates. People can have all the opinions on a number of primary sites, but they are not a guarantee of a proposal. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir who said it was over that it was finally out of nowhere. The budget bill on public finance, which has been in progress for many stewards for many years and especially for the last two years. There have been 25 conferences. A legal committee that has reviewed the case this year and five meetings in the last winter. We've had two trips abroad to study the issues involved, both current and current. It's a legal committee, and it's a last what. It's a legal committee. Sweden was taken to see how things are handled there, and in effect, the Swedish model set here is the one. There have been calls for experts, especially from the AGS, who have made their comments and suggestions. Happily, there has been a materialistic agreement on the matter of the committee. But the big thing is, this isn't just what it's about to be accepted in the law. If we should reach the target of the law, that means that we would need to have a change of procedure and a change of business discussion, not only in this council, but also in the media. It is just so that in the countries we would like to compare ourselves with them, it is not enough to have irresponsible proposals or irresponsible suggestions when it comes to public finances. Then the person or the politicians will just be blown off. [[The president calls.]] I hope, more dignified President, we get to discuss this in detail because it's very important. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u13	V.E.G. President. I'd like to make the words of a surgeon whom he dropped for one or two days in an interview, to mine, where he said, by permission of a president, he was impressed by the tolerance of patients who silently carry their grief in the work performed by health care providers, to be patient. I am deeply concerned about this nine - week strike. There are nearly 2,000 workers in the Land Hospital who are in a strike, and propaganda is very heavy. This jawade will have an effect long after it dissolves. The research data has been collected that needs to be reviewed, 9,000 samples, and I don't know what has not been done, has been modified, etc. I agree with it. paritaprevir In his speech earlier, Ögmundur's Jónasson said that the strike right is an emergency and a relief. That's right, he's holy, he's an emergency. And that is why I ask myself, " How is it applied to me in this case?'For it seems that the strike court is used to cause a third person, who cannot bear his hand for his head, nor in the matter most damaging. This is a tragic development that must change. The effect of the strike on patients and their caregivers is completely intolerable. So I challenge all concerned to resolve this issue in any way necessary for this health - care situation to continue. It's completely annoying, and it's embarrassing to all of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u14	Mr. President. Now BHM strikes have lasted less than nine weeks, and nurses have been on a strike for about a week and a half. Unfortunately, there is no evidence that there is no increase in negotiations, and it is even more tragic that there is not much agreement to be seen, not at the top. Secretary of the budget or the highest. Secretary of health. When doctors went on a strike not long ago, the importance of negotiating was high. When negotiations began, a statement was published by the government, the medical community of Iceland, and Iceland's Surgeons. As you can see on the welfare Ministry website, the importance of the health system and the willingness to strengthen and improve it was stressed. Where is that emphasis now? It is clear that our health system is not able to tolerate the present state of life. Our health - care system cannot tolerate the impression of the workers working there, and their work performance is not appreciated when it comes to remuneration and working conditions. However, in newspapers during these strikes, we read about building a personal core of health care. This involves shifting money from common funds to individuals who are planning to make money through the illness of others. Is it where we want to use the Icelandic medical system?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u15	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u16	This question must be answered, as it is up to us who are making decisions as to how the money of the State is set aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u17	Mr. President. It saddens me that the chairman and vice president of the budget board decided this morning to take out the official financial bill on a conflict. We've been looking for negotiations for the past few days to finish the case, but here they are rejoicing that this is how it happened. A respectable president. If you do not feel that you need to take into account the factors that make the situation even better, it is not enough to do well. It is not enough to count meetings, it is also necessary to consider results, and there is a need for respect for what is presented there. It is quite amazing at the end of the council that the decision to break up the peace that would otherwise have been open to such an enormously important matter is to be made. Change in discussion and method of action, how would it happen when people make such a decision? We in the smaller part of the legal committee submitted a book this morning after, as I said, had been in the contract search for the past few days to keep the case until the fall, where it would then be one of the first things that would hopefully be accomplished in a more extensive reconciliation than here. We have a general desire in the smaller part of this bill, but we don't think that's the end of it. It is a specific presentation that we believe is needed for members of the councils, information on the number and scope of causes of suffering and issues is not available until the fall. This is part of the core information that needs to be available and is involved in the treatment of the matter, which is very important in this context, the budget and the preparation. It's been on the bus for a long time with the most skilled experts, but it's not quite about to end. Finally, I'd like to say that by this morning, the adjustments were not made in final form, but are in the range of the 25 Sources of 30. They have not been reviewed in complete agreement, investigated to an adequate degree, and sought out the facts of the professional groups involved in this event at the outset. If the bill's objective is to be achieved with a work ethic, it should be in line with the professional processes involved. It's not done here, which is terribly unfortunate. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u18	A respectable president. As the president knows, people will register to the end of the program, which is now being completed and the registration will begin at the end of the day. 8. This morning at 8:02 p.m., I sent a request to be on the rosary, and I didn't make it. Some aspects of how this part of the program is assigned must be revised. This literally isn't working. I'd also like to call attention to the fact that there were seven candidates in the Vocabulary Index of 15 who found out. That's good. I like to listen to them, and sometimes it's interesting. But I would like to point out these fine agents of the Agency here at the council that we are here for the program, that is a general program, and we don't really hear them at all. For example, I would like to challenge the Prosecutors to participate today in the debate over the budget for the next four years. Do they agree with what is said there?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u19	The president wants to say for this reason that the rule is simply the first one to come, first to go. In the order that they announce their interest in participating in these discussions, they are enclosed in the Convention's Vocabulary Index. However, the president cannot explain why. A senator was number 16 of those who wished to speak up this time. Otherwise, the president would like to say that as regards the participation of individual members of this team, we know that these discussions are very variable. Sometimes few speak from certain categories, sometimes more. It is an accident that will determine this or some situation that the president cannot understand otherwise. Other than that, the discussion about the President's conference board continues. The president would like to have this discussion about the President's conference board and hope that at least there is no intention of taking up any material discussion that took place before and earlier in the discussion of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u20	Mr. President. I'd like to call the president's attention to what happened at the moment. This morning, when the public financial bill that has been carefully developed for a long time by four financiers, was torn out with speed and confusion. The vice president and chairman of the legal committee crossed here and rejoiced. Actually, I wasn't going to mention it, and I didn't mention it yet because I was hoping that the head of the Independence Party, the highest. We could figure out how we could handle this important matter in terms of harmony and harmony into the next fall. There are certain loose ends that need to be shaken, and we can easily work on it during the summer and then settle the case fully in September, but that coven was not there. [[The president calls.]] I pray to the highest. Ministers that he will walk into the matter and find out how to find this passage that is better than it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u21	Mr. President. First of all, it is a clear desire for solidarity on this matter and I believe it is very important, this is the case of that kind, that it is important that it lasts a long time and is made a law of broad solidarity. Besides, I have to admit that I am now at least trying to influence the way the above mentioned matters happen. There must be members of the committees finding an impact on the final outcome of issues. On this matter, I'd like to say: I suggested it a year ago for introduction, and then I brought it in the fall. I had hoped that by June 2015, the Times would have been enough to complete the case. But that conversation has not been completed. A senator is referring to whether or not we can find a point between agreeing to get better together on this and bringing this into law later this year. During that conversation, I can't rule out anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u22	Mr. President. In the light of words, the highest. As a minister, I view the matter as being done here with the committee's list of parts that have become more difficult to negotiate. It's been tried to find solutions, and I don't think it's enough of a conversation between parties to stay out of a case as big as this, whether it's between the executives and the Congress or whatever. Hv. The chairman of the budget announced a political change in the committee's opinion, where she thought she was meeting the smaller parts, with the committee's opinion this morning when the case was taken out. In view of this, I have serious doubts that the reconciliation is rich on the part of the United States of Congress, i.e. The House of Congress. If the highest. A minister believes that he can lead something to smell something now is good, but if he did not want to interfere with it in any way before, you wonder, of course, why it should happen today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u23	V.E.G. President. I'm coming up here to say the word, OK? paritaprevir It's Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir. There must be a review of arrangements in the past for the Senate's work. I've wished we could get a report from the highest level. Prime Minister on the labour market situation. The request at the council at this time has not yet been made, and this is the main factor for which such a situation can be expressed. I haven't, in the six years I've been sitting here at a council - often a long meeting - applied to me as a family situation when it's time to vote for an extended assembly meeting. But now, Mr. President, I'm going to say, at 8:00 a.m., I'm usually pretty busy, just for family reasons. Is that how it is, topv. Mr. President, that I should configure a request to automatically get to the speaker file on my computer so that it will always be sent eight in the morning, but not by, perhaps, news in the morning, that I would like to express myself on something and be able to react? Is it, then, that we should just use this tomato in our outlet?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u24	The president will have to admit that he does not know how to handle that kind of thing, so he can't recommend anything in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u25	A respectable president. I'm here to bear volleyball from members of the Agency. It's hard to be a candidate at the council, either talk too little or we talk too much. Following the recommendations that fell here on the platform, I'd like to state that I spoke in the hearing of the hearing yesterday. I'm the 1st producer in the first talk on the program, when these comments are closed about the President's conference board. And then we are forbidden to talk about the job of the council. A respectable president. I just don't know what's going on with the smaller parts of the council anymore. Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. Council members of a budget board and complain that a finished matter has been taken out of the committee this morning, being discussed in the budget for the next two full years, with all the guests I have listed. It was disappointing. paritaprevir Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir Bjartri would not take the fight with us in the greater part, for it is mature, but it followed the former government classes in not being involved. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] It has now become so that the smaller portion of it will settle differences over every case here at the council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This is no exception, and I call it a minor abuse. [[The president calls.]] That's all there is to say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u26	A respectable president. The case was taken out. How can that be a minor abuse? Just so we'll just try to figure that out. I hope that people rethink this only because the wish from the memory was that they would consider certain aspects of this matter in an attempt to achieve a solidarity on this subject. Its Society - it's a solid agreement, but the minority wanted to take a closer look, and I don't understand why it could not be done unless you want to show your Senate grants because there's talk here that much of it is up to you. I would've wanted to see men take this off. But I was going to come up here to say the word with what. paritaprevir I believe Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, that the council presidents and prime committees should set over the way the council's work has developed and find ways to change this so that time will be most effective. First comes to the conference room, first we get -- it's just a question: Should this not be the way it should be and skip this e - mail system?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u27	Mr. President. I'll try to explain to our president how this works. This was once a time when people had to come to the Assembly Hall, if they were to talk under the title of the council, raise their hands, and ask for the word. Then they went into sending e - mails, that would be much more comfortable, at 8 o'clock in the morning. Then the technology developed and it can be sent by email, and that's just what's about to happen. The senators will just start putting it on their own - some of them ahead of others, me and the Pirates may be the first to help those who are interested - so we're just doing our jobs all the time. If we see that we don't have to make use of the space, we'll take a look at it. This is what should come, Mr. President, if this is not to be revised. One way is to go back to the old arrangement, because this new arrangement does not function through the technical development, so those who want to talk at the council's office are to be assigned to the council and asked to speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u28	V.E.G. President. I was going to discuss the activities of the council. I agree with what. paritaprevir Jón Þór Ólafsson. We're not asking to get out of their team of candidates, and I'm very sorry if the candidates are uncomfortable here at the Assembly Hall. But it's not our fault, it's the community outside that's complaining about them and not us. [[Up front.]] When meetings begin in 8:30 in the morning, I have to leave Aranesp for about twenty minutes to eight. It must then be established in a transport program that you have a chance to stop on the way to send a message unless you use it to use the clock on the system. We all agree that we would like to find out. We would also like to have more discussions at the council on certain matters. Perhaps we should take up certain subjects and discuss them in an open discussion within a time frame. We need to talk about a lot of things. What is remarkable is that when we take matters for a long time, as we've been through a few recent events, they've always improved. Many indications, ideas, and adjustments have been made because all members of the Parliament had to consider the matter. In some cases, we have faced the challenge of saying, "God help me, is this being done through? " because you don't have the opportunity to examine everything that is happening in all committees. I'm waiting for the highest. President to consider this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u29	A respectable president. I was surprised when the chairman of the budget board, anyway. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, and vice president came up here, declaring that the memory of the case was not taken out of the case this morning; so go to suggest that this is my political part against the greater part, do it to me, that I jumped on the wagon with previous government groups, I don't understand such a speech, but this may show the poles of the committee. We've made such an effort, I think, and I don't even think this case is political. It's just a lot of progress. [[Up in the hall: right.]] It's not quite ready - not in our opinion and more important: it's not a matter that we have to discuss here under the cover of the last night of the council. [[Foreground on: Yes.]] We need time for this, and we should give this important matter time. I'm glad to hear it. Secretary of finance is ready to come here with a solution and a way to make peace. [[Up front.]] I'd like to say, Mr. Honorable President, when I receive these charges about something different from political interests. þm. Vigdís Hauksdóttir brings this expression to mind: Many people keep me. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u30	A respectable president. This point has long since ceased to be about the President's conference board. I just wanted to get involved in the discussion here when it comes to public financial matters. We have two options, that is, the form or the material. I suggest, sir, a respectable president, that we keep discussing the matter. This is where everybody's got agents, huh? Council members of the budget, stating that they agree with the issue, agree that the matter is resolved, do not agree that the case of the committee has been handled so extensively. Then I suggest that we start discussing the matter of conflicting material things. Let's just work on it, then. Then, of course, we'll find out, with this case like any other, whether we'll finish it in the spring or in the fall. If we want to finish this, let's get into it materially. I've called for it, and still called for it, from what. Congress members of the administrative body, who are members of the committee, have brought in a material problem in the matter of disagreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u31	...the focus of the World Cash Fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u32	Why? He's not on a budget board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u33	He's part of this...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u34	How many times does a president have to be less cool. Councilmen say that if they want to have a place to talk to each other, this is where they're going to do it over the General's symposium? Not in the current way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u35	A respectable president. Plan is up. Time's up. We're out of time. But here people are trying to talk about how to complete Congress. That conversation has been held at the scene of the council groups and presidents, and we are, I think, all aware that at this time, all of us need the conversation. All of us, therefore, need to be careful in our relationships, both materially and physically. I think that much of the body of Congress is on that line, so I'm concerned that more of the legal committees are this morning taking such a big issue out of the committee in controversy. Not only so but because of taking the matter out this morning, the leaders of the Committee pride themselves. I express my concern about this most important legal committee that makes this most important and dramatic case so hard that it is so trapped in an old - fashioned military campaign of out - of - date politics, hoping that members of the General Assembly will be representatives that will help them see for themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u36	Mr. President. Of course, there is no need to remind that a work programme is over, but now we're just trying to land the council. In this climate, a greater proportion of the budget committees decide to rip out a huge interest in all of us and on public finance, both government and local financial matters, to rip it out of conflict to discuss what is happening in the present atmosphere when we are trying to land the council and to complete it. I think it's obvious that this is a national-discrimination operation and I'm sorry about that, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u37	A respectable president. Plan's over. Where is the prime minister? Let's go to 30 instead of 15 members of the council. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u38	A respectable president. I can't help but come up here and protect us candidates. We talk too much or too little. What can we do if we wake up before others and are earlier to sign up for the council? [[Balds of laughter in the chamber of Congress.]] I didn't register, out of consideration for my parts, for jobs, I knew that more candidates were here. I was going to talk about a sailor's day and a recent ruling of the Supreme Court where it is confirmed that the country's premium on a fishing warrant is not available. There's a lot I'd like to say. We runners only use the program correctly and speak under the right side. We speak at the council's office, we speak in speeches, but we do not participate in the odd play that is going on over the President's conference board, only to a small degree. [[Balds of laughter in the chamber of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u39	Yes, I'm a candidate. - V.I.E.L.L.I.E.L.D. President. It is a little fun to discuss this part of the program, the President's conference board, and the activities of the council. This will discuss whether or not the computers are set to get to the rosary, a complaint about too many candidates in the past regarding the activities of the council, and some things. I want to state that I live in Skagga and have children I have to come to school in the morning. I am determined to leave for work, and the car is often out in the roadside at Kjalarnesi to enroll me in the council, where the car is often seen. With all problems, there is a solution. I don't set computers, and I wake up in the morning to get myself into this program. It is difficult to tell whether you speak too much or too little, but I prefer to say rather fewer words rather than keep repeating the same load that has appeared hundreds of times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u40	If this discussion could be covered, the president would want to say that it is a matter of course that we take it again and again on the scene of the presiding committee, and therefore with members of the council, in an effort to find a better form on this program, the Housework of the Parliament, an important part of the program, according to the president's opinion. There have been many indications. We've been trying to deal with them. This is the arrangement that we will meet at one time to be the best we could find. If we can find a better way to ensure that the senators can participate in this discussion to as much as possible, based on the fact that the Congress limits it to half an hour each time, then, of course, the President will be the first to celebrate it. True, it was a little strange for the President to come from Porta's senator to unmount the technology and computers in this relationship, but for a long time humans can try, and perhaps it's a manual system that the president knows so much better than the computerized, despite all the best. Let's just try to talk calmly about this in the company of prime committees and members of the council instead of giving us a heated discussion on this matter, which must just become a solution for us. Perhaps the president should present some sort of challenge to the council to bring some good ideas into the bag and have it democratic, transparent, open, as is the custom of speaking about today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u41	President. An old acquaintance of us here at the council, Þráinn Bertelsson, is familiar and fertile, calling this part of the program about half an hour of idiots. This may not have been because they were wise men who spoke up to this point. Rather, he felt that these groups were not organized and that they were not much united. Of course, members of Congress need an opportunity to address a matter that they like or discuss at times, but when one body of members attend to this team so that they set themselves up almost every day, it will be more important for others to make this happen. A limited resource means a saying that the president is very familiar with, that phenomenon. But, of course, it is possible to adopt a new program called Early Prayer. Then the nation would truly listen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u42	President. I thank the president for taking my request seriously because it was meant very seriously. It would also be good if the senators listened to what was said, and I did not complain that the candidates spoke here, I said I enjoyed listening to it. I complained, however, that we do not hear their views on the programs that appear here before the council. Today, we are going to talk about government funds until the next four years. It has a policy on how to deal with the state money and politics, the income exchange, or whatever we call it for the next four years. I'm going to challenge the candidates who didn't speak in the first session, I think one of them talked, I think I'm right, there's usually one senator who's talking here in the Senate, Willum Þórsson Þrsson, and you have to thank him. But I challenge more people to participate in the regular sessions of the council here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u43	V.E.G. President. There's been a lot of discussions here at the council Hall on the matter that we now vote for, the Council of the Management Board of Iceland. This discussion has been rewarding and has shed light on various offenses, many of which we believe are on this bill. The bill's articles aren't all bad, and I specifically mention an adjustment form that comes from a greater part of the management committee and is originally created by the IMI Institute and is of the good quality. But in the left movement, we will sit by all articles of the bill in order to emphasize our will to consider the whole matter of the Senate in a administrative and monitoring committee that will get the case discussed after this discussion. I'm glad that the vice president of the Committee who spoke here to the majority of them has taken a good look at the criticisms that have been presented. He has made no commitments on his part or on the greater part of the committee, which is in the light of what we are sitting by at the vote for all the articles on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u44	A respectable president. This vote reflects the attitude of the council. In 2011, in the time of the last government, we are presented with an proposed change to a law that was adopted. There's a law-enforcement here, but members of the United States and the Left Green don't think they have to do it. Here is an important case on the trip that fell into the legal process, i.e. that a minister has full authority over his legal body and his institutions, which is of utmost importance in the context of the separation of lawgivers and executives. There's been a lot of energy and time in these discussions here at the council, as well as discussions about the rules of morality. It's strange to me that those members of this law, when these were last season, do not support it, in view of the fact that these are improvements in their own case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u45	A respectable president. I'm glad the spirit's cool. The chairman of a budget board does not hover over lakes on a board of administrations and monitoring committee. It has been agreed to take the matter back to the Committee to try to improve its outlook, and we have comments to all of the articles on the bill. Let's see what we got on with it. So the company is going to sit by unless we change the motions of the more part we think of the good, so we're going to vote with it. We will sit next to another one of their confidence and faith in the continuing work of this committee, as was done in the preceding winter, in trying to make peace and harmony where we have succeeded, end up with a fine foreman and his reserve, where we can communicate rather than dissension.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u46	Mr. President. This bill of prime minister makes two things: 1st par. The bill is given greater authority to the Ministers, while the last article of the bill reduces the responsibility. There is to be more authority to the minister and less responsibility, to reduce monitoring by the way they use it. They're supposed to kick out an independent committee to follow protocols, take the initiative to investigate them, take the initiative to contact a Community organization in Iceland and abroad in uplifting and improving them, to reduce corruption. This committee is to be thrown out, and in return, some superintendent-substantial phone in the Ministry itself should be installed to monitor these objects. It's a bad bill, and you really ask yourself: Is Prime Minister, in this year's journey, suggesting that a minister's authority be increased and his responsibility decreased? Of course, we vote against the first and last article, we're sitting by in the other articles, and we're going to include the adjustment proposal, which, though, puts in more information to the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u47	A respectable president. I rejoice that this case will return to committees and trust that it will be improved there. As we have seen, a prominent member of this committee has been prepared to make compromises when necessary. We're going to sit by the case but we're going to accept the change, which is for the good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u48	Mr. President. I think I have to point him. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir says the name is taken away. It was the king of Norway, Magnús, who has that in history. Besides, what one person thinks is a relief doesn't make one feel like one's problem. It is not in the power of individual senators to pronounce a ruling as to what is and what is not. I think the main advantage of this bill is that it doesn't change much in current administrative legislation that is building for very good. There's been some very valid comments and reasons to look more closely at some of the principles of this bill, and I'm glad that the administrative and monitoring committee is going to do that and that the executive manager of the greater part, the dog. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson, former president of the Legal Society, have responded well to this request.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u49	A respectable president. I believe it is necessary to account for my vote on Article 1. This bill. This bill will be created after considering moving Fish Room from the capital area to Akureyri. That thought came into play in the first place, not for a further reason. I support this bill to increase the flexibility of the management department, but I expect that in the flexibility this may have taken in thought, reasoned decisions I don't think were there when this idea of the Fish Room developed. I support this, because the management board needs to be flexible, but it also needs to be based on thought - provoking and logical reasons. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u50	V.E.G. President. I strongly object to the fact that a minister can insist on establishing the institutions without being decided on the part of the Generals. But in view of the fact that the case is going to be considered, I will sit by this vote and declare that there are other things in this bill that I don't approve of. But this is the most serious point, and I'm very glad that they're looking at it, and I actually want to take this opportunity and thank you for an agreement to come back to the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u51	A respectable president. I'm not basically against the fact that the Agency's location should always be determined by the law, but with regard to the way it was treated in a Fish Room, and the steepness of that case, I can't support it. On the contrary, I vote against this in the hope that the occasion will allow a better setting to be applied to the site of the institutions to make more peace with both the personnel of the institutions and all others involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u52	A respectable president. I just want to bring it up and thank you. A committee for retrieving the change originally planned for the bill. The change that originally followed the bill was bad, not to solve the problem she was to solve. Change course. However, the committee does much better. I think that change is what happened. The board of directors and monitoring committees are presented to provide both the bill and the law itself for improvement. So I vote with the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u53	President. Our members of Parliament were brought to our attention what is now being changed right away when the matter was presented. I called attention to the people who were involved in making this change from the Ministry, and I am very pleased that the majority of the management and administration committees decided to listen to a proposal both from the IMMI Institute as well as from other members of Congress because it was obvious that the law's purpose would not be realized if this were not to be changed. At the same time, I would like to draw attention to how often one word can be so important. That is why it is so urgent that we carefully review the procedure at the Council and not allow matters to go through without a thorough discussion of that subject. The only reason we specifically noted this is because this is a matter that we have a special focus on. I suggest that we take more time to study a subject, but often it is, and especially during these days, when some 70 cases are to be handled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u54	Mr. President. Here is the value of an article in the law that there are co-ordination committees that work independently of the Ministry and follow the rules and take the initiative for all kinds of good things, intelligence, academic research, the failure to comply with indications, cooperation against corruption in the public sector, with local and abroad, all away, away, away. This is to be set up as some sort of escape, called on the minister of the Ministry. That's not good. This is totally against what is being done in the world. This is against what the World Council is doing in its code of ethics that all classes have agreed on on the Committee to Presidents, independent of a committee as high moral standards. This is not a good article, and the prime minister has the opportunity to install a administrative and surveillance committee and just say, "Hey. We need to take a closer look. And if he doesn't take the initiative, I suggest that the Commission and the Commission call for Prime Minister to come and take a look at this. That's not good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u55	A respectable president. I recommend to the members of the Committee on the Management Board advising proposal for a state-of-the-aggressary programme for 2016-52019. Under the committee's opinion, you'll write to me as well. Councilmen of Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, vice president of the Fundament Committee, Willum Thor Þór Þórsson, Benediktsson Benglatsson, Karl Garðarsson, and Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir. The financial and economic minister proposed this proposal to the budget board on April 28th. Is this the first time that any such proposal is made before the Council, with which it is being fulfilled in the 25th chapter. track No. 55/1991, of the General Assembly. Six. 25. The law states that a proposal should be made for the Council, no later than April 1 each year, for the main distribution of budgets for the next budget year, frame, as well as the report on changes in government revenue. The proposal should follow a budget for the next three years. The purpose of the Conventional Act is to reassign the budget to the year, allowing more time for the General Assembly for strategy and major contributions. By the time it comes to making contributions in the fall, these main points of the budget will already be discussed. The committee has also discussed a bill on official financial legislation, and it discusses financial and financial policies that are partly based on the same basis as the terms of Congress. Thus, this synoptic proposal is not only in harmony with the General Assembly Act but also in accordance with the bill for official financial legislation. A respectable president. This is the first time that this is done in this way because of a change in engagement law, and it is first referred to as a national financial program to appear before April 1. This is a sort of test driving to allow this system to work as it should, in order to obtain final confirmation of government financial law, which was taken out of the budget this morning, in opposition to the smaller part, despite much good, professional coverage. In effect, this is the first step in discussing financial matters at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. I must say that I am deeply concerned that the council is not equipped to deal with a new bill on public financial matters that will soon be legalized, at the latest, at the end of the fall council, because of the regulations of Congress that we have seen in the council hall of this spring council. I'm just not sure that the council is ready to take over. According to the bill on official financial matters, a national budget shall be set up before the council at the latest of April 1. Today is June 5, and if the official financial bill had become the law of last year, then the council would long have fallen on this issue. It is one thing to put a bill on a professional basis that everyone is in a physical sense agreeing that it will result in a failure of deliberate violations of the law. It would have been a danger here if last year this government bill had become legal. Sadly, the Council is not stronger than it can be, so there are no other laws and dates in the law because of the situation at the council. A financial committee has discussed this plan at three meetings and has arranged for a meeting of representatives of the Kingdom Review and Organization to discuss the plan. Its structure is in such a way that national and economic and tax measures adopted by the present government are clearly recognized. • reviewing the criteria and criteria for invasive development and identifying a wide range of uncertainty factors that can have a major impact on the plan. The terms and results of the programme and the remuneration plan are outlined from 2016 ◯2019. Finally, the government's financial contributions are intertwined by the financial community and the State. This, for example, is one of the points presented in a new bill on government finances, that it is being brought in by both a state and a community in one law code. Although this kind of proposal is now proposed for the first time, it is based largely on a project established by the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs for years. In this way, the previous legal bill of the past few years has dealt with economic prospects and the basis for a series of years. A respectable president. It has come to be critical that this is not an accurate document, but I remind you that this is now the first time, and that it is done by Congress law, so now everyone is walking in the right to a public financial law to take effect this year, preferably for the summer, and it will be in another and more detailed way in the next year at the highest level. Secretary of finance proposes a plagiarization proposal for a government budget. It will then be in accordance with the laws on public finances so that the national budget will explain what each area and each topic group will do for the next year. So it is not completely significant and it cannot be added to this Parliamentary arrangement until a new government law has been approved. This is what I wanted to say at the outset, a respectable president, for opposers of this government budget have been most concerned with this. It is recently suggested that there are clear targets in the main areas of the budget. The primary objective is to promote economic stability and continued recovery in the government. Already, a continuous debt collection of years after the collapse of the ever - increasing banking system has been stopped. The main objectives are: 1st The product of state funds. The levels of government funds progressively improve over the period and will become at least 1% of gross domestic product by 2018. 2. Money from state funds. There is no excess in growth of gross domestic product from 2015 up to 2019 C.E. 3. The tents of state funds. Expenditures increase more slowly than GDP and slightly slower than primary income and decrease by 1% of GDP from 2015 to 2019. 4. The debt of state funds. Bridge debt drops about 10% to a name value and reduces about 15% as a proportion of GDP from 2015 to the end of 2019. The plan shows that despite positive signs in all major sectors of the budget, there are important uncertainty factors. I'll ask senators to listen for what comes next. It is a major factor in the implementation of collective agreements and capital spending, with the exception of routine factors such as economic failure or a high demand in major business countries. In fact, delinquency may also have a positive effect on debt and interest costs, but it is not expected to be the basis for the State budget. Some people criticize this GDP program and feel that too much uncertainty in it, but I have described it as some sort of status point of government as they were when the plan was submitted. I was here to say that this document had first gone to the budget committee on April 28th. It's June 5th, today. If the council were functional, this government budget would be through the council and become a Senate resolution, but since I was going over the uncertainty issues that were not anticipated at the beginning of April, which turn to collective agreements and delinquency, it is only natural that these grounds are changing in these spoken words when the influence of collective agreements is not fully established, while public employees are having a strike and due to what was presented at government meetings this morning, amputinated. This is a living document in that when we're taking this council proposal for future events. I don't know how any of these two lawsuits are going except the government who's been introduced to the emissions programme. That is why I am glad that the beating is defensive because of the uncertainty that could not be anticipated when the highest point came along. Secretary of finance put it forward. As time continues, and it has become legally established that a financial program will always be submitted to April 1, each year, a pattern can be read as the years rise and where the signs of danger are. It is first in my opinion that, in my opinion, it will benefit largely from comparing between years and years with actual figures and actual expenses for each seminar and actual figures on income, etc. This program shows that the total interest rate paid by banks fell at the current price of 2015 is about 580 billion. It also states that it is urgent to sell financial assets in financial companies and other associates, as well as not reimburse a portion of a debt deposit. Rather, it is necessary to reimburse other financial loans with a more favorable option than is now being made. This must be done to strengthen the State Fund's place on the economy and on the other hand, in order to reduce the rate of growth, thus increasing space, including to build up and face the rising cost of aging and pension commitments, which may be one of the long - term threats of state funds, as are taking place in these days for emissions and agreements with the demands. The State budget estimates that the share of the state's budget of domestic product will go down. This is how it will be at the end of 2015 by 68% and decline below 50% by the end of 2019. The decrease is largely due to the growth of land production, but the debt worth less than 10% between 2015 and 2020. One of the reasons for the programme is that any irregular income that may fall during the period will be considered to be a reduction in debt, thereby reducing the interest costs of the state's budget. This is a very important and important point, the priority for government matters is to reduce foreign debt and thereby reduce the interest cost of a Kingdom fund in these spoken words of a building of more than one complete New Land Hospital a year. It is unacceptable, for the priority here is clear, that the emphasis is that all irregular income goes to subsidies on the State debt. It discusses the basis and prospects of the income programme and particularly the remuneration strategy. The income side is expected to continue a good economic growth over the next four years, allowing space to reduce the breakdown of the tax system while taxation decreases in household and employment. This was carried out by the Government's declaration in making contracts for a general labour market a few days ago. A further reduction in insurance costs is planned. Tollar will be revised. This is also being revised, since tolls have been reduced on all electronic devices, and it is also presented in the government declaration that customs will be dropped by clothing and shoes. There will continue to be plans for the reduction and change in income taxes and income taxation of individuals. At the remuneration side, expenses are divided by economic exchange, i.e. in income expenditures, capital expenditures, transactions and investments. The plan discusses very important conservatives, and I would have liked to see a higher percentage of them. Investments are also covered with investment levels and spending distances to new emphasis. According to this section, an estimated 1% annual maintenance goal is expected to be about 5.5 billion due to a reduction in cost interest. The aim is to maintain the same proportion of investments as in budget 2015, i.e. about 1.2% of the national production. This means space in the latter part of the period for new investment projects. This involves completing the construction of a new hospital and design of the treatment core of a new county hospital, whose building will remain open. The tents are not classified as individual ministry or lawsuits. That exchange will not appear until by means of a budget bill in the fall. Next year, it is planned that total income A-part State Fund will total a total of 682 billion dollars. and the cost of 671 billion. Thus, the total balance will be positive at 11 billion K, i.e. of about 0.5% of national product. A greater proportion of the budget committee feels strongly that the next year's management plan is going on and that the basis for a budget bill of 2016 is based on the national financial programme. The greater part suggests that from now on, there will be a step further exchange of expenses, not just for economic exchanges, but for each Ministry and Their Case Groups. Then the plan will be taken from five to four. These changes are in line with Article 5. A bill to legalize public financial matters that deals with financial programmes. In view of the greater part of the legal committee, this article includes the box for financing between the next year and the next year. A respectable president. Finally, I'm going to say that in this government budget, not only is the government's goal to run a government fund without a leak but it is to yield the rest. There has been a reversal of government affairs since this government began so great a reversal that foreign nations look to us because we stopped the State debt collection and have made a profit of government funds. How positive this is for the situation of the nation in the international financial world! We also expect the coming days to come to a very positive report on the release of a demon that was introduced at a meeting of the government this morning. I've already referred to that meeting. It is a bright, respectable president, but we must be very firm and thrift in the business of government. In my opinion, the government's spending on certain aspects of the situation is too much that in some respects has kept the current government in doing even better in its priorities that focus on the health, education, and transportation system, the basic resources that we have put in place. A greater proportion of the budget suggests that this proposal will be passed on as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u56	Mr. President. As it is, we'll bet we're going to discuss this government budget well. I suppose that's what. The chairman of the budget is coming up for more talks, but first, I'd like to ask why. A senator on the plan she proposes to be accepted as unchanged. Hv. A senator mentioned the agreements, and we know how they have worked for a part of the employee. At present, there is a pitade at BHM, but in the budget of the budget it calculates a rate of 2% above inflation for state workers per year throughout the programme. It is likely to be higher percentages if dead bodies act if we take into account the collective agreements that have been made. However, only 1% increase in social security benefits is expected. It seems to me, Mr. President, that there is a recommendation for the Generals to agree to violate the law or to go against the 69th par. the law on social security, that they are being torn apart with those who have to rely on reforms and others in the community, and that they're increasing inequities. I'm asking why. A member of Parliament whether it is possible that this is a mistake, as the proposal of a government budget is directly assumed to be a violation of the law because according to the 69th grade. will make decisions based on pay development, although they will never increase less than the price of the dierent price.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u57	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. So to be said at the outset, the matter is, in my opinion, kind of at a time, because it is now being done in the plot to end the budget. It's June 5th already, and we're shutting this thing down right now. This is a first-authorized tool for the government budget, for after a few weeks, another Tuesday in September, it will be submitted here as Council Report No. 1 Prepared budget for 2016 I regret that the situation at the council has been this way at this spring council, as it has shown to the people of the country, and all these urgent matters have been in the background. Regarding what the senator considered older citizens, he referred to an article relating to social security, it is right to improve according to law and to link the index of consumer prices. I'd like to review with the senator that this was the last year of a budget plan for this team. This became a big debate because when the index of consumer prices was calculated, there was an overexplanment of a plan. Then it was moved back. First, these groups felt entitled to a certain amount, and a percentage of them appeared on the bill. I just think there's a cautionary point here, not a mistake. Plans are planned, and we know that many times and seasons are difficult to predict, as I did in my prehistoric address, both on income supplies and on expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u58	Mr. President. Could be the whisk. A senator, the chairman of a financial committee, did not notice that a 2% increase in pay is expected over the index for public staff but only 1% for those who have to rely on compensation? In the council arrangement, for good. A senator proposes that they remain unconvinced, is simply assumed to be disintegrating with those who rely on compensation and others. It's going against the 69th floor. Act on social security. That's the way it is, Mr. President. However, it is also assumed in the synonym's text that if the pay of your employee is increased by more than 2% above that of inflation, it will need to be settled. I want to ask you why. A senator: Where does she feel the removal should be performed in order to obtain a collective contract with BHM?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u59	A respectable president. It's all done with open eyes. It's just that old age and disability are being dealt with in the law and decided how they are raised by the people. It is not being proposed to change the social security law, so the senator knows, so the senator realizes that it is not possible to take it through this financial program. [[Up front.]] Since we're talking about drawing something apart from groups of people, contracts were made in a general labour market. V.E.G. Department of Social Affairs has discussed this matter as a matter of opinion in the Ministry. paritaprevir It's just a simple matter with Oddný Harðardóttir. Since the second part of the question was about cutting, it is best not to cover thoroughly where I would like to see the cut down. I'm a spokesman for government cuts, but it will not be at the health and education systems or transport costs as the last government went on to destroy the health system, a respectable president, during the last term. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u60	You're gonna cut interest?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u61	A respectable president. It's interesting when you cross the committee's opinion of the greater part that it's really like a small extract from the Senate arrangement. There's no criticism, and I'm wondering, because the Council has a surveillance role, whether or not the greater part should just take anything from the executive agency as some kind of heavenly delivery. I am amazed that there is no more criticism and no more criticism in this synonym. On page 18. 22 reports on interest costs, interest payments, and shows that the GDP in Iceland is greater than any EU Member State, including Greece, so that we are offered a greater benefit than any country we compare with, which must be a major concern. I wanted to know what I thought. A senator does. I think it's because we have a currency that people don't trust, so we're stuck with a worse growth rate. If it is so important to reduce debt, why not try to do something about the nation's currency? On page 18. 28: No. Two, says the plan contains 4 billion bucks. The budget that is expected to be set up at the later level of the budget for individual cases in accordance with the government's policy. This is probably not the reserve of the so - called reserve, which is about 5 billion. There's four billion that go into some deposit bed. Is it good that there's 4 billion in a pot? And who will attend this 4 billion? Aren't they going to get a lot of pressure, as we've discussed? Is this an example of discipline?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u62	A respectable president. I appreciate this inquiry. Because the senator began talking about currency matters, it would be good to get it clear once and for all, what the future and the United States want in currency. It is quite known that the European Union cannot be recorded here unless Iceland is a member of the European Union. What remains? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, How amazing it is to be constantly participating in the discussion of the loss of a dollar! It only works really well when the government's all right. When inflation is at the prices of the Federal Bank, where there is no significant unemployment, everyone practically positive, it is the most valuable tool for Iceland's economy. Regarding the interest expenses the senator asked about them, I reviewed in my speech that it was an unacceptable position where the government funds pay a lot of interest each year, over 80 billion in foreign currency borrowed. Therefore, I rejoice greatly if what was stated in the media at lunchtime is taking place in terms of the disposal of currency burglars and these agreements with the demands of the state, that the debt of the state can go down by hundreds of billions. Then I'll ask senators to wait until there's more news of that action until here are any sworn statements, because there's our opportunity for Icelanders and the highest. In this regard, the prime minister has constantly spoken, even though he may be pressured to downplay his views. This certainly is becoming evident right now. The second question I have to answer in my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u63	A respectable president. Yeah, I'd like to get an answer to the second question, and I'd like to ask another one too. On page 18. Thirty - five refer to the budget of the government on tax declines, the cost of 2 billion next year, and the cost of a further 6 billion dollars. in 2019 C.E. Then, not many weeks after this has been submitted, the government will have measures to cover the labour contracts of a general labour market, and then it says: Thus, the overall reduction in income tax consumption will increase to up to $16 billion during the term period. Here comes a policy, a plan, a plan that lives for a few weeks, and then the government has a new plan. It is no longer 6 billion, we are talking about 16 billion. If we can't think for more than six months or one year ahead, we can totally forget these public finances because they are based on long - term thinking and policy. It's the foundation in them. Is it acceptable that the government doesn't know when it wins this program what it's going to make a lot of money on a tax cut? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u64	A respectable president. I'm beginning to think that at least I can. A senator sat here in the councilroom if she did not listen to my debate, as I overstepped exactly what the senator asked me to do. First of all, about the ransom tape spoken of last year's answer, it's so I hope that the senator's position in the community is identified. Almost all strike - down individuals in this country have just arrived from a strike, a strike, or a strike. To meet the demands being carried out, I just hope that the senator will understand that. I also reviewed the government's corruption in terms of collective agreements achieved in the general labour market and crossed the fact that this document was written in March and submitted in early April. I reviewed that it is June 5th, and I reviewed why this has not become a conquistador. [[Up front.]] It's not clear. It's a conquistador proposal, it's a projection. That's what it says, and I went over it in my discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u65	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech and would like to share some of my thoughts with him on the bill. True, this is a plan, but one of the things we've talked about in a budget is how we plan well and keep it to the full. This may be expected to change, but it may be rather largely due to government decisions, not necessarily because of the uncertainty of a labour agreement or something like that. But that's not what I was going to ask. I wanted to ask the senator of last year's answer to my questions about what she says and is expressed in the opinion of the greater part, i.e. that there is one reason for the plan is that any irregular income that may fall during the period will be set aside to reduce debt and interest costs. She said that it was what had to be put on the most emphasis, and I can totally agree with it. However, it is stated in the plan that funding will be adopted in the B Department of Pension to 5 billion each year starting in 2017. I'd like to get a clear answer from what happened. A senator's opinion is that we need to take a loan in order to be able to pay about 5 billion each year starting in 2017 at the same time, saying that we should pay almost all that is left to reduce debt. The question is, count it. A senator that will be used to pay off a five billion pension fund, as indicated here, or that we need to borrow?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u66	A respectable president. Thank you for your objective inquiry. This is how it appears in the news - and not lying - that a potential stable tax was introduced to the government this morning returns $5 billion. These contracts mean that there will be a completely altered situation here, both for foreign debt and for the interest expenses I covered earlier. Looking back on this amount, if it's the way it shows up in the news - I haven't found it and I haven't seen the primes that are available - we're even talking about how the state funds can drop by 30 to 45 billion a year. A respectable president. There are a number of ways to do things in the worldwide growth rate of about 30◯45 billion each year. There's room to cover the council arrangement, i.e. I'm about to start paying off the debt of public employees. There is room for some money to come to meet the elderly and the desperate. There is room for even more funding to the Hospital and Health Organization, for medical costs. A respectable president. We're looking for a changed situation. It tells itself that when the state's fund gets between 35 and 45 billion extra per year, which previously paid interest, it changes the position, apart from the fact that all economists are positive, economic growth is on the rise, here is a little unemployment, we are producing more in our manufacturing system - the future is therefore very bright.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u67	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I now ask her to speak gently about the execution of the plague and what comes out of it, it's not in her hand. I think that's one of the things we need to remember that it's not expected that what's coming there is intended to run a government fund. These temporary taxes that we have, which make up certain incomes, are not eternal, many of whom have been laid. In this regard, I'd also like to ask--because the senator only came in on it and we worry about it too--about the S-labelled drugs. Small charge is expected in it and I ask if they think the S-labelled medicinal product will last. S-labelled medicinal products have, as we know, increased much more than we may have planned. [[The president calls.]] Clearly, there is a great need to take new drugs. We've heard of that lately. So I'm gonna ask the senator if she thinks it's true what we're talking about here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u68	A respectable president. I wasn't talking about what would come out of these contracts with the demanding workers going into the pursuit of state funds. I was telling you what would be possible when negotiations are reached and the interest rate of the state's budget is down by 3,35,445 billion a year, depending on what comes out of these contracts. I'd like to ask senators to talk positive about this. V.E.G. The prime minister has told many talks that unless it benefits land and nation, negotiations with demands will not be made. Homes and businesses will not be sacrificed in these contracts, as was the last government, when banks were delivered without legal warrants overnight to demands. This government is going to solve now and intend to maximise the success to save what will be saved; I'm talking about it when it happens. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon, a minister of finance, delivered in the shelter of an Icelandic home and a company to the faceless demands of the old banks. It's not a good example. I think senators should calm down now only in this matter. I answer the question about the S-labelled medication in a way that I'm afraid this plan will not work. The 2015 schedule doesn't work, so I'm afraid a 2016 strategy will not work either. But it's got it, like other things, it's a plan. [[The president calls.]] I think it's obvious that there's only need to be improvement, but it's important that we, too, take it from some other unnecessary government funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u69	Mr. President. I recommend the Commission's proposal for a resolution on the terms of the budget budget for 2016-2019 of a smaller section of the legal committee. Six. 25. Legalized by the General Assembly, No. 55/1191 says, by permission of the president: The minister who handles the government's budget shall submit to the General Assembly, no later than April 1, every year, a proposal for the resolution of the main distribution of budgets for the next budget year (correspond), as well as a report on changes in the state's revenues. The proposal should follow a budget for the next three years. The proposal should be referred to the budget after the previous discussion. The minority rejoices that for the first time there is a national financial programme, but it points out that the strategy under the name is rather preliminative. It cannot be considered that a discussion of policy-making in the state or the framework of the environment could begin on the basis of this synonym. There is no frame over the budget of the state's budget. The hagreen system of the budget does not allow room for the discussion necessary for the synopsis of this arrangement. Similarly, the value of this policy is not sufficiently in the light of ambitious objectives presented in the bill on public financial matters now available for the council. The proposal seems rather early to date the budget of policy and outlook than the expected product. This article will further explain the position of the lesser part on the proposal. In the above 25th grade. The Treaty of the General Assembly is expected to include the main exchanges of next year's budget under strict budget. The minority expected the proposal to be divided into an spending frame that showed the government's focus on budgets. Then the minority also assumed that the government policy would be published with appropriate convergence, with the aim of moving the funding process back to the year and providing greater access to policies and main lines of state funds in the spring. They suggest that the financial agenda presented here does not provide them with opportunities for a discussion about the money markets they were seeking. A clear climate policy is not being established according to the programme. It is not possible to discuss the national budget based on the professional grounds made by the Council of Congress since June 11, 2011. However, the proposal has been postponed until now, so the smaller portion believes that sufficient time has been taken for the highest level. A government to win this case better. The proposed strategy depends on the annual budget of policy and outlook for the state to the next year. In my opinion, a clear government policy for the General Assembly is not being submitted so that a discussion of its goals can be carried out on the field of the budget before a financial bill is completed. Since the budget is not available and the budgets of the case are not set; neither has it been possible to bring the budget talk to the level expected by Congress laws. Mr. President. The Senate arrangement shows the contribution of the State Fund from 2005 to the rate of the 2016/2219. It shows that the result of the year 20053/4/2008 was positive for up to 8% of VLP between years, but it goes down to negative economic collapses or to about -7% of VLPs. In 2013, the contribution bath from year to year is very good, and as a result, the debt collection of the state funds is halted. The increase rate is small from 2013 to 2016, but the plan allows for a slow growth rate each year from year to year. It is not expected to be the same as VLF, which was in the years prior to collapse, but it will become 2% of VLPs between 2018 and 2018. This shows that during the last term, the recovery rate is much slower than in the years following collapse. It must be remembered that the rate of the state's budget of 2016-52019 is determined that decommission has no effect on the status of the crown and is not expected to be affected by its potential effects on debt status or capital funds. Remuneration agreements are not expected to affect prices and interest levels or to require further financial expenditure. Possible weaknesses can also be identified as changes in the growth, management, and competitiveness of the workplace. Not much should be done to restore the state's status to negative status and to restore debt. The minority points out that if hunting costs had not been reduced in the summer of 2013, a wealth tax would not have been removed, and if energy tax from the industry had not been lifted, the product of government funds would have been far better than that. At that time, the administrative body has set up a total of 100 billion dollars. in unremarkable subsidies of mortgages. The smaller section feels alone that instead of falling away from various income routes, the income side should be strengthened to allow room for investments and subsidies to become real. The minority agrees that great financial interests are linked to maintaining and strengthening trust in the GDP and that trust and confidence in the management of government funds are of great importance to the State's financing costs, but it has a major impact on the growth of rural society and professional life. It is not clear according to the plan whether the goal is to pay down the pension debt by the management process or whether these subsidies should be financed by borrowing. The minority points out that, still, the pension commitments are largely unfashionable. Mr. President. Without commitment, the State's debt is now 1,450 billion dollars. and the annual interest costs are estimated at 82 billion dollars. It is very important to pay off both the debt of the State to cover the interest costs but also to strengthen the nation's independence. People who live in such debt are not subject to extremes and are in danger of being dependent on others financially. So the lesser part agrees that the greatest project in the government of the budget is to unwind the huge debt that the State has taken after the collapse of the bank. The plan expects substantial declines in terms of VLF and 68% of VLPs to approximately 50% by the end of 2019. This decrease occurs mainly as a result of growth in VLP, but to a nominal decrease of less than 10%. A reduction in the value of names will be financed by less currency reserves and through sale of holdings in financial companies and other partners ◯. It is not known which companies are expected to sell if items cannot be sold in financial companies. There, the largest part of the State would have been about 30% in the Bank of Lands. which has been discussed with the sale and the highest. Financial and economic secretary has provided a legislation on the setting of the sale that awaits the release of the Commission and the Senate. However, the Agency's headquarters has concluded on other ideas about the possession and management plans of the Lands Bank, and it is likely that no more than that within the board of directors is involved in selling the stock at the Bank of America. The minority severely criticizes that such a major part of the projection of subsidies is as weak as it really is. It is not convincing to specify payment as one of the most important projects in the management of financial matters, but it does not point to convincing means of subsiding the prices of the debt. Over the past few years, tourism has grown from 7% to 20% between years since 2011, and the growth of this article is still expected. In 2014, about one million tourists attended Iceland, and plans assume that they can be one and a half million each year. Travel services earn most of all the incomes of the country's industry and have been doing so since 2013. The growth of this article has caused many new jobs, and the unemployment of high school students and industrial workers has greatly diminished because of them. Tourism is a major priority in the economy, and the question is, Is it any longer applicable to the appeals of this article beyond other employment sectors, such as the appeals of the merit tax system? Iceland's production is too small compared to neighboring countries, and that's a big concern. It is not enough to point out that the problem exists, as the plan will do. There are no programs on how to increase production, and this is critical. The sector that has grown in the most recent years is tourism, as previously said, which is too low in production and thus has new jobs that have not been able to cope with the lack of production in the economy. Then there is a special concern about the high proportion of unemployed students. Now it's time for college to be 23% of the jobseekers. The responsible authorities address the problem, but this is not done or shown in any way in a budget for the next year. Mr. President. The State budget aims for a 2%-year increase in government workers, i.e. that there will be no more than 2% annual average gain over inflation. Thus, if collective agreements give further increases, the terms stated in the budget of the budget will include a further increase: an appropriate tool for reducing pay costs such as contracting to staff or working levels, etc., this would mean human speaking that if the collective agreements give more than 2% of the money money, they will be cut off in the State's service. There, the health and education system is affected and the smaller part is warned of further cutting down on this important support of the welfare system. The plan allows improvement in social security to increase by 1% over inflation in 2016-2019. According to the 69th grade. Law on Social Security, No. 100/2007, shall improve your social security, as well as payment according to the 63rd st. and the amount of money according to the 22nd paragraph. Their laws, they change every year according to budget. Their decision should take into account pay development, although it will never increase less than the price of the consumer price. The fiscal plan allows a 2% increase in money gain from government employees and, in terms of my share, the same should apply to the improvements in social security. According to the financial programme, the two lower tax steps should be reduced to one step by simplifying the income tax system. It is claimed that this action will improve the efficiency of the system and the added resources of people. These changes are not explained further, such as when and how they will affect individual income groups. The smaller part criticizes that governments are disappearing from a step - apart income tax system. It is also criticized that in government policy schemes, these plans are as vague as they can be. Clearly, after a difficult year after the collapse, there is a great need for investment. Available needs include the building of health care, nursing homes, transportation, and the introduction of tourism. The State budget shows the total cost of investment in the estimated 30.2 billion dollars. 2017, 30.7 billion bucks. 2018 and 32.3 billion k. 2019. This is about 1.2% of GDP, and it is clear that investments will not hold back. It is important to maintain public investment, including rural society, that it is not enough to renew and maintain the land red in the form of wood and other valuables. It goes on and it dries, which means possible deterioration to the future and less space will be involved in increasing real estate and improving quality of life. According to the Parliamentary arrangement, there seems to be no plan on how investments should be conducted. The proposal suggests that this means replacing new unscrupulous tasks with those who will be completed during the period. It also highlights the fact that the government's policy is being dealt with, which involves new and uncontaminated tasks, which no one knows who they are. So the policy is not in itself. The State budget shows that, and now I quote the text, in this investment criteria, it is assumed that the plan will complete the building of the sick hotel and complete the complete design of the LSH treatment core, which includes 860 million. K. increase of donations in 2016 and 5.1 billion dollars. expenses during the period The financial and economic secretary has said that preparation has not been necessary to set up a provision for the construction of the land hospital and that overindulging government investments can disrupt the long-term programme set up and may require a cut-off to allow room for such investment. In view of the government budget, the less part feels that land hospital problems will be brought into the future, and the need for new hospitals is still unsolved and the future cost will be even greater. By reading the GDP program at this point, the conclusion that it is not possible to start a new hospital until the first year 2020. The proposal suggests that demographic and built - in growth are based on 3% of GDP and S-labelled medicinal products and 2% in pensional commitments. In view of the lower part, this conclusion is different than that it is not available to take new S-labelled medicinal products during the time period of the schedule where the costs of their uptake have generally been estimated to be much greater than shown. Already this has been delayed longer than reasonably necessary to provide patients with access to these products, and medical services in this country will suffer for lack of the best products, and health - care status will be worse than for the nations with whom we live in Iceland would like to compare us to. It appears then that the estimated growth of Penitentiary bonds will be due about 2% a year; the government will not be able to keep agreements within the limits expected by the national financial programme. Clearly, this may be a substantial amount of money. The proposal puts up a total tax sheet, including irregular joints, but it does not include personal business in the opinion of the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs, where they can fluctuate considerably between the years and therefore stand outside the framework. On page 18. Thirty - nine of these are discussed in the Kingdom Ministry program, on the pages of this magazine. 40 have grown to ten, and it appears to be inconsistencies in rural funds and employment insurance. According to my share, these groups fall under government management and are too much of a matter of launching an unrecognizable concept. In view of the memory of the part, a closer consideration of the definition of irregular joints is required, as it is assumed that during 2016 they will be less than 24% of the total estimated amount per year. In view of its memory, the financial programme weakens that about one quarter of the budget is paying off as an irregular unit in which the government's policy centre is that the budget of the state without irregular teams is reduced by 1% as a share of VLP. Therefore, irregular teams could easily influence these plans, and it is important that the government does not minimize the importance of managing these spendings as much as possible and with careful plans for their scope. Mr. President. V.E.G. The Minister of Social Affairs is to submit legal advice on housing matters that do not seem to be confined within the government's financial policy. The development of a proposal for the interpretation of a national budget should include a policy-making agreement at the highest level. Governments to follow the government. That's why this is not a greeting. Let's see some bills at the highest. The social and housing minister agreed that there will likely be no room for any other urgent policy of the government. The budget is meaningless if the government is unable to bring together its main policies and define its scope of the strategy. In view of my share, the highest budget cannot be discussed. Government and key policy based on this council resolution. Under this opinion, the writer of the article "What Is Here? " Senators Brynhildur Pétursdóttir and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir. A respectable president. This budget is, as I said before, and presented in the Committee of my stocks, more like a plan of policy that follows a budget bill and leads to disappointment. It's hard to talk about it as some real plan, and it's clear, Mr. President, that it's out of order already, two months after it's submitted to Congress. Both are agreements that are certainly picked up as uncertainty in the program, but that is also the main policy of the government, which is the simple tax system. The State budget allows for a simple tax system to start with 2 billion, but when it is fully accomplished, 6 billion are expected. However, changes are made that cost about 10 billion. Still, the chairman of the budget board is laying it down, huh? paritaprevir In his speech here, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, in spite of the fact that both income and fees are now clear to the point of failure. On page 18. 18 is a picture showing the survival of the State Fund. There, Mr President, it is well established by the success of the last terms, the success of the Union government, and the left greens by their actions and, of course, by the people of the country. In opposition to today's government groups, the government saved a government fund from falling and also ended up in debt. This shows the picture very well on page 18. 18 and shows that the right government, now serving for two years, took on a very good farm. I would have wanted, Mr. President, to have been a government that would have built a more just society in the progress achieved. But it isn't. The success of the Union government and the left green uses the right government to protect the interests of the richest in society and best of all, and that's a big disappointment. Mr. President. I'm going to make this work for a while, but I'm assuming that I'll be back in a talk later in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u70	As noted in my committee's list of items, this was shown in the introduction of the chairman of a smaller section of the budget committee, why. Harðardóttir With the birth of a government fund during this four - year period, this program is unsatisfactory or gloomy. There's a small table for a bar. Nevertheless, reports are now being received that the government has approved a donation into a collective agreement that is likely to prescribe more than 20 billion income losses and expenditures combined by government funds; if income income tax goes down to 16 billion, at least 93/411; and several billion expenses are due to housing and agriculture. That's why I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament: What presentation did a financial committee get on those promises by the government? Second: Is there a budget or a financial committee available on this adjusted basis? Third, the question may be asked: Out of question, was it not discussed on a financial committee, waiting until at least some casual assessment had been conducted on these new grounds? Of course, it is simple to calculate the plan about one 20 billion because of lost income and increased expenses, but it is of course not as simple as it is then, in the middle of the years, but, of course, an increase in government income to some extent due to the increase in pay and the possibility of increased filamentation, but also may result from withdrawal from growth. Most analysts agree that the Council will increase growth, probably by at least 50 points right now on June 10, and there is likely to be more to be expected in August. [[The president calls.]] It's a big variation that I ask: How did a financial committee deal with this? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u71	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator's questions. Unfortunately, I have to inform them here that a budget board has not covered these criteria and has received no other estimate of them than what is given in the media. We haven't been through this in any way. We know that some of the increase in pay means income, but changes in income taxes reduce the income. We don't really know what this is all about, we don't know what the final outcome is, i.e. The increase in income is higher than the pay tax, then it decreases because the tax system has been changed. We don't know what the final outcome is and we haven't had this analysis yet. We do know, however, that this taxation falls with a certain group of income. If you look at the whole group, there are those in the middle of the group who have about 350 of you. A.K., to get an equal share of about 2,200 bucks. and then it goes up with the scale. Those with 700 points. K. the price of 12 of you. A. K., then the benefits fall, but this shows that those below 350 of you. K. few less, including large groups, older citizens, and those who have to rely on compensation, such as disability. That's a worry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u72	Mr. President. That's pretty serious information, isn't it? A senator thus suggests that although this is possible by a few days or a week, or what it is now, the hearing is completed by a financial committee without having any introduction to these plans or some preliminary assessment of how this changes the basis. This is now being negotiated in the labour market for some of the three-year period which is 3/4 of the time, or that way, this national budget. So in the years that followed, it must be left to look at evolution as if it were to become, to some extent, a set of criteria for the development of the remuneration. Also, a clear answer must be received from governments on how the sum of funds will be made. V.E.G. Clearly, a secretary of finance has to try to protect himself from taking into account the development of pay, but only the cost of development, as predicted - most expect to be of some increased inflation, and it can also be taken into account. There is a lot of concern and so serious that the end of the plan on this busy schedule and with virtually no improvement over a four - year period, for example, in the equation. If we take the tablet on page 20. 19 of the programme will be set up to produce no initial improvement in 2016; it will improve by 1% in 2017 and 0.7% in 2018. Then an improvement of 0.1% 2019 is demonstrated. This is, in effect, net cancer of 0.4% of gross domestic product. Of course, it's very small. The secretary of finance has acknowledged himself. If this is going to get worse, although the whole plan is down and down in this change right now, the worse side is down. [[The president calls.]] That can't be acceptable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u73	Mr. President. This is absolutely a tip, and I'm wondering how to vote for this program. First, it is inaccurate, and second, it is already clearly out of shape. What's the problem? Senators are going to vote if they're going to do it for a while. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir set up here earlier today, i.e. that this council proposal would remain unconvinced? It's clear that there's a small table for berries, like a sledgehammer. A senator pointed out, and the rest is expected. Of course, we are entitled to get an explanation of how this is to go down. It is also interesting to expect to break the 69th floor. Act on social security. I wonder, anyway. Councilmen, if they choose to vote with this decree, realize that at the same time they are saying, "Yes, we're going against page 69." Act on social security. I'm not sure people have figured that out. It must be natural for you to know that as long as this synonym is being discussed, there will be the highest possibility. Financial and economic ministers, either at a meeting of the Committee or here on a talk chair, review the changes that are already seen on the budget that have only been alive for over two months.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u74	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. In case of a moment. A senator is interested in improving the state's position further, and he goes forward more quickly to a decrease in debt and achieves more management in the state, so I rejoice. I'm happy if the Conspiracy has arrived at that place, that would be very nice, I'm not gonna talk about it if there were any more parties in the government stand. I cut it at the end of the day. A senator, as many members of the government stand insist, said that this government is primarily helping those who are rich. I want to ask you why. A senator of what she means. Hv. A senator knows exactly what has happened to the law since the start of the present government. Most of the emphasis has been placed on improving donations to health care. For example, there has been an increase in contributions to both the Hospital and the Hospital in Akureyri, about 20%. If we only take the Land Hospital, the contributions, if we had according to the standard consumer products, would be 5.6 billion less. If we had bound ourselves with the pay card, the contributions to the Hospital would be 3 billion lower. Hv. A senator knows. Hv. A senator knows that we have been working on priorities by taking money elsewhere for health purposes and was also the first work of this government coming, during its first summer council, 8,000 million to raise contributions to pension insurance. I think it's a misunderstanding that America's patients are mostly high-payers. On the contrary, I believe that diseases affect every group of society as well as income groups.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u75	Mr. President. I think it's important that we find out where to cut under BHM's collective agreements, as outlined in the Reich Safety Programme. I'm sure a senator will support you. I'm criticizing, however, that there is no sign of how to cut and where to cut. Of course, we know that most of the state's expenditures go into health and welfare, growing income, and education. I fear that the welfare of society should be weakened, and it is simply said, when it comes to the terms of the government budget, that it should be cut off if government workers gain more than 2% increase in money each year through the time of prophecy. Hv. A senator howls at the height of his complaint. A government is called a government of rich people, but for good reason. This is because of the expenses paid by that group of society in common funds, discounts have been paid. It's a discount of hunting costs, the fiscal tax is reduced, the energy tax has been reduced. The changes in cost taxes and remuneration are most useful to those who have the most money between their hands. The same is true of subsidies. Clearly, then, money was not taken from the rich people to improve the health system; they were taken somewhere else. I don't think this is a good way. I'd rather have kept this money inside to improve health, education, and community infrastructure. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u76	A respectable president. Hv. A senator never mentioned, and no dog. The head of the management body, the increase in both the proportion and the financial contribution to health and insurance services has been made. On the contrary, another claim is made. The premise is that this government has set the standards for health care and insurance. Regarding the fact that money is being brought to those who are wealthy and are being referred to the tax - should we go over it a little? The expenditures, expenditures were transferred from small and medium-sized to larger productions. The wealth tax, it was temporary. Hv. A senator himself said that he would not be replaced. That's probably one reason why he stood up for the Supreme Court case that he was temporary, since such property taxes are not available. It was a temporary tax, which the last government made, we didn't change, he just slipped out. Hv. A senator himself said in public that he would not be replaced. The income tax was also temporary and was thus introduced by the last government. With respect to the extra tax, it is most misleading to say that in terms of the crowns, it is better for those who have more. Everyone knows that, and it was all over, that the nature of the case, according to the way it works, is especially useful for those who have less income. It's a twist, a respectable president. Paybacks are in debt. Who will now get the most out of getting the subsidies that were the same number of crowns, a respected president, in view of the premise when the correction was due? Of course, it is those who have less income and average income. For those who are rich, this was of little consequence. This was of far greater importance to those who earn less than their average income. I got it. I got it. A senator to declare where the priorities have been set, just telling the truth and correctly when it comes to health and insurance issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u77	Mr. President. Clearly, this has been prerequisite for those who have more between their hands. You're right. It's less important for the richest 30% to get 4 million. K. in the hands, each home for itself, yet the fact is that 64% of the house - to - house debt is in the 30% of the richest group. According to that percentage bill, 51 billion of 80 billion would be going to these people. Like what? A senator himself said; they were less likely to do so than those who have less in their hands and receive less. Both the electricity tax and the wealth tax were temporary, but they were extended during the last terms. The situation was assessed in the community, whether it was necessary to extend it or not. They were both extended once. I've said that I wanted to change the money tax, that's property tax, and you'd rather take money from property to government funds than direct property taxes. But I would never have said: Okay, let's lower the wealth tax, but cut the cost of long - term noncorruption on the way and make the ridiculous changes done by the last budget, both the number of schools and all that was done to cut down and squeeze people. Although the government has raised the budget for health care, it's just absolutely necessary, and it needs to be done better. Donations of cash had to be made because of the numbers of older ones. Of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u78	A respectable president. We're here discussing a plagion proposal for a budget plan for the 2016-52019 period, some of which have become out - of - date. This certainly is a plan, but as noted earlier in the discussion, this synoptic arrangement was referred to as foretold. This is a plan for the next four years, which is certainly based on predictions. I think it's very important that we don't view this as something that needs to be done because it's decided by Congress, but we're good at what we're doing, and we're trying to use it as some kind of tool when we're dealing with the government. I must declare disillusionment with the opinion of the greater part, which is just a short excerpt from this synonym and unafraid. I think it's very important for the Council to monitor the executive role of the executives and then you don't have to look to see if you're in smaller parts or more. It is also disappointing that in itself there are no frames, this is, as we have seen, just as the little product that brings the budget into the fall, predictions, and phrases, no attempt to divide it into lawsuits, health issues, education issues, and so forth. So there's something else here that I'm critical of. I'm gonna start with a little discussion about debts. It is known that the State owes quite a lot, and interest rates and interest payments are burdensome. They study in one year like one new land hospital to put things in perspective, and in fact, they are not expected to lose their credit but will simply decrease as a proportion of GDP because GDP increases each year. Thus, the pay on debt is not exactly expected, and what is very interesting in this report is that the public's interest costs are very high, which means that the interest rates offered to us are worse than in any other country we compare ourselves with, including Greece. This is of concern, especially when we look at the possibility that growth rates are more likely than worse, i.e. increase in growth in neighboring countries In view of this, it is extremely important to pay off the State's debt to reduce the cost of interest and to have done so more effectively with the 803/4,100 billion in debt. I felt that there was a lot of delinquency for them, and we still don't know exactly how it worked out, who got the most out of that operation and who remembered, we still wait for answers to it. On page 18. 17 The result is the increase of the Kingdom Fund, and it is assumed that, as the above says, the result of the Kingdom Fund will be left over at least 10 billion dollars. In the first year, in 2016, the remainder grows from year to year, reaching nearly 40 billion dollars. in 2019 C.E. Now you must wonder if this is not already a problem, considering that the government has developed plans to reduce income taxes and become out of 16 billion in the season because of it, but not 6 billion as expected in this program; just here we are talking about 10 billion that could not be remembered for this procedure when the plan is being implemented at the beginning of the year. Interestingly, it is also said to go from three income tax steps to two. In itself, it is not explained further in this program, but it says that this action will cost 2 billion next year and will gradually up to 6 billion by 2019, now being 16 billion in the season of election. However, the proposals of the government, which can be found on the website of the Council or the Ministry of Presidency, are well described. I don't know that that information was in the way. They may have been discussed in some way. The Economic and Business Committee, but at least for the first time, I'm seeing a detailed review of how these income tax changes will become. I would have thought it normal to have this record if you thought it's important and have some weight. But this is evidently more done to appease a body of Congress because this is how it should be presented in the Senate. That's the only way I can look at it. It is also of concern that the measures the government is now taking were the government's contribution into agreements, but it seems that there is no effect on the conversations of the BHM and the Fégla nurses. This is the general market package, so can you expect another package to try to get at the bottom of your long-term, long-term, tough talk to try to solve that knot? Then you ask: Is it not better for the government to have a good policy, to build a good foundation, but not always to respond to an extraordinary debate? I realize it's hard now, but that's not the way it is. Then we will never be able to win any plans or think for more than one year in the future. It might have been better, then, if these plans had been introduced with the budget bill last time, if that had resulted in calming the workforce. I'd like to talk about pension debts, too. This article discusses the 5 billion each year starting 2017 into the B League of LS, and that's a very positive thing. It's necessary to do so, as well as the A Company, and especially the B department. But what I don't understand here is whether to take this rest, whether it will be left over every year that can be used to pay these subsidies, as it is called, or whether they will be borrowed from this. I don't think that's clear on the bill. Actually, I asked the highest. The secretary of finance when he first spoke the case, and I didn't understand the answer. I think it's very important that this is examined because if you take a loan, it's important that they be good, if they're to be paid. It also speaks of maintenance of the charge gate, and I agree that there is always a need to be conservative. In general, it says that 1% of the total physical growth in most business categories is expected. This is about the S-labelled medicinal products and I have to agree with the concerns that have been observed in previous talks. If this plan is to be followed, we are in fact not taking new S-labelled medicinal products. It is in our discussion today that people may not receive the necessary medication because they are invited, a certain number may receive a certain medication. If it's not a violation of an equation, I don't know what. This is unrealistic, and in fact, it acknowledged the point. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the budget board, that this was expected to be an unrealistic assessment, an increase of the S-marked medicinal product would be larger than expected here. There is also concern about how little investment seems to take place. The construction of a new hospital, the design of a treatment core, as well as the completion of the hospital's emergency hotel, would not be expected to complete the Norwegian tunnel and the prison at Hólar, but would not be too much for what to do, if anything. That's a real concern because there's a great need for infrastructure here, it's been pushed aside. Investment is estimated to be 30.2 billion 2017, 30.7 2018, and 32.3 in 2019, 1.2% of GDP. It's very small, and it's a worry. There's one more thing I wanted to come in on, but there's the irregular joints called. I make comments on how many teams are put under this hat. These irregularities, which are pension debt, capital tax, tax exposés, unemployment, rural capital, state-responsibilities, loss of cost fees, payment for apartment loans, subsidence of deposit and interest fees. There is really nothing here that should be classed as irregular, except for perhaps contributions to the apartment loans and subsidies of the prices of housing. Other factors are those that, as shown in this schedule, are more and less per year with a similar number. Some of this certainly is difficult to predict as unemployment, but if you have good data, they should be able to provide for the team like pension bonds a few years into the past, which also write down taxes. This raises questions. During 2016, irregular joints are expected to be less than 24% of the estimated total cost of this year. There's a lot of help that the government views as out of control. I want to reiterate that I feel that all of this is too small and I don't think it's too much of an attempt to work a detailed and careful plan four years into the future. I'm sure there's always some uncertainty, but I don't think it's good enough, and especially when a government comes so few weeks after this case has been delivered, and it's suddenly starting to go to a budget she probably didn't know about when she was working on it a few months earlier. Then you wonder, " How are we going to change our work habits and how we are going to take on Swea's long - term strategy? ' Of course, this can only be done if one gets used to it and takes such a job seriously. I feel like this document's work just wasn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u79	Mr. President. It's a test plan we're talking about, it's the first time that's put out. By now it's right next to what's going on. A member of the council and others here mentioned that much is unclear and very uncertain. Hv. A senator made the State's interest rates and expenses a significant subject. Then I'm going to let her hear my attitude toward it. I think one of the missing ones on this matter - maybe because it's hard to handle at the moment we're at - is just how the interest cost could fall out of the pension. I think we're just ahead of the drop-of-the-money stand and we've missed the best time, that's gotta be done within nine months, I think. But there is no other way to do this than to seriously harm a piece of crown farm property. The conclusion of the past government, and it seems to me that the current level is exactly the same, is that it has to be scraped off at a rate of 350 billion, it has to be left in Iceland owned by the state. It has been shown by the highest power. Prime Minister that he has accepted the fact that nothing will be used except to pay off the debt of the State. But this is 350 billion, that is the fifth of the state's gross debt. This means that interest costs should be reduced by 18 billion when needed preparation has been achieved. This is just to show that I believe that in this synonym, there is a vaccination, with which the government is more successful in selling. But to continue, I come to my question, which is just the cost of interest: Have trouble. A senator wondered how much interest money the Icelandic State would cost if my dream and some other people's, that Iceland becomes a member of the European Union, would become a reality?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u80	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. It is also my dream that we adopt another constant currency, which, of course, I look to the euro and enter the European Union. I'm kind of amazed at how little that debate is going to get in Iceland. Last night, I was listening to the radio, which was comparing the interest rates of Icelandic homes to the interest rates in the North countries. Of course, a stable currency would not necessarily ensure that interest costs are like those in the other North countries. It is true what the existing government says, and I think everyone realizes that government discipline is fundamental. It does not mean giving up a budget every year, and we must, of course, show discipline. But I think that would be the best, but it's somewhere in the future. In the meantime, all we can do is try to reduce the debt. I would have liked to use the 80 or 100 billion people who went into debt to do that. Just that it would have dropped -- now I can't calculate it quickly, but I feel like we've been looking at it in the past and that it could have dropped interest payments as sensitivity to 5 billion a year, i.e. if we had reduced the debt of 100 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u81	Mr. President. If we play numbers, it's obvious we're the highest. A government that is now seated has given up 30 billion dollars a year by canceling various taxes. That's 120 billion in terms. If you put it into practice, then the 80 billion will be as good as yours. A senator mentioned earlier, that's 200 billion. It's a bit dramatic in the state's gross debt, and I guess it could be said that if we had reached it and paid off the debt that would be sensitive to it, we would probably be lowering the State's interest costs by 12 billion or so. If we were in the European Union, because I am a man who lives in the future, and was paying for, for example, the same interest rate as the Greeks, we wouldn't be paying 90 billion today. Then we'd be paying 30 billion, 1/3 of what we're paying today. [[The president calls.]] The cost of standing outside the European Union alone is 60 billion a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u82	A respectable president. We'd be better here in Iceland, and here it would be better if more people listened to it. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson and me and the rest of those who speak for our recording of another currency. The experiment with the crown has failed. It's just that way, it's failed. I don't really know how we're going to get this thing going, but it's the biggest thing in my life. If we're going to improve the standard of living here in Iceland, we need a currency that people really want. Then we can't have an unconvinced crown and such a worthless crown; and then anyone in charge will get paid and whoever it can pay in other currency. It just doesn't work. It is true that this government has, in some respects, been giving up money since it began. I remember the first thing about not raising the sink of lodging, from 7% to 14%, that no one was even making comments that everyone expected. Then that's the first thing, and there we became between half a billion and one billion in 2013 and probably 2 to 3 billion in 2014; or I'm confused, 2014 and then 2015.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u83	V.E.G. President. I think I'm right about how much more expensive this coffee stand in Rovaniel, northern Finland, than the coffee cup in a restaurant in Sicily. However, there is euro in both places. Does it seem that interest rates and debts in general are the same anywhere in the European area as in the Valley of Knives and in Reykjavík, simply because people didn't borrow at the same price in the Valley of Snivel as in the Icelandic bank? There is a dollar in both places and in all these places. It's so simple that it's bordering to simpleness. This does not provide a realistic image, this debate on currency, and the great Kingdom of Heaven that people think the European Union is, that all of them are paid here. I want to thank you. A senator for a good speech. She will discuss the subject here, which is a proposal for a resolution on the state budget of 2016 ◯2019. As far as I could understand why. A senator would consider it worth the effort to establish such a strategy, but it is worse than at home if the plan is primarily planned for formal reasons, because the contents are not to be relied on. It is true that there are many uncertainties. I want to pray. A senator simply told us, so that a person might be more aware of its emphasis on the subject: Who are in brief on the key uncertainty factors that make this financial program unattainable?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u84	There are plenty of uncertainty issues like I spent a considerable amount of powder on to 10th, e.g. The interest rate. It can remember billions if, in the near future, interest rates increase, whether we pay 70 billion or 100 billion or 150 billion just for growth. It's a risk factor. The agreements -- it's set in the plan that there's a risk factor and we can't see the end of it. The general labour market has now been negotiated. The government is making a package, I guess it's 20 billion in the end, 16 billion just as a reduction in income tax in the season. Then we're not seeing any pay raise, which will probably be the time when people negotiate with the public sector. Of course, there is a major risk factor, which is removed, and we put forth effort to achieve it as successfully as possible. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator, of course, says that growth rates vary from place to place. It depends on a number of other factors, they do not look the same in the whole of the euro. But it is unmistakably true that the pressures of having as little stock as a dollar - the least currency in the world, I think. Isn't it sometimes said that there's a Disney dollar bigger? It is a danger, and it takes time. Of course, there is no heaven in this, the European Union, but there are advantages and faults that we need to be prepared to weigh and be prepared to discuss them honestly. If people in this country are calling for a better growth rate, a better standard of living, and are fleeing to Europe because they don't find their way of life here, we have to face them and try to make sure that living things are as good as possible here. One way is by receiving a constant currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u85	V.E.G. President. People live in different standards in the European Union as much as they do in this country. I have personally been a member of the European Union, and I have seen in it how people are able to obtain housing, and I see the standard of living there and similar groups of work, and I am not of great profit in the European Union. There are so many factors involved, and in this discussion, I often feel that people are the great generalists, probably on both sides. I want to thank you. A senator for clear answers. She mentions the growth rate, there's an uncertainty factor. It refers to the collective agreements and measures associated with them, the loss of income taxes, as well as a contribution to housing. Restrained is one of the factors. Then I'd like to ask who. A senator would have been normal if we had settled and completed a transport plan, with large financial contributions, before we would be able to discuss a proposal for a financial programme. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u86	A respectable president. Yes, it would have been normal, and as we know, she came all too late forward -- the last day according to a work plan, didn't she? That is exactly what is so important that if we are trying to see ahead, shape direction, and maintain discipline, we must follow a plan. That does not mean throwing in a transport plan on the last day. Certainly this is the first time men try it, and it's respectable, so that you don't have a lot of negative feelings. Although it is good to see that this document exists, it needs to be prepared so much better. This document should not be the sole thing about sleeping here at the council and saying, "Well, we have a plan. It doesn't help anything if it's not carefully processed and based on evidence. As I mentioned my speech, the matter is hardly taken up at the expense of a government fund that is more than 10 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u87	V.E.G. President. I'm not here to enter the bigger picture, discussion about the European Union, and the possible recording of a new currency, even though I'm not very interested in it, the highest. President. But I come here because of a particular team, which are the S-labelled medicines. Reports have discussed the limitation of the bioavailability of these medicinal products, and this is not for objective reasons, but for the apparent reason that the rules were changed in the past, so that a specific dinner is placed on each class of drug groups. On a welfare committee, we are studying this and will request that a minister and a representative of a pharmaceutical commission come to our meeting next week. I just wanted to hear more about this subject at the council, because what happened at the end of the year was that the majority of the parts here at the council decided that the S-labelled medicinal products should fall under the drug payment system. So far, the S-labelled medicinal products have been set free for those they receive. We strongly objected to this, but we felt very uncertain about how to implement it. There were more than 6.6 billion donations in the budget, but less than 6.5 billion in the law, the contributions to the class were reduced by over a hundred billion. I wanted to ask you why. Councilman: Did it show what the Ministry's policy was about the S-labelled medicinal products and whether it should be avoided if it should be avoided as a result of an increase in expenses to the public? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u88	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. The welfare committee will discuss this case, it's something that needs to be resolved. Of course, health care expenses may actually grow indefinitely, there is no roof, there is always better. For the S-labelled medicinal products I would like to ask: What costs, as in the case of the people who have been in the news right now, to do nothing? What other health - care costs will be involved if someone does not receive medicines that can directly help a person to work then, stay in a job market, and remain healthy? Then I'm just talking about financial significance, I'm not talking about what it means to people. You may also wonder back then, and I may not feel that we do enough, in what way we can reduce the cost of medication, if we look at ourselves as a people who consume a lot of drugs. In many cases, use of hypnotics, antipsychotics, antihypertensives, and other medicinal products may be reduced by other means. But are patients getting the help they need, such as changing their diet and so forth? For example, do doctors refer to nutritionists? We cannot assume that everyone is on the move to change their lifestyle, which can be very complex and difficult. I find so many things so exciting in this group of languages, as a matter of course. A senator knows well. But I think it would be a lot to try to reduce the cost of medicine, since lifestyle changes can make a difference. But the S-labelled medicinal products are now mainly such, I think, that these are diseases that are difficult and can't be done in it. And, of course, we want to be a nation that gives our subjects the best possible service.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Yes, it is indeed, so the reduction in drug costs is a constant matter. Here in the hall is a good time. A member of the former health minister, Guðer Þórðarson, one of the many advisers who have worked hard for it; and there's a lot at stake, and it's going to be a constant subject. However, the S-labelled medicinal products that have been discussed now are, for example, medicines due to drying of the eye at the back of the eye in older people and for cancer. Of course, its rate increases as the nation's age grows. The market has more expensive and more expensive products than it is to improve people's quality of life and health potential as well. [[The president calls.]] It will not be so much the pleasure of people being discriminated against, depending on when they get sick in the year, because that's when we're leaving a civilized society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u90	A respectable president. You're absolutely right. One senator says, it's very strange that it matters when a year you get sick, not even equal in it. I reiterate that I like to hear that this matter is to be taken up on a welfare committee. I understood that we had made it -- I'm not a specialist in these S-labelled drugs - some system, that we take these drugs when some other country has started using the drug, whether it was one of the North countries and the United Kingdom. Whether it's changed since then, I won't say it. Hv. A senator introduced a credit system that is being tried to work on, which, in fact, puts high hopes in it. Today, it is unfair to see how some drugs cost you, and then some diseases can put you in serious financial trouble. Nothing should be like that. Surely we want to try to balance this cost somehow. It may be a difficult decision because some groups will then have to pay those who have not done so until now, while others will enjoy it. [[The president calls.]] I can't wait for that committee to finish work and we'll take it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u91	Mr. President. I'm going to make a comment on this proposal for Congress resolution on a financial programme. There's a lot of things to do, but I'd like to start by thanking the secretary of finance and the Ministry for this document and the work done. Similarly, I asked for a minister from a hearing chair that he would appear before a financial committee and discuss the recent changes taken by the government, both the 2.6 billion, that went into transport and infrastructure, and the estimated 20 billion on the basis of collective agreements. In view of the fact that the financial committee and its guardians have been talking a lot about maintenance and supervision, I think it's wise that we go over this. The overall share of GDP is expected to drop somewhat rapidly from less than 68% to 50% in 2019, and this aim is for the decline of around 15%. That is the question, in view of what was said here, if there is any chance we can fulfill it, but of course we hope we will. It is the role of the State Department that the Council has the opportunity to pass through the policies established by the Government and the Ministers in its behalf, the task of molding the budget for the future. This is, like, not the first time that such a piece of paper has been submitted, I think it was done three times before; it was supposed to be submitted in the previous year, but it was postponed. But this is about the fact that we see the box and how the Ministry divides the money between lawsuits, that the Council deals with it, and has some way of covering it with government messages. I think it's worth a guess, in this document, that the measures taken at the time were effective. This is made up of both the development of inflation and the prowess, and then we need to consider what comes out of those collective agreements now, whether we can maintain it. But during the last term, when we were backing up the financial equation that everyone wants to achieve, no matter where they stand in politics - it's just a different methodology used for it - we wanted to reduce interest rates and turn them into something that could be transferred to welfare and not continue to collect debts. But I think we just needed time, I think that it turns out that we couldn't have walked closer than the system was in the light of the circumstances, and I think it was wise to do so in this way. There are many uncertainty factors in the synonym, that are widely stated, including collective agreements. The Kingdom will negotiate with its members of the medical profession, and that is important. I think we need to keep in mind, when we make the deal, that the income that men think they can earn, by the politics they say, will not be necessary to cut down somewhere in return. I understand that today's government meeting has been proposed, but that's a big concern, and that's what we're facing in national society. It is vital that we succeed, and all of us have spoken for the fact that this is what we want to do. The foundation for what we're talking about here is so much about how that case works. It's said here that growth is driven by increased investments, both professional, industrial and apartment investments. We see this differently, depending on where we are in politics, i.e. whatever it's about to go ahead. I'm worried about the combination and the politics that appeared here in this council case. So I run here and back in the motion then come out on page. 38 of these emission trends, assuming that the actual growth of the budget gate will be less or slower than that of GDP up to 2019. This means that the proportion of primarys without irregular joints of GDP is reduced by 1 percent. It's a very low number that tells us in human language that a tiny piece of the national cake gets in that we can run our welfare system and build up the interiors of society, and they're likely to get sick if there's no better improvement than here. I don't think it's the kind of future political thing that's in many ways up here. Travellers are spoken of as one of the main drives. There's a lot to believe that she'll continue much. I'm worried about that, too. This has only been the case so that much of the activity has not been suggested to reduce the appeal of tourism in spite of this great start. Well, there's a little bit about building a lot of giant hotels, and it's called the expansion of the service units here. I think it's the big one, and it's the big one, instead of thinking about the producer. Of course, we need to invest much more in tourism education. We also need to be more supportive of the tourism companies, the small, procrastinator companies there, but you're concerned about all these giant hotel buildings, that this will blow up in our face. I'm concerned that this is something our little nation can stand for the future to have so many hotels. At any rate, we need to prepare for the fact that this article can dip like any other article at some point and that we will be prepared for it. It speaks of the commercial investment, how small it has been, which is in itself true. It's been quite low, far below long term average. As one puts it, the picture on page is very well illustrated. 13 She has not been able to keep track of her birthdays. Of course, it is very risky to say, and it may be said that we are moving too much into the future, including the building of transportation and infrastructure in spite of the money that was in the day - to - day transport. There's a lot of concerns, the way people set this thing up here. The result is said to be around 10 billion, with 40 being held in its policies. This means that the process of living depends on this primary objective, that there will be demand for management, which we believe is in danger compared with what has been said and done here. I took an answer to the chairman of a legal committee on the premeditation of the B-C Penitentiary of the State's Penitentiary, where 5 billion are expected from the start of 2017. I think we all agree that this is a lot of money into the future. The pension fund continues to grow, and we have to start paying to make sure that this will not be one large bomb in the future; it is wise to do so. But this brings us to the fore on page 20. 24 That the account on the foundation needs to be given 5 billion increases in the available funds. It's not clear whether the 5 billion that can be used at a financial foundation to pay off this pension commitment or onto it, or whether it needs to be borrowed. Like what? The head of the legislature board said that they should use as much of what was left over in the positive business of a state fund to pay off debt. We cannot use the same money as it hasn't been answered. The minister didn't answer, when I asked him here in answer to the previous discussion, whether this was the way. Then there are the uncertainty factors that have been considered in this regard regarding the camp loan fund and his future ship. Hv. paritaprevir The concentration of Jónasson's son came to the very conclusion that whether related to a crown or a euro, it did not change the fact that people everywhere did not have the same access to loans in comparable terms, and unfortunately it has proved to be that way. Therefore, it is important that the country's settlement be assured of the development of large changes in the Slurpee loan fund, which has had inert interest for a very long time. We know that it has been put in a lot of money, but it is not taken into consideration in this program. If economic trauma occurs, there's nothing anticipated, but I can agree that it may be difficult. I wanted to come into the budget range only on page 1. 28th Plans include some 4 billion dollars. budgets to be set in the later stages of the budget to individual lawsuits in accordance with the government's policy. This may be the basis for what we're discussing here that the government's policy is actually not presented in this suit unless it is very superficial. What is involved in investing in anything other than what is already being done? What is it that the right government wants to stress? That may be what we need to know, for there are many things we can change when it comes to it. So there is a long - term plan for these 4 billion, but nothing about what to use. In fact, it is said that half will be determined in the next year for permanent purposes, and as is the case with temporary action and building projects. It would be interesting to know if they had any ideas about what was under there, if they had received any introduction. I'd also like to make the S-labelleds a subject, a so-called hospital medicine that people get when they're sick. I agree with the discussion that we have to do better earlier. We can do better than that in many places, and we need to think about it. Of course, it is noteworthy that the Regulation is ready, but it has not been implemented, and there is another uncertainty factor that we have not formally received from a minister. Of course, the Ministry of Ministry has visited the branch office and explained that there are millions who are not expected and who are likely to be included in the budget. This is not to be expected because a minister had, of course, prepared this Regulation, but has decided not to implement it as yet, at least, which means a decline in the amount of time remaining. Here are some other things I'd like to say. We often talk about trying to maintain discipline, and we want to try to do so. Then there's this irregular joint, and the total payment rate is something that I think we're supposed to plan to make a significant difference. For most teams in there, it can be estimated. There's a lot of them. It is the financial debt of commitment, the capital tax subsidies of the state's funds, the fictitious income, unemployment, rural debt, state guarantees, lost demands and damages, contributions to the camp loans, subsidies transfers of deposit and interest fees. There are a lot of these things that can be estimated, these are 512 billion, which is far too much money to always take out of parentheses. I think those who want to manage state affairs by discipline must aim to reduce the number of these teams. There are also other matters that are not expected in this document, including the prime products of the social and housing minister, which are expected to cost considerably. It is strange that nothing is expected there. It is not surprising, then, that you make comments that in this program, this is not a minor document, so if you are not wondering how to finance things. We need to consider these things. It is a sin of utter interpretation in a later discussion, which means that it does not happen again to the committee. There is concern that the chairman of the budget board should encourage the agreement to remain unconvinced, without wishing to be made aware of the impact of all the teams I have considered, there is concern that people are going to accept something that they know will not work out. I got it. I got it. The members of the greater part of the congregation are concerned about this, even though it was only that their speeches would show that they were concerned about certain issues or that some change would be needed, etc.; it's that mine doesn't know the responsibility. A respectable president. I'll arrive in a second talk, and I'll take a closer look at what my minority put away in a joint committee party and maybe take a closer look at a particular team.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u92	A respectable president. There are some aspects of this schedule that I would like to discuss with you. A senator. I'm gonna start here at one. On page 18. 2 discusses the sale of government property at the Bank of the Lands, and it says that sales are expected to be at 30% share in the Bank of the Lands (U.S.A.) between 2015 and 2016. When we're accepting a government budget, you want it as realistic as possible. So I want to ask you why. A senator whether it has appeared to the commission that there is a possibility that sales will be conducted in the National Bank this year or the next year. I'd love to have a reaction from what I heard. A senator to see if it is really possible. If this is to be expected in the income of this budget, we are to set off with a high degree of error. In fact, you can see it more than that. It's amazing how uncivilized the budget is. Although I'm pleased that it has come out as such, I don't know how useful it is when people don't do everything inside, especially what's known. Second, I'd like to mention, in terms of selling state property at the Lands Bank, that it is in the approval of the Agency that he is opposed to being sold by the Lands Bank, he wants him to be a community bank. If I understand that concept correctly, I'm not expected to have one item sold in that bank. I'd also like to know, as the head of the Commission is a candidate, whether this discussion took place, and if there were any problems after this policy was adopted by the forward group. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u93	Mr. President. No, this has not been a formal conversation with the committee. True, it is authorized to sell this thing, but one is amazed, in the light of that which is swift. However, a senator reported on the approval of a convention of candidates, which I understand was unanimous that the head of the Committee suggests that the plan will still be agreed on here. That's why I said in my final comment that I'd like to hear the members of the greater part come up here and explain if they think they've changed, you might discuss it. Of course it is. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, president of the budget board, may change her mind as did the rest of us, and perhaps from the time she was sitting at the council, at least she suggested this. Now I don't know if she's discussed it at her party or what, but there's no way that she can replace it. People expect increased income, irregular income, which may be to replace, but then this document is not correct. If people are falling away and say: We can get this money elsewhere, which will come from the sale of the Bank of America - well and well, if there's evidence, we need to say, "We don't agree with what's going on here, so on. " That's what happened. The chairman of the budget board is not. So I have doubts. It will be interesting to see how the Agency's party approves this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u94	A respectable president. I appreciate those answers. I'd like to reiterate the question about the yearlines because these assets are expected to be sold this year and the next. Then you ask yourself, " How practical is this plan when people set out like this? ' I think I can say that this year I don't stand to sell things in the Lands Bank, that this year's environment is uncertain and if we get the best price for it. There are a number of things you wonder about this plan. The leading list of objects says: The strategy shows that the sum of interest from a bank collapse at the 2015 price is about 580 billion. So it is urgent to sell stocks in financial companies and other partners... It is said that it is urgent to sell these property items in financial companies and to build up for what is stated in the national budget for the sale of the property items at the Bank of the Lands. So it seems that the candidates sold their policy, and then it's just a question of what it was done. I'd like to ask you what. Finally, a senator: on page 20. Thirty-four of the GDP is being considered on a review of the merit tax system. It says, by permission of the president: The evaluation of the value of the tax system will also be continued with the objective of moving the system into simpler and more modern values and strengthening it as a income source. From my reading skills, the Korean dyslexia, I can see this in a way that would further increase the lower steps, make one step, and lower the upper steps. In other words, it means to increase the food tax and tax on necessities. [[The president calls.]] Did you talk about this? Did there be any ideas on how this should be done in a different way than what I'm saying here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u95	Mr. President. Therefore, it is quickly stated: No, it was not discussed with regard to the value of tax changes. This may be what happened, and it was not a good business, that the Ministry was accepted into a financial committee before the minister spoke for the case. So we were discussing something that had already been provided, had not been recommended, and had not yet been contacted by a minister, but had gone directly to the Ministry. So it will be different, and it is not traditional to do things this way, and questions have been raised later. It didn't get much publicity on a budget board, so that's just what they say, pretty little. We have little share in two other financial companies that may not necessarily be able to stop into the hole here. But of course it's interesting--and I look forward to, because I know that one off. The candidate next gives a talk - to know how he feels about this. I think they have to answer for that. I would have loved to see how much those senators of the House of forwards have spoken about the legal matters of the households have to say because this is a serious document. I think it's very interesting if people don't think it's a reason to talk about it in here. People get up and down here, sing two minutes songs about how great the government is, but they can't take a serious debatment of serious matters. It's an amazing, respectable president. With respect to the extra tax, that's right for the rest, it's not been discussed. Nor can I see any other way, and understand it the same way as the other. Senator, but that here will be one step, and that means an increase in assessments like everything else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u96	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a proposal for a resolution on the terms of a budget budget for 2016-2019. I'm mostly going to discuss the form and point of my speech, but it's to improve the dating coverage of goals and key lines. That's how I look at this synopsis proposal, this government budget, i.e. Purpose and purpose. This is, of course, my point, about a plan to discuss. The motion has been discussed. The budget board from the highest. The Secretary of Economics and Economics placed it before the General Assembly here in April. This is in line with 25. track No. 55/1991, of the General Assembly. That is especially the case, in 6. mg, and the proposal contains a budget for the next year, a workup on income and changes there and a plan for the next three years, i.e. Until 2019. It has been repeated in this discussion that this is the first time that such a plan is made, and it has even been heard to consider it. I'd like to reiterate that it's a big step that I think we're taking, and very important, when we look at the policy effects it has for the whole budget and budget work for every year, to put it on this channel. However, as the greater part points out in its committee study, so the budget has so far been used by the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and therefore, this proposal builds up the first attack to a large extent in the habitual process of making use of it in this proposal. At the same time, it is suggested that last year, the budget that we know and receive here in the fall is discussed on the basis of a plan, as we will see in section of this program. It is the basis for the next year. However, there are new indicators here which are defined in the main areas of the budget. In general, policy follow-up goals. The objectives then follow up with action programme and implementation of plan and monitoring, and this will occur in the following order. All jobs will be more targeted and implementation will be more efficient, and all reviews and decisions can thus become more informed and conscious. That's how I look at this first donation. Thus, the dignity of the president, it is here to adopt a strategy that, if we follow it, changed the way of the Generals and show what we want to accomplish. In the end, it may be the most important thing to look to the state's position in this context and to the future and the ability of a government fund to fulfill the role that we are going to make public. Twenty-fiveth. Congress is laid down in the form of this strategy as I came in. In progress, there is a bill on public financial matters and on the discussion of the legal committee. This bill provides additional support for financial and financial policies. I just want to come into their goals of law. In chapter I, 1. Article 3 of this magazine, published by Jehovah's Witnesses in the United States and the World Translation of the Holy Scriptures, has been published by the European Parliament. Il. The section of this bill discusses the financial policy of the government, Article 4. will take into account the policies and objectives of development and will take place according to the baseline values to follow. It's slightly intervening in the opinion of a greater part of the day. The budget board. I quote the majority opinion as the chairman of the budget board, anyway. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, made progress. It says, by permission of the president: The more part suggests that there will be further growth in the exchange of expenses, not only for economic exchange, but also for each Ministry and their litigation classes. Then the plan will be taken from five to four. These changes are in line with Article 5. A bill to legalize public financial matters that deals with financial programmes. In view of the greater part, this article includes the box for financial programmes from next year onwards. So it is my faith and hope that we are here to step into the future with a powerful policy tool that can increase the discipline of government funds and enable us to play better together financial policies and make it possible for those who hold money policy to take into account government policy. At the same time, it will allow us to approach the desirable terms of government discipline and increase the likelihood that action on the tax and payment side will last. As we look at the tools of the United Nations Bank, such as the interest scale, we can expect this interaction to become even stronger in balance and stability. In the 5th. Thus, the standard of public finance is a precise review of the economic, economic, and economic plans. The proposal now sets out national and economic measures taken by the government. At the same time, the underlying factors for development and what may be the most important, in the event of a strategy, are identified as the uncertainty factors that can, of course, affect them. As shown in the many debates, they are uncertain. Council members, are the largest: a currency disposal programme and the impact of collective agreements. But there are other factors, such as growing aging, pension commitments, and the consequences of a camp loan, which way we take it. It's certainly a good idea. This is done on page 18. 24 In the council arrangement itself. There, in addition to what I mentioned, we discussed interest rates. Of course, there is much to be discovered and potential changes will be due to the implementation of the EU emissions programme and how we work out the labour agreements available in a general labour market of some 70,000 employees. There is also a budget for income and remuneration during this four - year period of 2016-52019, which will result in the final phase of the financial development of the community in connection with the government's finances. Despite the limitations of spending, it is very important to be able to see for the first time specific goals in the main areas of the budget. In this way, you can see the main objectives and are put together in a section called an aluminium list. It says about the survival of a government fund, with the permission of a president: ▪ The payoff of the state funds continues to improve over time and the rest will be at least 1% of gross domestic product (VLF) in 2018 Second, it says: The growth rate of VLPs is not increased from 2015 up to 2019.◯ As it has been shown in financial terms, we're talking about a fine balance between us, if we can put it that way. Also says the debt of state funds: In the late 2015's, the 'precipitto' debt reduces about 10% to a name value and reduces about 15% as a share of VLP to the end of 2019.156. This, as clearly indicated in the proposal, will occur in part because production is growing relatively faster than we pay off debt. Thus, a continuous debt pool has already been stopped - perhaps most important in this - the collection we have seen since 2008 or the years after the collapse of the banking system. When the first year of this government's budget was set up with a positive outcome, income overpay, and thus a debt exchange was stopped. It is then very important to promote economic stability and, especially, maintain the stability achieved. We have not experienced as much time as has now been in terms of prices with inflation over the past year, under the border of the U.S. Penitentiary. That's a fact, a respectable president. The plan shows that uncertainty about the outcome of collective agreements, as I mentioned, and their possible impact on prices. There is now a contract between the general labour market and its appearance, if defined as the first response, that they alone and not necessarily have to interfere with the stability achieved. However, it has been stated in the case of the executive body of the industry that the contracts will put pressure on it but not in this way, as expected even by the highest standards. Enterprises, by extension and management, can limit the prices and the activities of the industry. It is important that the result continues to be stable, and this is the key to the continuation of the contracts. There is a strong uncertainty with the effect of a planned waste disposal programme at the time. It's reported, there's nothing going on with it, in the suggestion. Most if not all of them. Senators who have discussed the plan here have come to their attention. As I said at the outset, a respectable president, I was going to enter the discussion on this matter primarily to discuss the form and scope of the state's affairs. Preparation for this process has been in progress for a longer time and was legalized in the Council of 2011. I've often talked about the importance of working out policy and main lines, from the total sizes, with this order. That's why I'm so happy that we're taking this program here for the first time in this form, although the preparations have truly been started much earlier. I would certainly like to discuss here some individual teams, both the heads of national interest and the actions involved in the income and expenditure programme discussed on page 20. In the proposal and economic force of financial and, mainly, financial programs involved in subsidies. If government funds are to be used to function in stability and to balance economic swings, how important it is that we continue working to cancel debt! The majority of these factors are addressed on page 6. 2 in their committee party. Hv. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, chairman of the Board of Fundament, did well for that exchange. However, the chart on page 24 shows that we should be careful not to give up. 4 in the proposal itself is a fine overview of the actions displayed in the government policy; measures involved in renting the income-side and spending on the debet-side. The national criteria that I may have discussed most in the form and the setting is based on this program. In the interest of collective agreements and employment debates, there is an interesting picture on page 18. 9 of the proposal to demonstrate the development of capitalism and inflation from the turn of the century. It shows that if the period 2002/2003 and 2013/2015 are excluded, the inflation rate has increased during this period. This may be a sign of the leading action that got out of hand, or perhaps an image of the whole time 2003/007 - of course, the beginning of the turn of the century can be determined, but I want to be sure that if we look ahead, and in the stability that has been achieved since 2013 to this point, our most important project for the future will be to speak about the circumstances and work on those grounds. There's a package of action at the top. Governments and existing contracts, reaching some 70,000 employees, government contracts with government employees, who are hopefully getting caught, and implementing a currency waste disposal are all, i.e. the details of the problem and this project, the larger teams in the uncertainty that lies below. I'd like to at the end to quote the suggestion myself, since I spoke most of the shape and setting; of course, I agree with this plan as such. This is a plan, and a plan always puts us in line to view policy - making measures; we need to figure out what can affect the plan and reexamine it regularly. In view of this, I agree that subspecies could be part of this overall program, which was mentioned here in the discussion. Transport Plan -- if I remember correctly, it was a good idea. paritaprevir An example of this is the reaction of Jónasson's jealous son, who faced a massive amount of expenses. There is, of course, a subprogram for a national financial programme. I planned to conclude my speech by quoting the proposal where they said it would be by permission of a president: A high priority in the state's economy, with a leanless and sustainable government system, is a solid foundation for the economy. Stable and sustainable economic growth supported by responsible economic management is the main component of the 2016/2219 budget. I think it's the setting we're moving into, the goal we're going to. to achieve successful implementation of emissions and to maintain financial protection, to take into account the impact of collective agreements, to evaluate them, and to continue with stability and payment aims. So I look to that plan, and of course it will be as practical and as thorough as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u97	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the speech. He stresses and appreciates the careful planning, values its value, and agrees with me. A senator on this matter. We have not been particularly impressed with making careful plans for government money, as shown by the budget, though we have been able to fix it, at least during our last terms, a lot from what used to be. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he or she is concerned about it, and if it doesn't reduce the value of the plan, that it is already so severed up, both by tax change and by cost of the tax and by the top housing plant. Social and housing minister who is not expected in the programme. The other thing I'd like to ask you. A member of the Parliament is: The program considers the urgent task of paying off debts. I think we all agree that it is a sensitive position for a guilty nation not to be able to pay as soon as possible to make a big debt. However, it is expected that the honor will be paid down by sales of 30% shares in the National Bank, or sales, in other companies. The forwarding party has now accepted for its part that they do not want to sell shares at the Bank of the Lands. I want to pray. A senator reviewing whether or not this will be in the government budget, whether the candidates will vote for it. If not: What other societies - know why. The senators that - are they talking about selling if the stock is not able to sell it at the Bank of the Lands?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u98	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for her questions. When it comes to the government's efforts to cover collective labour agreements, it is a major operation and it is clearly shown in the plan that there is an uncertainty factor on the outcome of collective agreements. I think it was inevitable to get to the top. A government would have a handsome game and be able to link housing reforms, and especially social housing improvements, and measures on the tax side affecting the income-counting side, to improve provision and to improve the cost of the minimum wage. The primary objective was met, the lowest salary will be here at the end of the period of 300,000 k, the lowest salary increased most. Then there is a milder effect up the pay level. I appreciate that. But for the plan, that's how I appreciate it - it's in the plan -- that it's certainly an uncertainty show, and it's a huge, but we're drawn to it. So I don't think it's a disgrace to the plan, but I still respect that point of view. Senator. In time, we will have a stronger budget and a more realistic, more detailed plan. We can then give ourselves in advance what will be the potential effect and scope of such agreements. I have to answer a huge question, a second question, in a second answer. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u99	Mr. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I miss, I have to say, the government policy has not been given more space in the budget and housing policy, for example, had no space in the program itself, since it was not falling right while negotiating a public labour market. I hope so. A senator can answer my questions about sales at the National Bank, things there, and the attitude of the forward party. If this is not done, I ask him to inform me of what other societies are underneath; those mentioned, but not specifically mentioned when other communities are to be sold to pay off debts. I'm asking why. A senator realizes that if he votes with a government budget as well, he would agree to go against the 69th par. the law on social security by agreeing that those who have to rely on reform will not get ups in rhythm while developing a labour market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u100	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a new Harðardóttir daughter for the questions. I first come to the resolution of a platoon of candidates to look to the Bank of America as a community bank. Ideas are good, and I can't see that we can't keep up with what is suggested in a budget plan, about selling 30% of shares; I think it's very desirable for us to release things in order to pay off debt, which was founded among other things to restore the financial system that has been successful. It dishonors the fact that, by 70%, it is possible to contribute to a community bank in the majority - owned state funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u101	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. I find it interesting what he says here in the rest. I thought it was approved not to sell this 30% warrant for today. I wanted to talk to the senator about the investments anticipated in this document. On page 18. 6 says, with permission from the President: ▪ The low investment level of government over the past few years cannot be processed. In such a situation, financial resources work on which the growth potential of the economy is permanently reduced. There is the possibility that public investments will not be increased. This is about 1.2% of GDP. I think it was 4◯5% before a crash. Of course, one would think that this infrastructure is being placed on the future and on our children. Although the government has thrown some small money into it, there is no future for it. I'd like to ask the senator if he's not concerned about this and if he doesn't feel that there's a clearer limit to being laid. We're not just talking about the proportion of national product, 2017, 2018, and 2019 is almost the same number, 30 billion, 30 to 32 percent, something like that. This is hardly acceptable. It is also spoken of some 6 billion to 7 billion allowances, but it is not stated in what type of investments it should make. So I ask the senator, " Does he know anything other than we do about this investment? ' Does he not think that we need to invest in the building of health care or nursing homes or other items, some of which are involved in tourism, and all that we've discussed here? This space does not seem to tell us that it is ahead of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u102	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir for the investment question. Investors have indeed been growing over the years, but slower than we would have chosen. Its growth in this program is mainly driven by an investment in the industry. It's very important. It is now that we need to invest beyond normal maintenance and renewal, and as we watch the interaction of investments and unsubscribe them, we are not attributed to the state's financial account, but we have the potential to add. It will be difficult to evaluate everything we know about the future as linear citations, since it usually works for the infrastructure we invest in for a much longer time, over a period of tens of years. Well, I guess we'd have to look at some kind of tragedy in it. To answer this question, I feel that the most positive thing in my plan is that my investment is being driven by professional investments. We keep sea in public investments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u103	Mr. President. I would have wanted to hear more clearly from what I was doing. A senator on this subject. I think he took a little time not answering whether it's acceptable what it looks like in this program. I don't think so. We know that this calls for investments in many places that, as was said here, a transport plan is not subject to and is not expected for Land Hospitals, etc. There are a lot of basics that obviously cannot be dealt with. Hv. When asked about the social insurance, a senator did not answer that they did not adhere to law and pay development. It would be interesting to have his answer to that question. Of course, it's one of those princes we'd like to follow, and we don't want to be violated. It is stated in this document that the consumption of the combination is almost to the minimum if this is going to be the case. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether it is something that the forward party can accept. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u104	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the question. Only with regard to investments this way: Yes, the public is making investments that do not clearly appear in the plan but that are improving, in addition to the investment side, so it in itself is positive. Hv. A senator named land hospital and infrastructure in travel services here, and of course the trades are here. The profession such as this in the tourism service is building here an enormous body, which we could call an external travel agency. We must not forget to distinguish between what we call the wood, which uses every citizen of society, and the outer type where the industry must have room and space to invest in hotels and more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u105	President. There's a reason to thank you. A senator for an interesting speech; she was a fine summary of some of the basics of this proposal, especially its reasons and frames. It was reminded that it began in 2011. The senator was correct in saying that it has been some ideal period of effort to make these matters bearable. Hopefully, he is correct in saying that the experiment here with the contributions of this financial program will become evidence that something more and something that can give us more solid shapes and discipline in these areas. However, I would like to use this opportunity because this kind of plan is political, although, of course, technically technically; it is political, not only the government's affairs in a narrow sense, but also the direct policy of the classes and the government. I was going to take an example from the tax business and ask why. A candidate in the description given on the tax issues presented in section 3.4 of the proposal, where there is a somewhat blurred expression about the continuation of reforms, prospective or alleged, of the worthy tax system, and then of the income tax system. There you can expect to continue the change in the one promised in special primes, which will be submitted along with a bill for funding in the fall, as follows, by permission of the president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u106	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir A Mörður's Árnason about questions that involved tax policy. That is an excellent summary on page 22. 4 About action, and how accurately it is! A senator that in such action on the income side of the state's budget, there are many manifestations of the tax policy that every government has its own. Hv. A senator introduced the values tax system, which is our most powerful source of revenue, and is proposed to simplify that system and narrow the gap between us. I support the extent to which the valuable tax system is less likely to level in society than a income tax. At the same time, we'll see if we get to the income tax, that it's about to take a break out, so it's gonna be just two steps. I'd like to understand a lot more about what an equation effect it has on, for example, the collective labour agreements that have now been completed in the general labour market before I'm full of it; at least I don't want to go further on those materials, I want to look at the balance effect. With the insurance on the job, they're putting it down, and I'm supporting it. In view of the latest agreements, I think it even needs to be done faster.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u107	I thank the senator for the answers. It may not be quite unexpected that he supports the reductions in insurance costs to the economy, and may I say, independent active men, including individuals over 60 years of age, since then. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is here in the hall with her excellent suggestion for a down payment or relief from an insurance fee. It would be interesting to hear better from what happened. A senator's position on the value of the tax system. What is meant by making it easier and more modern? Is the senator supposed to be just one step on a merit tax, since this does not play a role in the balance system? Is it so that there should be no exceptions, such as cultural exceptions? What's the policy of the advance party in this? And what do we really need in this program?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u108	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Mörður year's Árnason referred to very good questions that are involved in an important program of income and taxes. With regard to the valuable tax system, the future vision of this government is one step. The last funds were taken to narrow down the steps because unwanted catalyses occur when steps are too far apart. It's a fine report from OECD that supports it. In terms of social objectives, it has been criticized when the credit system is being punctured. I want to look to the tax system, as we focus on social goals and the support of the third sector in all ways, and to provide a minimum, in line with what we know in other nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u109	Mr. President. I discussed this plan with the previous ones. When she appeared and will try not to repeat what I said there, but rather discuss her as she is at this stage and what has been new. I must say, though, that I, who was excited for this piece of paper, will be disappointed. I had criticized the last two years, or a year and a half, to the top. Governments should not have worked on their own planning and had good - looking documents follow financial laws or had at least the financial institutions done well, publications of the kind that came out repeatedly in the past government, independent publications that put considerable effort to make fun of the future. This is at last a proposal in accordance with the requirement of the Council for a minister to provide this in the spring council, but it is incomplete, it is not with them, and it is divided into a series of scheduled matters, it is fulfilling, e.g. not expecting in accordance with a bill that is also for the management of public finances. Anyway. Let us hope that this will gradually improve the work done in these materials into a well - formed, well - formed form. But that's the content of this strategy, which, of course, is a major disillusionment of the future view for the development of the state population in the next four years, and a much more sad way than I had hoped already a few years ago when it began to break into the economy for us in 2010/011, so you don't talk about now when economic growth has been consecutive since 2011 and prospects continue to be fairer than in our major business countries, it's a better condition in our habitat. This is a national budget, which means we're going to get into the same business for the next four years. It will be a very slight improvement in the state's farming and, in fact, will stop the recovery, and in the next four years, we will continue to do so. I'm proud of it. Isn't there more to the government than this? It doesn't seem to be. V.E.G. President. I can see that it's obvious that we in the government are meant to discuss this alone. There isn't one member of the councilroom here, not one, yes, one is here in the side hall, is aware of that, but, of course, it would have been nice to have here the highest. Financial and economic ministers and government executives on budgetary committees, economic and business committees, etc., but it's not. [[Up front.]] They do not show deep respect for this plan. Perhaps they are not particularly proud of her. I'm also going to hope that it's because they're kind of ashamed of her because she's miserable, she's too bad. It reveals a vision of the future that at least I disagree completely with, both political and economic. It gives us the vision of the future that I consider to be the ugliest unique figure in all of this and may be read from a table on page 6. 19, but, in effect, it is hidden far back in the document that speaks of the evolution of the originals and the basics of the State into the future; it needs to be on page again. Thirty-eight to find the number. This is the figure on the development of early charges without irregular joints as a proportion of land production. What is the number of initials without irregular joints? It is the actual government business with no interest in interest. It is the scope of the state's population to skip funding, don't raise interest costs, and the early income without interest. This ratio is to progressively decrease in the time of this government under its financial programme and to be reduced to 23.4% in 2019 C.E. 23.4%. This is totally unacceptable, at least to those who want Iceland to be part of the Norwegian or West European welfare states, because we can't have the situation that we spend so little money, so little proportion of the nation's income every year, really, for the most part, in the prenup. Yet, the product of irons. Of course, this is because the state's income base is simply too weak, as the government makes things happen. This is because the government has either begun or is preparing to give up income, which would be in relation to what they produced when they were present about 30 billion, so it should be added 93/411 billion or even 16 in lost income taxes now linked to the collective agreements. This is a wealth tax that produced 10.5▪11 billion during the last two years of his burial, it was a growing tax base, it was on the rise, because the wealth is growing in the richest part of the Icelanders. This number is between 5 and 6 billion, probably 6 billion at current prices due to a decrease in income tax on the middle level. It is at least 5 billion in lower fishing costs than the rise of the seabed evidently suggested that it pay. The most historic intervening I've ever seen was the Granda's three - month edition of the days with 40% produced, certainly an abnormal, hairy business that falls in at the time, but it's quite historic to see it. 40% passed out of business in the first three months of the year. There's probably 5 billion plus/minus income loss, now I can't remember the number exactly, because the government's dropping the product on one board, including the $3 billion sugar tax, drops the upper level on the top value tax by 1 percent, increases the food tax, but it doesn't make it enough, so the net ozone loss is 5 billion or 6 billion. 2 billion more by the next year, when the energy tax drops, it wants this government, and then it hasn't let a number of dollars follow the price. It hasn't moved up for fuel prices, oil expenditures, heavy taxes, and much more in the past two years, and not at all last, inflation has not been much, but the government hasn't used the power to make its way out. This means, for example, that the markets of the income stocks of Vega produce 11 billion dollars. less than if it were fully used. This is one of the billions of dollars you've lost because you haven't paid the price. Well, then I'm 30 billion, at least 29, with this simple equation. But this is the income the tax stocks were giving when they were now laid down or done, and they do not tell us what they would give with their growing national resources, which they would say more. And now to add a considerable number, 20 billion let's say, in the form of income loss and increased expenditures. So there's a pretty big gap in there. We've reached a magnitude of 50 billion. that the result in itself might be better. Of course, it's not quite that simple. Of course, collective agreements now also have a income effect, both cost-and-gravity effects. It may well be temporary if there is increasing expansion and inflation in the pipes that are feared by the person spoken of here, which is short - lived, as experience teaches us to weaken the sizable income pools and live on foamy revenues while the economy is on the updraft. Why do they go where if the economy is turning around? They go up, they disappear, and behind them the income base is weaker. As a result, the government, a prisoner of its own policy, is forced to put in place an iron - based financial program, in which the progress of the state, the survival of the State, is halted. This is reality. If there is no way to receive money now, or save expenses because the government is now putting on a government fund, his recovery will go down below the line. Is it the ambition that humans have on behalf of the government's affairs during those years? If this is to happen - and I remind you that the equation on this schedule should be as much as 11 billion in remaining in 2016 - if these expenditures amount to 20 billion or income expenditures are worth 20 billion, what does that mean? Does this mean, then, 9 billion dollars in the next year? Very rough, without taking anything else into account, it might look that way, but then income does. The treaties will increase the roll and increase the private consumption, and the state will get something more into the indirect tax. True, more pay is expected to be paid to employees too. What's it gonna do with the insurance system? Will it allow compensation to go with pay development? The account is now making a big difference. But that's how it is. It may well be that the government, to the extent that it is thinking about economic matters, realizes that it will get away with this because there is a expansion. Then the game is repeated from the school years up at the turn of the century when they fought about themselves and reduced their taxes, while the government fund had a fine supply because it was starting in the economy, which, of course, temporarily leads to a great deal of money. To a large extent, they enter the local treasure during the thawing years. But where did they go at the end of 2008? Where did they go? [[Take it to: pay off debts.]] Sadly, that was far too small of it. [[The point is, you were against it.]] It would have been necessary to run a government fund with much more leftovers. They didn't do much. What if, on June 10, the second, by 50 points and even more, by the second August because of the belief that this is a sign? Of this, it seems that most analysts agree. We're seeing a substantial investment in the commercial world, which is, of course, a pleasure to see a medium industry and industry, two, three at least, wearing the pipes, some starting, and a considerable investment and building of hotels, in an apartment building. The real estate market is already infested, e.g. Regarding office housing in the central city where the increase in real estate assessment is 25% in two consecutive years, that's no more than a bulge. There is an enormous amount of money in traffic, all too much of it, leftovers of the confusion as it tripled in the short run before collapse. The huge investment capacity of the pension fund of about 100 billion plus/minus a year accumulates in the economy behind the capital master, which could continue to be counted. We also see evidence that the product exchange equation has reached about zero. There is little left to the product exchange, and if not for the advent of the adventureful growth of tourism and the quality of the services around us, even now in the winter months, the customer's balance would not be great to cry out to. He shows obvious evidence of weakness of the sort that we are familiar with. This is true, for instance, that the Federal Bank has not let the problem get stronger, and hopefully it will not even begin to increase in interest of growth, continue the cruel purchases of currency, thus defending the level of success at some point in the area where it is. You might argue that even the weak need to be affected. So we may now be free of the problems that resulted from the growth in the years following 2002, 2003 when financial influx added to the rest as the spread of the economy, industrial investments, etc. What, though, has been happening here during the past few days, a few weeks? Yes, there is, trying to place more priming options into the new system order for more active and more major activities. They've learned nothing. Nothing. They'd love to, and maybe just want another spin, believein' they'll be very popular if they get to let the government hang together in the spring months of 2017, because this is when everyone's very happy at the party. But is that what we want, going to a new circle? What would be the most reasonable device, Madam President, if we were really worried about this? Experience has taught us that we need to ask these critical questions before it is too late to act. Not after. Yes, it would be using the government's budget with money policy, looking for the next few years to be rapidly increasing in the business of the state funds. It would also have the marvelous benefits that we could actually pay off debts that would bring honor to the government, but this government is not going to do so. It breaks down in that the proportion of public debt falls from growing national production. Yes, of course, because the land production is increasing, but we are not paying these debts to their credit. Nor are we beginning to add to the investments we had to keep back with and wait with us during the most difficult years. What provokes my greatest surprise, except, of course, the cruel right politics that appeared in the number I mentioned earlier in my speech, the laying down of the original spending to 23.4% of the gross domestic product at the end of the programme period, is the investment level. It should not be added to a single chicken. It should be kept where it is, 1.2% of GDP in government investments. There will be very little room to increase the quality of road, air, health, education, and other areas where the need is greatest. And it's not a building of a new hospital, absolutely obvious, because it's in the report. Mr. President. I also believe that this kind of plan is quite a problem because we need a good national interest foundation that looks far into the future. For example, all of this is needed as a real analysis of what we are going to face in the next 10◯25 years, although that was not more, in terms of demographic changes, about the increased need for money to care for the elderly and their related health systems, the need for nursing, human resources, drugs, and the like. Here, there's a very simple way of doing this. And 1% is expected to be real, but a little more in drugs and things related to the sector I'm doing here. Is it based on analysis? No, I can't see her. This is what needs to be done, of course. This allows solid foundations to be established under the framework plan and financial programmes for a period of time. If the new government law is to go into effect and it is to work according to individual spending practices, including health care, and they are to be expected to show the spending frames as part of such programs, on what will men build? Yes, we know that the nation is getting older, but it's happening in Iceland, even more slowly and later than in many other countries. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson, who is here in the hall, has been a bit preoccupied with this. In some cases, his case suggested that he himself and one person had discovered that the Icelandic nation was getting older and that people would have to deal with it in the form of increased needs for nursing and so forth, perhaps it is right to do sohv. þm. It was first invented by God - pleased Guðlaugur, who was then to follow through on the case. [[For example, is that not true?]] [[Up front.]] It calls for certain things. So I'd like to remind you of a proposal presented here for the council and, as a matter of fact, is now in the Economic and Business Committee to start planning long term national budgets. That's a very important assignment. Finally, of course, it is a question of not just what is to be done but of how it is divided. That's where I don't think the plan is particularly promising or something of the highest degree. Government's doing. It is telling us, that is to say to the Icelandic people: It will be less and less suggested to the combination, and the standard of living in Iceland will be less and less equal to the fact that we run a responsible welfare system financed by common taxes. That's what the government is saying in the number 23.4% for the original expenditure of 2019. That's it. The fierce right course. It is a great apostasy in former governments. If so, may I remind you of Haidendi - earning, earning, and working market that came out this morning. I don't have the time to figure it out, but here are the measurements in 2012, Giin and the Key Index for 2013, and the Giin Index for 2014 based on income and taxes in 2013, and the result is stunning. We left the country equal to what it has been. from the beginning of these tests, the Giin score. [[The president calls.]] So it succeeded and went exactly as they planned to change the tax system and other measures to balance the standard of living in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u110	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator points to the failings of this government budget and that, in fact, it would have to be better, lacking long - term thinking, and showing how we are going to deal with a problem that needs soon to be solved. He mentioned, among other things, the country's age, but we also need to make major investments that are not listed here and in this program is not outlined how to solve these major problems. Hv. A senator warns that caution is needed. I agree with that word because for the economic failures, we have to pay the public. It can be fun at the highest. A government for two, three losses, and then it comes down and it's gonna land on the public. That's what I'm saying. Senator. I'm asking why. A senator how he believes that it will be an up-to-date negotiation with government employees that in this program it is said that if money gains go beyond 2% per year out the forecasting period for state workers, the number of employees will be cut down, etc., when there has been so much cut down in the state system, pressures on employees much after a crash, and we should have gone the other way. This is also with the development of markets of GDP from the North countries, where we are not well off.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u111	Madam President. Yes, I believe that the greatest weakness lies partly in the absence of what obviously needs to be prepared and addressed to the future, changing ages, and a real need for that. I don't seem to have anything else ahead of me, but I need more money to be taken care of. There are investments in various infrastructures that we have saved, e.g. In the road system. That's not how it works. We must look for ways to make further investments within the interiors that we have delayed. This low ratio, 1.2% of GDP, is not sufficient to maintain the value of the current infrastructure, they are only actually demeaning according to the actual report of the proposal. We would also have simply had to aim for more material wealth. Imagine what the S.H.I.B. would be happy to see if the state would use increasing power and resources, thus supporting money policy on the next losses through the sea of action contracts, in decommissioning currency stores, etc., etc. The best that could happen, the state policy and the money policy would support each other, but the other would not go east and the other west, as in the time of the collapse. Then, of course, we would have to be able to leave with even a handsome deposit on future pension bonds, etc. This is very close when it comes to public employees. I'm not sure they'll read it with great pleasure, e.g. BHM men who are now in a long and difficult strike and have met a low understanding, if this is what they are invited to the future. Is this enough for them to do these things, to keep the people, our experts at home? Will we be competitive with such a vision? I really don't think so. This may not be quite realistic at the end of the day. We also know that it is right. A senator mentioned, this system has been run under great stress over the years. [[The president calls.]] It is already, under heavy pressure, people run faster, and it seems to be in the crisis, but it is, of course, getting tired of it now and wanting to see improvements in those materials. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u112	Madam President. Because of what? A senator has a lot of professional skills, I would like to ask him a practitioner about how we use this program at the council. We have to vote for it after the discussion, and already there are many numbers wrong because the decision has been made to change the more expensive tax system than put in the program and the housing plants were not evaluated yet. We already know the plan is out of order. How, then, should we vote for something we know cannot resist? I've been worried that it's suggested that we cross the 69th floor. Act on social security. In what position are members appointed to vote on whether or not they will violate social security laws with this program? [[The president calls.]] They're moving the highest. Government permission to go against the laws and ideals of those who have to rely on compensation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u113	Madam President. The problem is old-fashioned. This plan was rather late, at least to the committee, and to the Economic and Business Committee, none of which have been known, for example, to be highly respected. Is that appropriate? Even if it was enough on that committee, I think we would have accepted the idea of going over the schedule and perhaps promote some viewpoints. That's what I'm saying for me. This morning it was informed that a financial committee has not been introduced to the influence of the collective agreements and what the State has promised in the package. There is no preliminary assessment of how this will change the terms of both the government's promises directly and how the national vice presidents will change according to what appears to be their policy, at least. part of the workforce. Another such thing would have been done. I'm sorry, but I'm afraid it's just gonna have to face that if this plan is taken care of so unchanged, it's gonna have very little value. It's just as hard as it gets that it doesn't really have any value. [[The president calls.]] The next piece of paper that's going to have some kind of impact will be the expected budget in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u114	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for honesty when it comes to tax issues. I hope that as many people have followed this speech, especially the tax section at what time. Senator. It presented his clear views as a class, as well as his left, and as a social list in general, when it comes to tax issues. How exemplary it is when members of Congress are as forthright as they are. A senator was here. I'm going to keep this speech. But I wanted to ask. The senator was curious because he spoke here about how impossible this was all, how to turn down and put down taxes, and he mentioned the wealth tax, when it was already hard. A senator then the highest. The minister introduced him to the tax as temporary. He thus presented the tax to people. We know that the tax paid, not the income - dependent persons, but people who had possessions, perhaps not great assets, were their pensions, not their pensions. V.E.G. For some reason, a government did not tax pensions, but the property of these people was largely older people with low incomes. Why was he temporary? Why was it not said that he should be endless from speaking to men the way they wanted it to be? Then went the other way. A senator who spoke of the horror of going into the big business. It wasn't what it was. A senator who used his taxes and government grants, was in a tunnel that is going far out of schedule if the latest news, that was a backside, he went into a guard tunnel, to set up a major industry in his district? I want the answer to these two questions. Why was the wealth tax temporary, and why did a senator who is so opposed to the industry give such a tremendous deal to it in his own district?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u115	Mr. President. I'm surprised if there's been a reason. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - fearing man Þór Þórðarson was surprised at how I spoke of government affairs and taxes and the acquisition of the State. I thought it was no secret that we were advocates of running a powerful, responsible welfare system and financed it with mutual taxes. [[Up front.]] We've been trying to adjust these proportions of what's going on and is happening somewhere else in the North and not in North America or anywhere else. I think I've lived up to it completely in speech and literature, as well as in action, that we mean what we say in that regard. Or what? That's what I'm talking about. A senator did not agree that we have shown this in action during the last terms?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u116	Come in...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u117	It should be noted, though, that they did things because they had to, and it had to be done for Iceland, that had to be prevented from losing a government fund. The answer to the question: Why was the wealth tax temporary? is that he was taken away temporarily, as did many other provisions. A great many of the measures that we took in 2009 were set up to begin with some year. But in the spring of 2009 and in the issues of 2011 and 2012, what did the State budget say? It was always there that if any of these income levels disappeared, it would have to be replaced by a failure to reach their financial goals. It was quite clear, for example, that if people wanted to lower or even cut down money according to our plans, they had to replace it. We always realized that the plan was what was involved in income and cost on both sides, but then there's a government that lowers taxes without pointing out in any way what's to replace it. Is she gonna cut back? Or where will she earn, for example, what she is now promising in her bargains? [[Answer the question.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u118	Come on, come on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u119	In terms of the industry, of course, we were in favor of it and have been that industrial development in the country would be consistent with our environmental goals could begin. [[The president calls.]] This was, more fortunately, in our time, the small and medium - sized benefits that were superior to the mergeric policy of macro-sounding organisms that I know to be goods and cheers back then. Senator. Its data and mediumsized silica are quite different from that of his aluminum dreams.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u120	A respectable president. I won't take it seriously if I have a problem. A senator can be only personal when he is in charge. It all works out on the person of the members of that council. It is very difficult for him to be material. [[Up front.]] It's just like whisk. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is. Let's go over this a little bit, huh? A senator here speaks of a small industry. It was taken out into a Kingdom - responsibilities Vellah tunnel, it was taken into tunnels that are not for the public but only for the industry, it was to cost 1.8 billion, but was so poorly prepared that it cost 3.1 billion. In this regard, a special agreement was also made, and then the man comes and talks as if he were opposed to the big business. The man took her for granted, huh? Senator. And what? A senator came and said to the people who were supposed to pay the wealth tax: This is temporary. [[Up front.]] I, however, note that when the tax went off, the pension commitments were released, the pensions, the most valuable property the people have. [[The president calls.]] Those who owned a lot of pensions escaped, not those who were not allowed to live in a pension fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u121	Mr. President. In case of a moment. A senator believes that in addition to the taxation of a pension when he comes for a fairly handsome payment, he should also place some kind of property tax on pension money, that is an interesting idea. But you're right, we didn't go that far. The wealth tax, known as a phenomenon, has been in the process again. Men have had difficulty getting him on, but both east and west have made experiments in that direction, both Obama and Hollande, or they have intended to try to establish some kind of wealth tax. Norwegians with the lowest Gii score in the world place place the exact amount taxation, formue tax, and have done. He is still at the right hand of his people because it is likely that all of the richest parts of the Norwegian nation contribute specifically. [[Just step forward, except what.]] And unless what? Regarding the industry, I was discussing my count of enough pipes, and I didn't need to squeeze in by hand in a frame plan more priming options to add to that. [[The president calls.]] That's what I was talking about. That's what caused this eruption at the moment. paritaprevir Guðlaugur, the son of Þór, continued to be Þórðarson - given. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u122	Madam President. What is very useful in a national financial program, as we are concerned, is the very fact that it accurately reflects the policy of a seated government. It is very easy to compare it with other categories of government, opposition. What is most serious in this matter is the fact. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon pointed out that this is largely expected to reduce the share of national income. My question to why. Who does he consider to be the result? Other than that, I have to say that I'm not as pessimistic as many of those who speak here on the side of the government stand about whether this plan would be going to pass or not. I believe that the government environment that was previously in power can, in a sense, be proud of this financial plan because it is quite clear that it rests largely on the foundation laid by a former government. The question was very clear. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, who traced various fields of income that the present government has determined to deliver. It will be easy for the next government, in which neither existing member of the board is going to fit, to retake some of them. As a result, the interests of the Kingdom will be greatly improved. Other than that, while numbers are inaccurate in this document, as has been shown here by two former financiers, I believe that the government is a seal, and then I intend to emphasize that it is very likely that it will remove the debt that lies ahead of us will result in a huge income to the state that can be used to pay off debt. It will, along with the ways we have the market and will regroup to make it possible for the future government to lower taxes, take a little better into the interior, and increase the percentage we've been passing through here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u123	Madam President. Moving this low on the primary fee is no prescription for anything other than bringing together the welfare system or the combination, as we call it, and at times when Iceland needs to prepare for the opposite, to cope with the change of ages, and to start investing in what it takes. We're going to have to face the government's future pension ties, etc. It would be much better to do so before the age combination changes too much because it is less crooked. There are proportionately more people at the labour market who pay taxes to the elderly and then gradually change these proportions in Iceland, since about 10% is the retirement age today to reach 25% in no very long time. So fast this will happen, and though the trend here is slower than in most other places, at least this is so long as your birth rate is high. True, the government builds on a good foundation what was done. That's why she's been so comfortable that she can beat herself with some taxation. As a result of our economic recovery, it has not been put to the fore that the state's funds go straight in because, of course, all of us benefit because there are increasing events year after year. The interest is returning more. It does not say how much better the situation could be if they had left these income companies alone. It will be all right for the next government to come so just to do what is necessary, including possibly raising taxes if necessary. It's not my experience that it's usually quite easy. You see, there is a bit of tax, like the hell of ancient Humvee, a lot of men who can come and roll it down, but they are not as many people that bring it up. It's impossible to go through a drop in taxes in the economic system and then expect someone else to deal with the consequences later. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u124	It's nice to play with numbers and think out loud. There are three major projects ahead of us in the New World Translation. Shorter time is the building of a new hospital. In the long run, it is dealing with altered ages with large investments in households, e.g. nursing homes for the elderly and the services they require. Then we have to pay a great deal of attention to the pension system in order to meet the future commitments. What I'm thinking about is this: If it succeeds on the basis of the actions taken by the previous government against the demands of the state's debt to be reduced by 4,400,500 billion, if a new government goes into maybe half of the measures it took to increase the income of the state during the last election period, and a man adds it to a planned supply of state funds over the next ten years, men may see in the front of it that they may be able to reduce the debt of the state by 1 perhaps you. One billion over the next 103/412 years. [[The president calls.]] This means more space because of the less interest costs of state funds that go far by paying the cost of these projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u125	Madam President. Let's just wait and see if there's 4,400,500 billion coming to us, and we can just jump it over to pay off the State debt. First, let us wait to see if this is going to happen, and secondly, if such money suddenly goes on a trip in the system, it is not quite a simple matter. [[Take it up in one of these days.]] [[Up front.]] A great many economists would expect to suggest that they would simply be destroyed, that the amount of money in traffic would be greatly combined, in any case, that none of this would be driving in the growing economy. Here is a practical problem that needs to be considered. Other than that, I agree completely with the three major tasks. A senator mentioned, he spoke of the hospital, the changed ages, and the pension system. True, we are fortunate enough to have a fund - collection system, and we were able to protect ourselves against entering that system and becoming part of the future incomes of the pension fund. True, the present government has made part of its special savings, but the good thing about the collection system is that countries and rural groups are at the same time getting more income, and the payments are getting bigger because they are calling in and paying taxes. [[The president calls.]] This will help us to cope with the changes in our country's ages.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u126	Madam President. We'll talk about a national budget for 2016's 202019. This has been given to two committee views, one of the majority of them having a soft hands over the matter and the very well - known members of my section of the legal committee, which I particularly thank you for. First, I'd like to say that it's a pleasure to say that there is finally a pact to be met by a financial program, and thanks to it. However, I make the notes, like the other part, that more detailed statements on the frame need to be made. It is very difficult to see how to divide money into different fields, and yet I'm not asking much, I'm talking about us trying to figure out how to strengthen, for example, the educational and health systems, and how to regret that there was not a new authority in the Congress Act, which says that a financial committee can search the comments of other committees on the unique issues of the proposals she decides at the time and puts every time to pay for the reviews of the committees, as stated in the 25th chapter. Parliamentary law. Now it is that we on welfare committees were not given this recommendation, which is a bit harsh because we have more than 50% of the government's expenses on our fields, except for the interest of the state fund. There are 260 billion people in the area of the welfare committee, and we would have liked to discuss this plan very much. However, when I read the plan, I may be able to understand that a financial committee has not trusted to make that decision, for it is very difficult to read from its head about individual lawsuits. All we could have done would have been asking a very detailed question to the money committee, but it would have been important for us to have the opportunity to do so. Big, high-priced mercenaries come under us, e.g. Social Security and Health. Then we have housing, the subjects of the disabled, the subjects of the elderly, the subjects of the children, and so on. There's some very large cashiers out there. If we start with the social security, it is surprising that with this government budget approved, the greater part of the Council would be making a political decision to increase an inequities in Icelandic society. Why do I say that? Yes, because this is a suggestion that there will be no more money gain than 2% in public employees. In pensional patients, i.e. People who are in the social security system, however, are supposed to be 1%. It has also been shown in the highest answers. Secretary of finance that it is not reasonable for him to believe that the same raises are going to the pensioners and hired persons, especially to the underpayers who increase most. Naturally, the organization of bio-employers, such as the National Association of older citizens and older citizens, has strongly objected to this, since it is unjust and cannot stand as a political vision that it is the policy of increasing inequities. How sad that we are discussing this when we learn that with tireless work during the last term, we have been able to improve the equation! The economist had not been measured as well as in 2014, and let us remember that the equation is, of course, based on the 2013 income, a year when the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir laid the foundation for the 2013 budget so that the equation is the political heritage of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, which is now slowly breaking apart. Tax tax changes in 2014 and 2015 are not included in Economics numbers. If this national budget is adopted, the inequities the government has contributed to 2014 and 2015 will increase further and that is serious. It is an equal political goal because it is a just arrangement; it is better for all of us, not just the less money, but good for the whole community. It promotes greater social cohesion, better health, better opportunities, and less crime - related society, which is safer and more free. I am very warning that this resolution will remain the same. On the contrary, it is the promise of a special advance party that was going to correct all the failings that had been performed in pensioners of the former government. [[Up front.]] In fact, the only change this government has made in terms of basic pension, and that was fine, while other changes in decline rates are changes made by the previous government in 2014. The decisions had already been made for the present government, but there are a number of impairments that have not been corrected and that are now to be tailored to this group, which is at least 40 of you. ... aman. This is no small group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u127	...the damages...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u128	When we reach our accommodations, there have been wonderful promises to change support systems as to both stocks and housing repairs. The changes in the last election have been laid down, but it has taken two years to make the issues clear, and two of them have not yet seen the day, and there are prime products that are, of course, the meaning of greater financial expenses. They are now offered, and they are even to be approved during the summer, and they are to be accepted at the start of the next year, but we will see them. I find it difficult to see what is being added, it does not show up, and it suggests that even if a collective agreement is not practical, and although it does not have this strategy directly involved, it would be nice to remember that at the end of the year, one of the counters would be to increase the increase in food taxes to raise rent payments by 400 million. K. In response to a verbal request, the social and housing minister answered me the other day that these 400 million had not been installed into the system and hoped she could use that money into a new system, but it will not be until next year. I encouraged the minister to make the changes immediately and to make use of these funds, since the tenants entitled to rent-implement are in great need of their improvement. This was to be a special counterweight operation for a group who did not have a decrease but took on a high level of increase in food tax. I'm very worried about the health issues. Here are the current serious strikes of large groups of women who have kept society going from collapse, and now they insist on getting up to one another. The health system has been under way for over a decade of surgery, not just collapse, since 2002, as patients have increased because of the population's increasing age, which means that fewer people have worked less in poor health. The pay force is very large, which has meant that in surgery it has taken the edge off, since it is very difficult to reduce the number of patients. It is desirable with various policies, we can with increasing emphasis on patient health, but with increasing age the burden on the health system is, of course, increasing. The pressure has increased, and the rates are getting worse, and they have to come in there, and that must be clear for everyone. It is good to remember that Capacent Gallup polled for Porita's Congress, showing that in about 90% of the country, the priorities of tax money should be the health issue. This is unique to the voters of all categories in all terms, in all age groups, in all income groups, and in both genders. Iceland and I don't agree with the fact that we want to put taxes into our medical system. It has been said that there is going to be some 2.5 billion who are going to be able to expand their resources into administrative and surveillance agencies, law enforcement and safety agencies, and health institutions. I don't know. I hope it's out there, but these 2.5 billion that seem to be meant to advance public service are like a drop in the ocean. There has to be a considerable increase in money into the pack, and in the list of 2.5 billion, education systems are nowhere to be seen. There's also some money to be made. Much of both education and health - care systems did not have good wounds in particular, and they took their share in cutbacks, with so much of the expenses involved that they could not be spared. That means when things get better, we'll have to put money back into these lawsuits. But here we get it in black, that it's not the plan of this government. They are not ashamed to tell us how they have decided to reduce the level of government funds, and here I would like to say that, of course, our goal must be that taxation is moderate and chemical. Emphasis on the tax system as a means of efficient amassing funds for a government fund as well as to settle the terms of a political objective we are not ashamed of. We don't pay taxes just to pay taxes. We put on taxes, among other things, to finance our health and education and the social security system, a system that most of us agree that needs to finance our living here in a good society. Then, when paying taxes, we need to consider whom we are paying taxes. In line with the fact that the nation should benefit from their resources, we raise hunting costs. I believe that this year I could be about 6 billion, according to the end of the previous government. When it comes to the loss of the wealth tax, it was 10.7 billion each year's income. When it comes to decommissioning due to the delinquency of the common product, it accounts for 6.4 billion dollars. every year. The union agrees to cancel the fees, but we didn't like the timing. Then there was a energy tax, 2.2 billion, that fell best on the industry. Then there's a special character discount that people use to pay off their loans, that's 5.7 billion, and that's a decision that more part wanted to make, but when we count it all together, it's tens of billions of dollars a year from what they're doing, the richest Icelanders and the most successful companies. Of course, all of us want to make most of the money, but when people over the average income are allowed to decide that their taxes are dropped or that the funds are used to promote health and education, no one wants to see the health system decay. We all know that we have money to make money from the resources, and those most of our assets in society must at a time that these have to contribute more. This is simply the case, and it is righteous. There's nothing unfair about it, because a lot of people in Iceland, big people, are willing to pay these taxes because people want to live in a community where everyone has access to health care and education regardless of the economy. No matter how much money we make or how much money we have, it is good for all of us. This financial program says: There should not be an increase in the amount of money available to the health system. However, this must be done, and it must also reduce the expense of patients. Patients are now paying from their own pockets more than 30 billion a year for health care and medicine. We've got to lower this share, as well as we have to put more money into the system, so we're gonna have to raise a cliff to restore the health system, I'm going to tell you. I think it's very serious that you don't see a place in this program. I will only be content to discuss the welfare issues here, Madam President, for this is near to me as the head of the welfare committee, but the little that can be read from this conclusion is not a bright future for the well - being of Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u129	A respectable president. It was a rather remarkable speech, and in many respects very important, for it was about the future government, which was the most memorable power in 2013 elections, did not provide enough money to build up what the last government went down. This was a long - term statement that the health system was about to collapse. We know that well. It was up to this government when it began because the last government went exactly into the health system and broke it from the inside. It was also said that there were no quick efforts to improve the interests of older citizens and disability. In fact, the last government broke into the basic benefits of old - age pensioners, no government had done before and affected these two groups by 16 billion during one term. Well done, right? To that end, members of the former administration party have to respond, senators of the Left Green and the Continental. This government has almost completely improved it, my social minister tells me. Then it's time to bring that information out so that it can be separated once and for all. New 12 billion people have been put in the Land Hospital, and much new money has been put into medical institutions in the country, so I don't understand the procedure. It is as it is, these classes are still in pain because they have been elected away, as shown in this talk. I'd like to ask the senator what she studied at the beginning of her speech, that the welfare committee did not discuss this council decree. Can the senator imagine turning all the committees of the council into financial committees?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u130	Madam President. I'm going to answer the question first. No, I don't see it, but I can see that it's normal to take advantage of a legal warrant to request the opinion of professional committees, especially the professional committee with half the government fees in their litigation categories, except for the interest fees. As for the senator's speech on memorable elections, it is so memorable that the current body of Congress has 60% voter but received less than 50% votes for voters. It is the memorable thing at that vote. I made it clear in my speech that the medical system has been under the cut-off knife for a long time, attributing it to the government of Independence Party and Front Class if she wants to go to one of these reviews. It's practically the 21st century. In that century as well as in the first century, there have been far too long independent and forward groups of people. In the case of the social security, 2008 and 2009 were greatly added to the systems relating to removal of sexual connections that were made long after the collapse of the microchip. Of course, it was Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir who put it through, and it had been introduced a minimum insurance policy. A huge amount of money had been placed on social security that did not change that, of course, when it had to be cut down was very difficult. We had begun to improve into a number of systems, including the health system, and, of course, we would have used the income that our actions have made, not to reduce taxes on farms and major property people, but to return to these systems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u131	A respectable president. What an amazing statement! First we were bad, and then we were going to be good if we'd got a vote back. However, it was just so that the voters rejected this so - called left welfare government in the last general election, so these are facts that these two categories cannot run away and everyone knows about. Only one thing was missing in the senator's speech, and that is the sentence that was used throughout the last term: There was a collapse. This does not help these groups now because, as I went on to do so, it was attacked by the most sensitive groups of paintings, which brought financial support while the government was pumping money on a pet project. I mention at the top of the sheet the application to the European Union. I can also talk about the efforts of the left government to change the constitution of an expensive elephant, even ending with the Supreme Court, so the emphasis was never clear in the basic service of the former government, as is the one present. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u132	V.E.G. President. I didn't quite understand the question, but I can say what. A senator that, of course, was very dull to me the way the United States was going wrong in elections, on which I shall not hide, but what I would do here has nothing to do but a political vision of equals. It won't change between elections. The equal vision has solid stability. For the fact that we have broken down and kept ourselves safe from the collapse - the entire last terms in terms of a tremendous struggle to save a government fund from bankruptcy after the long-term reigns of the forward - upsurgent party and the independent party. They had to enter a variety of systems because the educational and welfare systems account for 70% of the government's expenses. [[The president calls.]] There will not be a cutoff of 200 billion without entering that system, and it is unfortunate that the chairman of the legal committee does not understand it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u133	President. This is an informative debate here today about the budget for a newly arrived member of the council, but the relationship is still breaking when there is an interval as long as this, and it is drawn up to that man and expected to audience here, and the viewers gradually picture others of the future plans of the government, which are not obvious in the plan. The greatest part of the plan may be what is not in it. Hv. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir gave a good picture of this. It points out, in fact, as represented by the minority of the Committee of the Committee of the Committee, that in this program only 1% increase the cost of pensioners is expected when a 2% increase in salary gain is expected. The government itself is weighing who are worthy of a raise and who are not. This is also interesting in this very relationship, as listed on page 35, and it has been shown here that if these 2% raise are nearly expected in the schedule to be done - what? Then cut. It should then be met, with the permission of the president, with an appropriate tool to reduce pay costs such as contracting to staff or working levels and such as ◯. Third, it is expressed as a dog. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon pointed out that the counterside side is to go down. That's my question. Senator: Who are those who lose out on this? Is it really possible, if I say it soon, to lower the lowest? [[The president calls.]] Is it not the number of intermediate groups that are primarily affected by the damage presented here in the program?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u134	Mr. President. This strategy is so rough that there are major sizes, not economic divisions. Those who make money, that's obvious, are the highest earners, most of them own their assets, and have been given a special license to use the resources. Those who get the hardest out of the house, I'd say they're pensioners, patients and tenants. It is the group that this government seems to highly believe to be able to produce her vision of low taxes and semi-employable educational and health systems. In the middle - line groups, there are a number of tax reductions, which can be said to be the best available to those with the highest income. Let's hope the middle-of-the-art groups get a cut. If this strike is completed, the expenses of this person's education, health care, or housing are not to be reduced if they are rented. [[The president calls.]] I have to continue my second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u135	President. It is true, of course, that the suggestion of who is going to get the worst out of it cannot be realized. What you imagine, though, is that these groups are the basis for what you think. A senator mentioned the situation that they are now cannot be worse than it is. In fact, the quality of our ministry cannot be minimized more than it already is already in these most critical groups. In the communities this strategy draws Iceland down to have over the last 10 to520 years, the intermediate groups, the intermediate groups requiring the strong welfare system, are divided. Young people, people who have to rely on a range of incomes and support, have fallen from control, and these are the people who are now in political uncertainty and are on Internet lines for various salmintians and firopolis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u136	President. Thank you. A senator resists. The Senator says: The welfare services cannot be hampered any more. That is what the senator says. As an officer, I say, "No, I agree, it's not possible, and it has to be added." If we look past the vision of the superiors and the policy of an equal to welfare society, then, of course, the welfare services can be reduced if that is the way people see it. It is the political vision shown in this document and the one that bites the middlers and low - incomeers. In an effort to mislead people, the economy is always the means to make more taxes because they make so much money. We know how it ends. [[The president calls.]] It's going to end very badly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u137	Madam President. I think this may be summed up in a way that states that in general this plan is not good for a responsible welfare system in some Norwegian spirit. Why would she do so when these two groups take control of the land? Is that surprising? What is the message? Yes, the tax system is to be ejected and to reduce its balance levels. It's declared right here. They are to weaken the stable, stable income companies of the state. This is being done, perhaps remembering to live temporarily on foampots now if it goes hand in hand. It can succeed, but it is still weakening the stable, stable, income farms that do not disappear when the economy changes. If we try to approach it this way, which is often useful in discussions about economic matters, looking through the swing and viewing the foundation, through fluctuations up and down, it is being weakened. It is targeted to reduce the share of gross domestic production by 1% at this time. To be honest, the wording is very good. On page 18. Thirty - eight are said to have moderate actual interest in the basics of the state's budget, about 0.4 to1.6% per year. But it is said that the real growth of the expense gate will be slower than the actual growth of GDP. In other words, this is not to be shared fully in economic growth for the next four years, thus reducing the proportion. I must ask you why. A senator who is chairman of the welfare committee according to what was specifically discussed here: How should this work out at the same time that the nation's age combination is changing? We have seen, in effect, all around us that the ratio increases to deal with it even if the right controls are in power. [[The president calls.]] Only the medical expenditures alone have been rising by 1◯2% of GDP in most of the OECD over the last 10 to 15 years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u138	Madam President. Of course, this is not going to work, and it is also in fierce opposition to what was announced in the wake of a medical strike that would create the circumstances in which health care and the number of staff would be spent in the same way as in the demographic situation in the North countries. This financial program makes that statement meaningless. I entered at the end of my talk that this plan does not give a bright time for the welfare system, but it is the policy of continuing some kind of uncertainty for these systems, and then no doubt it will pay the way to personalization so that some friends of the classes can make money in this service without increasing money or improvement. People want provisions so that they can live a decent life, take vacations, enjoy them, and live a meaningful life. Still, people are willing to pay their taxes if, for example, they try to reduce the cost of high school, book costs in high school, health care for their children because we want these things to work out. [[The president calls.]] Everyone knows but the government squads.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u139	Madam President. I've been trying to understand, too, more clearly what this is all about. I pause whether this 1% continued to be the maintenance goal for the next four years, if I read it correctly, e.g. on page 24. 36, that's realistic. We will continue to reduce expenses by 1% annually, e.g. to various business ventures, to the top of everything that has happened? I think it's gonna work. Let's just take the Ministry itself that got this kick-off, this revenge action against the budget between discussions. [[Up front.]] Is it exciting for them to think about making another 1% for the next four years? True, it's 4 billion in a pot to meet something that's uncool and some other people are divorced, but I think it's difficult. Of course, the big picture, the overall consumption, the activity of the public, which is much lower here than anywhere else. [[The president calls.]] It's crystalting in my health matters because it's basically telling us that Iceland can be in something completely different from any other country under comparable circumstances over the next few years. It's not going to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u140	V.E.G. President. Iceland has long been leading a health policy. There is now a serious medical facility, nothing in this document is causing a change, and it is very serious. There has been a call from OECD, in effect, to the states to try to increase the equation, including the tax system. The government doesn't want to hear it. I agree with that. For example, we look to Sweden for examples in terms of the money. It recommends the annual maintenance, the maintenance of expenses as always as possible. This cannot be done for the next few years because we are coming out of such a difficult and long - term cutoff period that it must be held out only in single categories of languages some years into the future while we get the public service and administration back on track. [[The president calls.]] Then you can have a maintenance goal there, but there are several years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u141	Madam President. We'll talk about a national budget for the next four years. There have been some informative discussions on these issues that are relevant to the future of the great country, i.e. how we see in advance about the state of the world. Get in there, huh? paritaprevir In this discussion, the Hauksdóttir in this discussion is very special, how she feels about government affairs during the past few years, that it was the meaning of former governments, specifically breaking down the welfare system for fun and attacking those less fortunate. This kind of presentation is indistinguishable. It doesn't hold any conclusions. All intelligent people know better. Although some find it hard to learn that this has occurred in 2008, it is only the reality that was happening, and we are still dealing with the consequences of it, and we need to continue to do so. As this frame is built up, I have to say, like others who have come into this discussion that you are really worried about how this community will develop over the next four years, considering how fast it is actually cutting down what we want to see in the structure of society. We know that health, transportation, education, and other areas in which the sails have had to be put together. We also need to look for ways that we as a nation compete with other nations for their inhabitants. It has become so that young people who are thinking about their future and where they want to live in the future also think beyond the rocks, think of how Iceland will develop, and how this will be built up, to raise children, and how things will be done. These young people have come to many parts of the North. I wonder why it is. Do you think it's just someone who's sick and that there's more sun in it than there is here? No, I don't think, it's something else too. They find safety in so many areas that society offers. When problems arise, there is a safety net, support for young people to cover their heads, and education, they also need to be able to trust that they do not really care whether they come from a less wealthy family or when they are wealthy. They can be confident that this will not stop them from learning. That's the way you keep counting. This government is hacking into all the information I've mentioned here. In just the last two years, people have been confident that both the education system and the health system will be weakened, so there is much insecurity. The budget continues, and the transport sector is upset because the transport programme that has been put forward here does not fit into the coats of this budget. How should a national budget or a transport plan be credible if funds are not laid down in such projects? Somehow, this will undermine the credibility of this government budget. What comes out of the collective agreements now available is not expected. Classes within BHM and the social community of nurses face a severe fallout, and it is expected that only a 2% increase in money gain will be expected for the next four years. It is quite unrealistic to believe that these classes will accept so little money gain over the next few years. It tells itself that humans are not earth - bound, but they are something far from reality. Sadly, the fundamental principles that determine where people take root, want to live, and build their homes are very uncertain. People are concerned about their own interests. This government has been proud of it because it lowers taxes, as if the common people were paid forever for that propaganda. Just as we were about to tell a business in our own home, we were going to stop getting a few incomes to cover expenses. It is similar with the idea that we were going to cut down our income in the household business and that we didn't have to cut expenses back. Of course, to live up to the welfare system that we want to build up here and talk about, the entire nation's budget needs to be paid. Of course, those listed today have tented because they want to protect the welfare system, but when it comes to it, they will not rise up to the sign of doing so. They combine their consumption and try to involve the health and education systems in various fields, thus achieving income and simply cutting down and drawing together. This is something that we have to push around and call attention to the fact that this will only result in the same thing, that our community will become much weaker, and we'll get bigger when it comes to the fact that people have given up so much money and cut so much down on the public in the country and on all the interiors of this community. I call attention to what is presented in the State budget on page 18. 3: The State budget is based on the continuation of the government investment rate of domestic product, which is 1.2% budgeted for 2015. This means that there will be any scope to implementing a regular and profitable project, both because new projects replace certain projects that will be completed during the period and because investment contributions will be increased to keep up with the growth of domestic product. This is going on here, but there's no new development. Although some claim that this was not done, it was carried out on many new projects during the last term. It was attacked on major projects, such as the Norwegian tunnel and investments of 3.5 billion on the West Coast Road 60, land island crew, and other investments, mentioned and tried to speak down. What I think is a major concern is the dramatic change that has occurred since the previous government, that it is being crushed under those who are wealthy and relieved of their taxes. It's getting a lot of money, so billions of dollars are spent in fishing because of the largest profit that has paid these largest fish markets. They should really be able to contribute more to our community, and it is moving on to the income tax system, which is the equalizing tool we have and the best good thing we can do in trying to equalize the average population in our country. The government's entrance to these collective contracts is to stir the income tax and intend to reduce the paces to two. This will not benefit well those with less income. You could make changes in the tax system by latering, lowering the bottom step, lifting the middle step, and making some adjustments in the materials that would benefit less than the average wage and the intermediate income much better. But people are always expected to pay taxes directly to the public in the country. The next time he has to pick up a medical service, has to send his children to school, or is driving through a highway, he sees that there is a great lack of Jón Jónsson to keep these factors in order. Then Jónsson probably has to pay a cut to get a few strings forward, he has to pay a high amount of credit for his child's schooling and pay special medical care, return costs, and anything he can do when he or she has to get medical care. No North American welfare system looks like that, and this government should jump in these matters if she is going to live up to Iceland as one of those Norwegian welfare communities that Iceland wants to belong to. Sadly, the decrees of various groups, such as the forward party and the Independence Party before election, have been drawn up from a distorted picture in these materials and have not linked to what is done to taxes and how they use the public in the country. Then, like the advance party, groups carry out enormous sums of money in promises to reduce the debt of apartment owners. It ended to 80 billion but was some more than 300 billion at the outset and was to be taken from vulture funds but then taken from the common fund of all the people of the country, some 80 billion. This money is consigned to society like a fool's sugar, which is of no use to the people who really need it, but it lands on the tables of those who can totally make their home and have full potential and potential for it. This isn't good for public money. There would be a number of things to do with these 80 billion, such as adding the ideal of older people and the desperate ones that I think the present government will completely ignore, that it should be linked to the social security system to take some consideration of the country's salary development. It is a disgrace to this government not to raise the interests of those who live in the most difficult terms and certainly have had to take on the burdens we know, just as all the inhabitants of the crash have. Yet, it can be said that during the last terms when a person took on a heavy load, there was nothing else, a guard for the lowest wage, both the elderly and the desperate. There was a protective line placed in incomes about 2103/4:220. But that was, and it was higher than many who were at work and then had less monthly income than that. You can't say like a dog. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir said that something special had been attacked by this group. Of course, his interests also went bad in this crash, which caused everything to go right here. We know that it was not the government who took up the thankless task of cleaning something up and extending the economy of the land after the collapse. Hence, it is a pleasure to see that it began a continuous economy in 2010. He wasn't invented by reason of reason. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. In 2013 the government's last budget was restored to its state's balance. Based on the conclusion of the last election, you would have wanted the current government to try to maintain the results achieved during the last term, to continue to be seen from different policies to build up on that foundation, not to yield to tens of billions of dollars, and to build up for the richest in society at the expense of those less fortunate. That's what's been going on, and it looks like it's going to be the continuation, the complete indifference to government discipline, and there's some clear policy that's going to fall into other policies, such as how we're going to accept assignments that are waiting in the health system. The country is growing old, and we want to care well for the elderly and those in need of health care, for we want to care well for our education system because the future holds that we can invite our young people and people of all ages to be able to educate and re-educate, no matter where they live. It is important in such countries as Iceland, how transport infrastructure is built up, since the largest industry has become a tourism industry that is primarily based on the nature of the country and how it can be achieved far and wide across the country to enjoy it. Then, of course, we need to keep these infrastructures in order, how travel sites are prepared, and what transport is like. This is of utmost importance, and we need to earn and adjust our income so everyone will enjoy it, not just some of us, as it seems to be the course of this government. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u142	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for the speech. It was widespread, and I found it very interesting and important in real life to draw in the link between taxes and spending, i.e. Service, what you get for the taxes. I've missed it for years when people are discussing taxes, e.g. in the North, people ask what we get for what we're paying instead of asking how we can lower the tax. What I wanted to ask you. A senator is the very subject of education because she mentioned it in her talk, and we are a prime example in which high school has been carefully discussed, including. in the river of the sheep, and in the place of Tahveth. At the same time as higher levels, the teacher's salary and men are acquiescing because higher rates for students raise the overall budget very little and nothing, i.e. The school is not expected to be able to run. [[The president calls.]] It is expected that they will need to undergo surgery, both the number of students, and even prevent an increase. I'd like to hear a thought. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u143	Madam President. How these schools should run is a major concern. They are, in effect, unable to study more students whom they wanted to do in accordance with the 25 - year rule to set, that if they are 25 years old, they cannot go to book study. It has been observed at the North University of West, in the Red Sea, that school simply does not have a chance to run. It's just seen that the sails are to be drawn together and that the government's paying less money. This follows their tails, making schools and, of course, other schools that are in the same situation not able to live up to their assigned role. There is also talk of unity following this, which is also some opioid at the highest level. Minister. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u144	V.E.G. President. I would like to discuss what was presented when a work programme report was presented on the job prospects. The two men looked, three years into the future, and the increase in employment markets is remarkable only for tourism. 96% of those who entered the labour market last year were for travel services. What was most interesting in those numbers was that there is an increase in Icelanders, i.e. The people who live in Iceland, a reduction in Icelandic citizens. There are about 790 declines, i.e. More Icelandic citizens left the country than moved in, if I recall those figures correctly. Hv. A senator mentioned the situation of the job in his talk and that we are competing with the northern countries. I'd like to pray. A senator is following this a little more closely because I share concerns. A senator when we are considering that we are still losing people from the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u145	Madam President. Of course, travel is very fast, and we need to educate people as well as in that article. Then we need to arrange for people in Iceland to have a chance to learn in the article and to have access to education easily. Of course, when we are building a number of schools across the country, smaller schools that have pursued this education on the road and in various ways, we weaken the possibility that people will be educated here and look forward to going to the North countries where they will experience a much stronger support system in these areas. This is a major concern that may be difficult to return if it continues to look. Unemployment has indeed been reduced, but we also need to make sure that there are well - paying jobs here and that they can be educated in their jobs here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u146	Madam President. Economic solution is entitled section 2.2, which begins on page 5. 10. It speaks of emissions from seaga, employment market, production, and then housing markets. What I think is a little missing in this document on the release of the seams, there's a little nothing about that operation, and we haven't seen the bill yet, we've heard something about what it looks like, but how it works is one of the main factors that include the Scrollman talking about stability with the ravine. His goal is to maintain prices in Iceland. Yet there's very little on the matter here, and the text says: ▪ Governments work all years to release capital sanctimoniously. It says "work," but isn't it "roa" all the time? And then in one place, it's not a capitalist, it's a currency head. V.E.G. The Minister of Bjarni Benediktsson always speaks of these as not a currency chief but as a capitalist, rightly. I think this text is a little loose and unmoved. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the senator for some kind of presence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u147	Madam President. This is one of the biggest projects that the present government and, in fact, the Allied Council is like, not just the government, but just us as a legislature, tackle, capital crisis. There may be a great threat to the country's ideals if they don't get along well, to go away, and to all that comes with them. The labour market partners have been fearful when they have completed the contracts, such as the general market that ended these contracts during the days, about the consequences of capital waste disposal into those agreements. It is such a big variable that it is not put down in any way except in simple words that actually say nothing. There would have been a great increase in the number of warnings and warnings that would have been needed to strengthen the four - year program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u148	Madam President. That's right. The person who makes this policy has to take out a number of risk-expecting factors, as is here a list of pages on this page. 24th The oceans themselves are not very much addressed. That's the big thing, and that there's very little in there means that we have a policy plan, but very little discussed about one of the main factors in the transformation of these policies. I don't like this kind of policy plan. There are a number of uncertaintys, first uncertainty as to whether a collective labour market collective agreement is compatible with prices of prices and products and a relationship with collective labour agreements. This is one of the main indiscretions of economic possibilities and such policies. This remains in spite of the fact that for two years the labour market and the government were planning to work on policy induction of the Norwegian labour market models. Now it's time to get involved. I don't think this is a good policy job.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u149	Madam President. If we were somewhere similar to the northern countries that we often compare with us, perhaps we could talk about our wanting to go in the same direction as that of a collective agreement. However, we are not there, and there are so many classes to pass. Sadly, the situation and reality are like that. It has to. No wonder, then, that the need for correction in groups, low - paying classes and middle - class classes as well as the various professions, large groups of women, such as those in BHM and societal nurses, to want to have the curve corrected by one another because there is so much conflict in society. We can maintain a community that allows these classes to be paid for according to their employment and the responsibilities involved in their work. We're far behind the North countries, but when we get to the same place, I'd like to see how you can work this together on economic policy and on the development of pay and on this sad situation together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u150	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for a fine speech. I'd like to ask her, though it's hard to read it out of this, if she could see that we, the lesser part, have expressed a lot of concern over the status of high school in the country, many of which have suffered from the beating of the 25 - year rule. Then there are two basic national interest issues in transport, one on the other hand, road transport and information transport, a proper high-speed network connection. Does the senator see that this program of offering increased emphasis on these tribunals or should continue to be used in these important areas of the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u151	Madam President. Regarding high - speed connections, construction of infrastructure and transport in the country, as well as in the air, I am not optimistic about the fact that in the next four years, many of the urgent projects will be carried out. In a way, a number of good things have been provided in a transport program, and there are a number of things in a communication program, but I don't see that the funds they will put into the budget of the next few years, not with the exception of the two budgets established by this government. With regard to the country's high schools and university campuses, which have made a big difference in their settlements, there is nothing that guarantees financial resources to be properly run by these institutions of education. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u152	V.E.G. President. In this synonym, which, of course, is a frame plan, there is no economic division. There are no relevant and satisfying data on how to protect the total expenses estimated here for 2016 and the subsequent years. Of course, it's not the budget bill, and it's not divided down to a unique body of sheep, because it's part of the budget, but it's basic lines and focus cannot be read out of this proposal. So I ask: Is it acceptable that we are accepting a budget frame that we do not have a clue to the importance of seminaries? Isn't this a weird way to work?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u153	Mr. President. Yeah, it's a little bit like we're dancing in some void about this. Of course, the issues of public financial policy in the case that have been discussed here, public finance, which began working to shape policies during the last term, and was taken out of a budget in a conflict this morning, should be determined much better within certain legal categories, i.e. how to make a income exchange in such a budget to four years of age. In fact, there is not much to be said in this government budget that can be put on and see what comes out of it. It's some kind of frame, then it's completely unpublished, and they don't know where the money is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u154	President. Thank you. A senator's excellent speech and especially the Norwegian glasses the senator proposed to consider this decree. I think it's important to have a real comparison in these subjects and to keep it before your eyes. You're right next door. A senator and a last man. In answer to that, you simply don't see where you're going to lose money, how you're going to make it up to the state's budget when you promise you're going to lose taxes, etc. However, what is seen and has been drawn up today in the discussion is that the state's income as a proportion of land production should come together over the years, and we are therefore on the way away from the Norwegian model we would like to be in but never have been. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u155	Mr. President. It has been observed in the discussion that the budget of GDP is dropping. What does it mean in English? That we put less money in the building of society, no matter what name we call it. It's very serious. We're going the opposite way if we're going to call ourselves a North American welfare community. In the years following a collapse, it was good to say that those people who lost their jobs here could be rescued by going to the country around us, earning money, and living out of unemployment. It may be that way, but now we want to be as far away as we can reach home for all the people who left. Then each one decides what he does. [[The president calls.]] However, we would like to have such a community that we can invite the people who had to leave after the collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u156	President. Welcome home, I agree. Happily, in recent years and in recent decades, and perhaps immediately during the small crisis in 1968, the people who go to work and study in the North countries will return, not only with a better salary but also with a better education of their children, but with that idea and a question: Why isn't it here? Nothing is learning from this today, and it was noteworthy during the very day. Bjarni son of Benediktsson's finance minister complained directly that the labor movement did not want to be part of the Norwegian craze model. It was supposed to be a Norwegian basis, but the norse agreement model is exactly the North American welfare system that both the head of professional drivers and the remuneration workers there count the basis for the contracts and partial exchanges made there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u157	Mr. President. You see, the big thing is that inside that equation is the welfare system. It's as simple as that. You can't separate it, if they order the North American national agreement and plan to let go of the resistance that's the welfare system. Then let's get the welfare system in Iceland in the same place as the North countries, and then let's talk about the collective agreements they like in the North countries with all the threads in the same place, that humans are moving on and maintaining the stability that everybody naturally wants to live on. Then, too, people must speak in the same tongues. This is not today, and this government has shown no testimony in understanding the importance of social equality. It is the basis for society to thrive and to grow naturally, as we see in the North countries and to want to see here as we have often said. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u158	A respectable president. I'd like to make a comment to what's been said, that the bright future will keep a party board meeting this afternoon while we found it. It has usually been during the council that the president has taken such an account. It is shocking when an entire body cannot attend and participate in a discussion, I do not talk about a discussion like this that really concerns the entire foundation. It's all under when we're talking about the budget so I'll go looking for a respectable president that he'll pass on this meeting, since the meeting of the Bjart's company board has been going on for almost two hours. I just think it's good to do this, and just like that, because there's a sailor weekend ahead, and a lot of senators want to go to their house to join the homecoming with the locals on Sunday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u159	V.E.G. President. I agree with what. United States chairman of the Left Green, Chessy Svavarsdóttir. I think it's unnatural that one category is discriminated against in this way. Meetings are always taken into account as a convention meeting at the convention program. Of course, a meeting may have been arranged according to the Council Work Programme. The Senate was to be completed and in recessed, so this is inconsiderate of a political party represented at the General Assembly of the Icelanders. Then I'd like to say we're discussing a national financial program. We created a system to discuss the budget with the arrival of all ministers and different lawsuits. Now the Minister will not be so little about being here, let alone any other members of Congress. [[The president calls.]] Only a few senators are enrolled into houses, and this is an odd behavior with a plan as important as a national budget.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u160	I'm here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u161	Mr. President. I agree with my colleagues that a bright future is being taken into account and that the work programme is over. It would also be interesting to see more government officials who have spoken a lot about the homes in the country, that they appreciate how they see in the national financial program we are here in well - paying homes of the country. I see no more than one member of Congress that this proposal carries it with him. It would be good for them to take up the policy presented here and, among other things, oppose the approval of the forwarding party government. A financial minister should follow this case in a way if he considers it a document that we believe is not, for he and the government have made important decisions that disturb the document so that it is basically out of the water. [[The president calls.]] There's no point in discussing this plan, it doesn't apply anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u162	President. As it pleases me to be able to participate in a discussion about the future financial affairs, it is not entirely reasonable that we allow ourselves to be held here for long speeches and short while our associates in a bright future are busy at a meeting that is long - lived and long - proclaimed. It's a little different on the loan. On the one hand, there is this category, a bright future, that cannot participate in the discussion, and on the other hand, a group that I do not remember is larger or smaller, according to surveys called the Independence Party that does not wish to participate in the discussion. Yet, it is thus protected by an independent individual, even the highest. The head of the Independence Party, which presents the matter of Congress, which is made up of just one person in the house, evidently one of the best independent men available at the General Assembly at this time, the liberal assent. þm. Brynjar the son of Niel, but that's not quite enough, and borrowing is certainly mistaken at this meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u163	Mr. President. If time permits, I'm about to give a speech shortly afterwards and I'd like to get an answer from the secretary of finance, the head of the Economic and Business Committee, and the chairman of the legal committee because I have a few questions for them. I feel that this policy piece is a little thrown to the hands. It seems that there are proverbial errors there and heresies, such as the head of a currency, when it is clearly spoken of as capitalist or so. I'd most much like to talk about the apartment loan fund and the International Economics Association. The domestic emissary organizations have a case in the apartment loans that will be judged in the fall. Why is it not discussed there? It has something to do with an apartment loan fund, how much it can cost, and I'd like to discuss it. I would like to talk about execution, and then the question is, Would we not rather postpone this discussion, take some other matter on the schedule until the weekend, when we begin to see things about how it's handled, and how it can be affected? [[The president calls.]] I'm waiting for the president to call for these people to come to a house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u164	The president may know that a minister of finance has been made known that his presence is requested. The chairman of the budget board is in a house according to best information.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u165	President. In view of the fact that it has been observed at the highest level. The minister of finance has been informed of his interest in being present, is it not true that we interrupt the discussion until the minister of finance has entered the house so that we can have a word with him? It's Friday, late seven, and it's a pleasure to continue our discussion here. I ask, "How long will the meeting be continued by the President in view of the request of the Council of Bjart's chairman for the future that the meeting is not held as long as a bright future cannot take part in the Senate work? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u166	Mr. President. If it's tradition to keep a meeting not at the same time as some political party party party party party meeting, I think it's very serious, and it's a good thing that it's done now when one particular body of government has such a meeting. Of course, a meeting should be delayed no later than it is now. Besides, there are very few of us left at the Assembly Hall, since it's at far past seven, and I think it's much closer to canceling just the highest power. In view of justice, the secretary of finance said that a meeting has been terminated, we have gone home for a break for the weekend, and we are getting rather fresh in this discussion on Monday morning. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u167	Thank you very much. A president especially for telling us that the chairman of the legal committee is in the house. I'll be very calm right away. I also want to use this opportunity to join them in praising as I am. paritaprevir The Árnason's mother moved about. paritaprevir Brunes the Brynjar of Níelsson. Indeed, he is an example of the introductory use of speech. I recall that shortly after I gave my long speech yesterday on the Board of Directors' Committee, he agreed to return to a committee. If I had the chance to give a speech over what? The chairman of the budget board is asked if she reacts similarly. At least I don't think it's right to try. What's top of my mind is that there's no manners to reason. Senators Birts of the future, who have formally requested that meetings be interrupted while holding their own platoon board meeting. It has always been customary, even before the assembly has released a whole day, when the Independence Party's National Meeting has been held. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u168	Mr. President. I wish to have it declared whether such a thing has happened for a long time at least, that this is the way it has been done to one of the council members at the General Assembly, that there has been no pause at a meeting when such a large meeting is held as a platoon board, a national meeting, and so forth, as this is done. I don't think you can say it's late, that's it. As we noted earlier, the Senate was to be completed, a work plan has long since expired, and it is therefore absolutely indiscriminate not to consider. Besides, there is certainly a chairman of the budget board in a house rather than a vice president and no independent person to participate in this matter that they love so much and consider to be a great policy plan. [[The president calls.]] They must want to have a word with us along with those who speak so seriously about how this affects the homes of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u169	V.E.G. President. We're here on the second part of Friday. As has been informed, a party of political parties is being held at the council. The tradition has always been that humans have been granted permission for the last week. The President's meeting by 0500 hours. 17 Because the Conspiracy had a big meeting that night. I think we should try to keep this tradition. We're not gonna finish this discussion tonight, so it's just as well to go on Monday. Even if I'm ready to give my talk afterwards, I strongly recommend that the meeting be terminated. In addition, there is a sailor's day ahead of us. In Grindavik, the seaman is on its way, and there are other occasions when the council members and I would like to participate if at all possible. This is a challenge to the highest. The President about completing the meeting now, and then he's up for his cheer on Monday. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u170	A respectable president. I'm not going to make a lot of remarks to the President's conference board because the president is doing a lot of good in this job. I'm going to declare my joy that there's such a demand for me at the Senate Hall. I sat down in a councilroom, and I now sit in the side hall to listen to the talks of the senators who discuss the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u171	V.E.G. President. I agree with what was said in a case. paritaprevir The Guðbjartur son of Hannesson, an hour ago. I might indiscriminately continue this meeting for a long time, but there are principles that have long been respected here at the council. If the Parliamentary Conference is to be suspended, then the Senate shall be suspended, and it is actually bound in the Senate Act. Then there is another principle that has been taken to address the subject, and it is that if a political party at the Allied Council is raised for a national meeting or what they are called, these chief synagogues of the political movement, it is recognized a request not to hold a assembly. It's always been respected as long as I remember. [[The president calls.]] I'm gonna go back to the President's conference board because I haven't said all the things I'd like to say about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u172	President. Although this is the case, at least there is still a need for the wariest. A financial minister is not fair to rob what. Councilmen Bright the future of enjoying the fascinating presence at present. The vice president of the budget board and the 1/19th part of the Council of Independence, which stands here in the door named Brubbur Níelsson. Senator. If people thought that I was making fun with those words, they may think so, but so as to be entertained, it is not fun for the council to act so unfairly, that I do not say a pacifists' future beyond all the reasons that should not be held by members of the council until the Friday afternoon for a sailor's weekend. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u173	Mr. President. To me, it's all about equality. Is it so that the future for which other political groups are to enjoy is not over? I know a lot of bacteria as the former head of a political party that it has always been taken into account when political parties hold large meetings in their principal institutions, and then the council has conducted its own conference in view of this. I called the Independence Party. This has been often done when the Independence Party holds a large meeting that has been postponed, even canceled for a whole day. This has happened with the United States, and why should the future not enjoy it? What has been said by the former attorney general of this, the most elegant of human society, that the principle of human relations, and especially at the World Council of Iceland, should be equal? [[Up front.]] What causes a bright future to fail to enjoy equality? What does it say? paritaprevir Do Brynjar's Níelsson about it, or does he lack a word to explain this desirable thing?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u174	Mr. President. Although it is the best thing to do. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has come here to participate in the discussions, but this did not trigger the incident. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir began this discussion about the President's conference board, thinking that we're not the only ones here, and that we're going to continue our conference, even though the entire group of Bjarts'future is at a party board meeting. That's what happened. paritaprevir A week ago, Gudly Hannesson, a council meeting was stopped at the end of the week. 17 because the Conspiracy was meeting. It's been a week since it was done. I don't think it's official that a meeting has not been delayed by now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u175	V.E.G. President. I think it's time for me to get to the top. The president will answer the question, "Why do the senators of Bjarts not get the same treatment when they hold their meetings and the rest of the political parties? " Are there any privileges to independence party, forward party, convergence, and the left movement a surely green supply? What about Pizza? Do they remember permission if they wished to do so? Is there a policy between the Senate's administration and political discrimination? I don't think it's acceptable, and there's no way to differ in this way. This shows amazing values that may reflect the following that voters are showing with increased support to Pirata in polls. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u176	V.E.G. President. Many senators have made a silent announcement about the President's conference board, and many present their case in a humorous tone but below the limit. That's what I'm pointing to at the highest. The Speaker of the Parliament is taking our wishes seriously. We represent the Council of the Council of the Council, and we seek that this discussion will be interrupted beyond the weekend in order to respect the wishes of one political party, which is now the highest council. This has always been done, and we stress that this fundamental prince will be respected. Then I'd like to ask, "Why do men extend this discussion? " Yes, they believe that it will work sooner, and they will be reduced to next week. [[The president calls.]] That's a big misunderstanding. It's not gonna happen. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] This will be to extend the discussion, but it's not on the basis that I make this request at the highest. Rather, to respect the principles that we have so far made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u177	A respectable president. First, let me just talk about the constantly calling for Ministers into the discussion when ministers have given their case to the council. It is the responsibility of the council to complete matters. The Ministers come here to discuss the matter, then hand it over to the members of the council and to the members of the Parliament so that it is said first. I'm just now hearing about this meeting at Birt's Eve and thinking it's odd that the Bjart's campaign chairman didn't ask for the fact that a meeting with them was not during the time of this special meeting so that I'll join the government stand, that it's not entirely appropriate for members of the Parliament to fail in the debate for such a large or vast meeting. [[The deal is, it was requested...]] I give you support to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u178	V.E.G. President. I must agree that I only heard of this meeting recently and agree that it's naturally wrong if it needs a representative of a party at this discussion. I can agree with that, but I feel that since people are talking about equality and equality, we need to have some sort of a tune about when we're presenting. According to my sources, this meeting was not announced until four o'clock, so that may explain why we are in this position. [[Up front.]] But in view of this, I think it's all right that we start putting up this discussion and then go over with it next week, but we'll get some clearer rules on these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u179	Mr. President. First, I'd like to commend the president of the council, Mr. Einar K.. The only son of Guðfinnsson, who in the last days has cut short a meeting, stopped putting on this press conference at the time. 10 and the end of them at midnight. He cut it short and then sent a message to the directors of the board that it was time to sit down with the leaders of the smaller section, start discussing matters, and try to figure out what can be done to complete the council. He deserves credit for that. However, as I have often been seen in this public speaker to favor only stewards, perhaps especially stewards, and, in particular, financial ministers. I've seen it repeatedly. I have also noticed that the rules established by the Presidency Committee on how to conduct a work meeting have not been fully followed, e.g. how the bar is in bells. You know, there's a rhythm thing to do. You're supposed to be careful to wait five seconds, then you're supposed to hit, etc. It's just Silja Dögg who follows this completely, regardless of who's on the speaker's chair. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u180	It should be noted that the current president was not known until just before the arrival of a meeting with the Carer's future. The president intends to consider this and to postpone a meeting after the next talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-05-120.u181	V.E.G. President. I had stated that I did not refuse to give the talk I had wished to give. The matter is important, we're discussing a plagion proposal for a budget of state over 2016 ◯2019. It is taking a specific step, which is the first part of the budget process that I have rejoiced here in previous talks at the council, that it was the very step of entering the General Assembly by means of a General Assembly hearing proposal for a financial programme, which will then be the basis for financial legislation. It comes in rather late this time, and of course it is a particular development project, so we will probably see it develop. It's critical, including. of the smaller parts to the oar. The budget, that it may be merely setting the criteria that are in the budget every fall but not taking further analysis or working to try to do the best of the plan. I have also discussed this year at the council and, in fact, in the past, that just what has to be done at the Allied Parliament is that there are other long - term plans. This does not mean that they are final and unchanging. Rather, they need to be developed by policies that receive coverage from all political parties at the right time. General. An example of this is a road program that has not been in force in the last two years, i.e. since this government began, and then came into the council during the last days of the council, just last week, a four-year transport policy, and abducted here in two weeks or so. The same applies to health programs that are to be legally submitted at the council. They've put in a 10-year plan. It was out. We in the last government bring it, of course, rather late then, let's quite confess it, but then nothing has happened and there's been work on it, as I know. It is bad that such programs are not to be made. The third example I can mention here, without being able to list all long-term plans or policy dates, is the framework for activation options and the setting of decision-making, whether to activate or appease certain rivers or areas. It has been very difficult to deal with how to deal with such a plan and how we can maintain it in such a program in an effort to prevent an endless debate about them. A fourth is a new schedule adopted here, a system plan, i.e. how to put electrical lines around the country. It is of great importance that the very plan for the Council and that, after much discussion at the council and much opposition to the administration at the original bill, will change the format so that such a strategy will be established for the Council so that men can go to date work before going into operation. But what has been missing and the lack of real value is academicism and professionalism. I am now being directed to try to shape academic policy. I thought white book was the highest. A minister of education should be the highest policy. A minister who would then be in addition to the laws that are in force in the country on Icelandic schools and schools. Then, all kinds of work are being carried out throughout the country and activities that conflict entirely with this white book, at least in no direct context, and are applied to interpret laws as far as possible to make certain changes, things that have caused unrest, insecurity, and dissatisfaction across the country. These are things that should have been taken as a basic conference at the beginning, just as the people would like to be together in education. The same is true of health matters. There is no political need or reason to keep these issues involved. We're supposed to be able to defend these classes of political conflicts, but unfortunately, this government seems to be so conflicted that there seems to be a special appeal to create a conflict on the matter contrary to the highest level. A government has said in its government covenant. Of course, it's perfunctory to look at this document, and it will be, as I say, to respect it to those who suggest that this is the first attempt to get into this process. It is disappointing when you consider the discussion on the procrastination issue. A budget to see how at least certain things in the world could escape without making comments to them. That's where I might have started my talk. How can there be a proposal for a resolution of the State budget four years ago, which directly states that there is a cost-elevating increase of about 2% per year in the number of government workers, i.e. to increase their income by 2% over inflation, but social security, i.e. Pension payments and subsidies, would it be 1%, half less? How could this happen? How could this also escape from a greater portion of the legal committee, which did not comment on this in a committee study? At the same time, there is expected to be some credibility behind the criticism of a collective agreement that would improve and social security, pension payments, increase according to the collective agreements being made. V.E.G. Secretary of the economy says we can't handle it, it's too expensive. At the same time, others will come and say: You must not be so impatient, you will follow through with changes in pension pay. This is a four-year policy document that says that there should be a half-fold increase in the social security group, i.e. those with pensions and subsidies, but in public payers in the state. It's just these things that it's good to be able to get suggestions to talk about them, but it's a big disappointment. Don't make this right. Don't put your fist on the table and say, "This is not how we do it. This is in opposition to what the people want. Another curious thing when you get one of these things -- there was a debate about what. The chairman of a legal committee that made it very unexpected that this was an election for 2013. We would never have realized that except because of what we were doing. A senator mentioned it for the first time today. This document is very effective, and it has actually been shown in a number of similar figures how the change took place during the last term, where things started. For example, if we take up a decline in unemployment, which, fortunately became transient in Iceland, unemployment declines rapidly since 2010. It's on page 8. 9 on this plate. The economy also starts from 2010. The increase in power is also from that time. Since then we have received confirmation of what has been more uniformly increased during this period, in the time of the last government, so it is good to have this also confirmed under the terms of a national financial programme for 2016-2019. To this end, let us not belittle the fact that today's social situation has many positive factors. I mean, there's been tremendous growth in tourism. Travellers are becoming the most remuneration-employment industry in the world. The seafood exit has held its place through the collapse, and there it was very much help for a person to walk on the crown, something he would expect the fishing road to be involved in the improvement of his livelihood, i.e. to cut off the share of those who lost 20 are twenty-25% of their potential purchase at the collapse of the general paymen. It has also survived safely through the collapse. Despite a temporary decrease in prices there, the situation in these articles is very good. This creates a basis for a restoration, but you can't see that it's supposed to do this. You say, "We're going to have a tax cut, and we're going to be in a bargain if we're going to reduce our income. " You get that sort of reasoning, as it is known from the American right categories in Europe, popu list groups, which always set up the image that by lowering taxes, you can expand your service. This has not worked. You can discuss with what form of taxation is imposed on you, etc., by trying to correct the type of purchases and the like, but it is evident in this financial program that you should reduce your income and that the ministry will suffer even if you have beautiful words about it. In fact, the plan also shows that if the cost of buying goes above 2% and the pay costs are higher than expected here, it will have to be met by surgery. It actually comes out, and then you start to ask yourself, " Was this also something that the government had emphasized? ' Yeah, it seems. Then it is very interesting to consider also the work being done and those who will live through investments into the next period. They had already started. Let's take the jail on Hólmshök. We can accept the nursing home that is paying our rent, since our rural society and the State united in improving the situation of those living in nursing homes with vast investments in that sector. This is being followed now in this well-being plan, let's not belittle it. The changes in the health system are considered excellent - just as the above shows that the health system was affected during the last term. I have personally said as former health minister repeatedly that we realized that we were on the edge and too far in 2012, so I had no hope that the first budget of a new government would have further cuts, but, fortunately, it could be reassigned. For example, during the increase in self - respect, the required dentists for children, the drug bill, which did not cost too much, were as much as the pay campaign that was attempted to balance the status of the female classes of the country with other classes in the subsequent years of much discussion about the pay rights in the country. This is true of several billion people, and thankfully, despite the harsh forecasts, bad publicity, and negative talk about these actions, when a new government did not change this. Thanks to the fact that it hasn't been tried. It is happy, for example, that in an agreement with the doctors that this arrangement was made for a strong health system. Sadly, these strikes work in the opposite direction. The situation in the hospital and the lack of respect for employees, such as biologists and radiologists, who have spent the longest in a strike, up to nine weeks in the United States, is complete, but since then men have set themselves to try to get up here a health - care system that is comparable to the best in the North countries. We have said: Yes, well, we support our whole mind to pursue that goal, but then we also need to go out to increase the share of the health system that goes into the country's production, and there we've spoken of the need to go up to 9.6-10% of the country's production. We're talking tens of millions of rises just to keep the promise that this government has made - but it won't do anything about what's going on in this government budget. There is great concern that there is no consistent agreement between what is presented here and the agreements that have been made in other places. The same applies to the new land hospital, which does not fit in with the schedule but would have had to be there for the promises made there, at least Shows how to enter the treatment core itself, which is the largest and most important building. At the same time that this is done, and that's what you don't really understand when people are promising such a welfare system, so to speak, they're giving up money, i.e. toess are toying about having dropped income tax. We're talking about 0.3◯0.35%, and we can all figure out how much this is on those that have 300 to400 you. K. or around it. This is not crucial in the home book, unfortunately, and reminds us of the actions carried out by the former government after the collective agreements in December 2013 when men entered with a reduction of 1k. In taxes on keels of gas. We cannot find in any way that there has ever been a drop in fuel prices, which has been tremendously swinging since this was done. The bottle of red is about 3 farts. K. decreased by 20 k. It was the government's introduction in the collective agreements last time it was due to be a stable force. But here's the deal. Men would compliment themselves because they had defended certain groups. The question of who has been protected and who has been made to pay has been very helpful. At the same time as taxes are reduced, there are increased charges, increased payoffs, and all to the increase in school costs without being returned to school. We've had an increase in the state radio, and it doesn't make any sense. True, it has been adjusted to the future for some time, but I'm not going to go over it in detail here. I mentioned the earlier investments. It is therefore welcome that plans for the future include investments in science, research, and technology. We support that whole mind. It was in an investment plan of the former government, was thrown off the board but is back in the plan now. They're talking about a pretty large figure, we're talking about a $680 billion set of state funds, and when we're talking about 1% of your maintenance goals, as set in here, it's making a considerable contribution to business. At the same time, people claim to make large sums of contributions to social security each year and talk about 6 to 8 billion. That's a similar amount. We should realize that, unfortunately, everything in this government is going to be the same, that, in the highly reformed environment of economic and commercially, it is not to distribute money to the most needed, but to those most in need. In fact, it has gone so far. Secretary of finance has allowed us to have doubts about whether we have gone too far in this community. It's a very strange statement, and you have to worry about such statements. That's the background of the national budget set up here. I was deeply concerned that the primary expenditure without irregular teams of land production decreases under this budget as well as from 24.4% in 2015 to 23.4% in 2019. What are these primary expenses? It's the services of the Icelandic government. These expenses are educational, health, and insurance. These are the transfers, they're just the way it is called, and they're being preached even further in the housing system. Still, when it is your goal to be able to reduce it, you need permission to ask: "Who will suffer, and who will eventually cause it to pay for it? " Many questions remain, perhaps in many respects normal. I'm not going to belittle the fact that you can't answer everything in this budget, and I'm going back to celebrating that it's submitted. It provides a basis for conversation. Consider, for example, the Substitute Bank, here is no additional fees due to an apartment loan fund that is already in great difficulty and is not able to give clear answers about what is to be done or what will take place. There are 1.3 billion in 2016 and then nothing. It would be amazing if this could be released, but this is an example of things that are likely to be explained when the rights of housing are presented, the ones waiting for almost two years, both for housing benefits and as a stock or as a wax - burgeoning payment to help people build houses or a roof over their heads. Overall, it is good to have this schedule. They would have to be more than what is presented here in particular, although not all the dissensions are published in this program. [[The president calls.]]
