ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u1	As was announced at a meeting yesterday, president has received a program that is as follows: ▪ We signed it, making our suggestion in line with 1st. 77st. Conventional protocol that the next meeting will be as follows: 1st Unprepared query time. 2. The situation in the labour market, the oral report of the prime minister. 3. Special discussion of insurance. A verbal vendetta, Sigríður Ingadóttir, answers to the question of prime minister, Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson. 4. Special discussion of planned tax changes and balance in the community. Painting is Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, and to answer, the minister of finance and economics is Bjarni Benediktsson. 5. Specific patient safety reports following the number of healthcare professionals reported. An apocalyptic, by Jón Þór Ólafsson, to counter this issue, will be the minister of health, Kristján Þór Júlíusson. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u2	A respectable president. It's a little unusual to come here on the third day in a row, sort of on your knees, to ask the Senate to help with the fact that we can have special discussions here with the Honourable Minister. That's all we're asking for. Our day - to - day proposal is that people are now putting ahead of discussion on the general issues of a special discussion. One has waited since January; another has been waiting since February; the verbal request has been waiting since May; then there is one new one. This is all we're asking for, and I ask myself, "Why do men vote against this thing repeatedly? It will take two hours to handle this aspect, this is the part that we members of the Parliament - a tool that we are given in the Senate to monitor the activities of the European Commission and what is going on there, while members of the Parliament lie here for a month that we can take a special discussion on the program. [[The president calls.]] And for what? Just to show your power to the smaller parts? We are asking you to assist us in receiving this special discussion. [[The president calls.]] That's all we ask for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u3	Mr. President. V.E.G. The president of the Generalis has neglected the legal surveillance of members of Congress against the European Commission. Therefore, more of the council can activate this proposal, allowing us to spend two hours discussing very important matters of present time, such as the health crisis. You've agreed to a contract, but I'm sure they'll be killed. We need to discuss it. We need to discuss what was available in these contracts. What is government policy regarding health care? We need an opportunity to discuss these matters. There's no one in here who doesn't agree that it's important. You have the authority to schedule this. I can't believe you're doing this, but we still have this suggestion and will continue to bear it up so that you reject it against your own conscience.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u4	Mr. President. Since summer council continues as there is no tomorrow, I think it is time to consider the government's request to receive a special discussion that has been offered since January and February and then a fresh discussion of the safety of patients following a mass review that is very important to consider here. The information asked for, special discussion, is about insurance, and the balance in the community. These are important subjects that we need to discuss. Why is the opposition not being listened to? Why do they trust ministers that are not involved in coming here to discuss these matters with the generals? What does it say in men? It must be justified by the government's opposition to get such a subject on a program that is not a major part of the time that the General has to discuss. [[The president calls.]] We just demand that our wishes be fulfilled.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u5	V.E.G. President. It's been a while since I asked for a special discussion at the top. Prime Minister on the policy of the advance party to eliminate insurance. This was one of the largest campaign campaigns of the forward party that led to much expectation, but we have not seen anything about it. We have begun to experience driving growths due to underlying inflation, and then there are the unpredictable consequences of capital decommissioning, so it is very important that we take this discussion so that people in the country know what lies ahead in the loan market. Then I think it's very important that we discuss our medical facilities. Even though negotiations have now taken place, all those associated with the health system know that there is a tremendous dissatisfaction among nurses. BHM has not yet reached any contracts, and it is in doubt that all the reports that have now been received will be retracted. [[The president calls.]] We have to talk about this because it's a very serious situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u6	A respectable president. I request information from the President when a specific discussion was last taken on this program. I think Congress will be surprised how long it was. They're stepping on our rights, members of the government opposition, in order to have a conversation with the Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u7	Right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u8	Why, for example, has the highest. The minister of finance was not prepared to take special discussions at the moment. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon of the social equation and the effect of tax change since January? A respectable president. Of course it's not working. For the whole month, while there has been no work schedule, no such discussion has been scheduled. Do they really think that's okay? The head of the board is just showing up at the order of the morning and continuing to tread on our rights by vote against these proposals. Have you read what we are asking for? [[The president calls.]] This is our spontaneous request that two hours of the council now be used to give us the right to take advantage of special discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u9	A respectable president. In a short future, a request was made last autumn to discuss in the special discussion of freedom of expression in Iceland in the light of recent sentences for the European Court of Human Rights in the lawsuit of journalist Hlynsdóttir Helyndsdóttir against the Icelandic State. Since our request to do so, she has done one more thing in front of the European Court of Human Rights. It is, in fact, completely self-denial and self-denial when a man continues a program here many weeks after the Council's work programme has been completed that includes having a right, that it is only on the side of the board of directors, i.e. Today's politics are scheduled, but they do not take into account the lesser part, and they wish to discuss certain matters that arise in society that are different from that of the Senate or of the President's board. [[The president calls.]] It's a spontaneous wish that is presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u10	Mr. President. I don't place much hope that the head of the Senate body votes on this program, but I insist on making them aware of why they don't trust in this discussion. Why do you trust the highest. Will not the minister of Sigmundur Davíð Gunnlaugsson be able to discuss decommissioned insurance? Why do you trust the highest. The minister of Bjarni Benediktsson does not see to it that a special discussion of the social equation has been made in the wake of a planned tax change? Because of what, chief. Minister? Why does Kristján trust Þór Júlíusson, the highest? Minister, is not there now seeing to discuss a serious health - care situation following the mass - reported nurse reports at the Land Hospital? Why? What kind of conduct is this about the Reich? We're supposed to stand here all summer and discuss the management section's wishes, but people don't trust in an honest discussion of such urgent matters. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u11	The president would like to state that as possible, he has been a great amateur to bring up special discussions and that it is a natural part of the work of the Parliament that special discussions about important issues are presented. During the next week, he will try to make such a conversation possible and will try to negotiate it with members of the council and with others in the matter. Of course, the president had not imagined that the council would be delayed, and that is why the above - mentioned discussion has not been emphasized. Next week, the president will try to get us to some special discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u12	A respectable president. I believe the Senate work these days should aim to bring this council together and to complete the Senate work. We may be trying to have a conversation about how it can happen, but we are here, as has been said here, far beyond our schedule. Why is that? One reason is that in this spring, humans have made such abundant use of the freedom of expression. This is where I see people shaking their heads. [[For the record, when did you...?]] - Can I have a minute without being disturbed? 2,500 talks for the President's conference board from New York, almost 50 hours for a meeting with President. And they complain that they will not be allowed to speak to a minister. I'm here to answer unsubstantiated inquiries, and I don't know that there was some lack that you've shown a willingness to have a special conversation. However, once they have taken the council as a hostage in a completely unnatural way and are upset here, it is bizarrely strange and disloyal that humans will follow and say: "Why can't we have a word with the Ministers? [[The president calls.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u13	To answer, Budget and Economic Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Environmental and Resource Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u14	Mr. President. It is now that here at the Council, we will discuss many matters, but we do not know enough of our time to discuss the major issues of our day, which are climate change. They come about one black report after another, and we already find changes in weather patterns that have a significant impact on our survival here on land as well as, of course, people everywhere else in the world. At times, it has been so big that it is almost hard to possess, and it is also difficult to have this discussion in terms, so it will be left out in the conventional debate of the politics. I'd like to ask the highest. Environment Minister on Iceland's climate goals, I know that there is, in fact, questions that have not been allowed to answer the council for any reason on the matter, for the conference planned in Paris that the nations hope to achieve after repeated efforts to achieve new agreements on how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the next century. - I hear it. Today's biggest topic of modern - day affairs on which all politicians should study and work solutions is not a major concern. The European Union has already set out its climate targets, Norway has long since completed it and has produced targets aimed at reducing emissions by 40% compared to 1990 by 2030. The Environment and Transport Committee was introduced to Iceland's climate targets several months ago and still has nothing to do with them. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: Where are the goals, when will they come, and where will they be? This is what we members of Congress need to know before we go home on vacation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u15	A respectable president. I thank you for the leader. I'm glad this case came on the II Parliamentis program. First, I'd like to say and agree with the senator's comments that this is truly one of the most important issues we have in our lives and not just with Icelanders, since this is global. This is a subject where, like everyone else, we can contribute to the scales by participating in a solution to a global problem. Last night was on the news, I think it was every day in the news, but I remember it was on TV that there was a coverage from Bloomberg on global warming. And it showed that it is really anyone who can do better, that it is the greatest man - made thing that happens, so we can each look into our own hearts and each one try to do better in these matters. The questions were about what was being done, and I can please the senator as well as the other members of the council here by working very hard on this within five advisers. This will be submitted in the government before a council return next week, so this goal will be established. And because this was called our neighboring kingdom, Norway, and it was quite right. A senator said of the goals Norway has set out, however, Norway is going to follow with Europe, cooperate with the European brain, and I think it is very likely, so I say, that we will follow Norway and Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u16	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. If these goals are presented in the government next week, I'd like to emphasize that. Environmental and transport committees and what. They are given a presentation at the same time by a foreign press committee. Councilmen are informed of their goals. However, I would like to say here that, indeed, each individual can contribute to the reduction of climate change, but in this matter it will not be taken unless the governments of the world agree on drastic measures. Each of us cannot be held responsible for the trend in global climate change, and it takes far more drastic measures than we have seen to this point. We need to face the need for governments to take their initiative in making energy exchange in all transport fleets. It won't be done with soft motives, so I say, we've tried these techniques for years. If we're going to take note of the clues that come out every year, I'm most impressed. A minister to make sure that the goals that will be presented next week will be radical so that we can expect them to produce some results. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u17	A respectable president. Of course, more is involved than a person's thinking about himself. However, I would like to reiterate that each person can still think about how he lives, and life - style affects the climate of many people. It is true that we Icelanders are pursuing it, and Prime Minister has declared it at a meeting with United Nations Secretary - General Ban Ki-moon to stop using fossil fuels, and that vision certainly encourages us to celebrate. We have a much special situation that will improve the quality of our green energy, but we need to do better, I take my mind to that, and especially in the general transport and also in the fishing fleet. We are now in cooperation with our communities in preparing for this Paris conference and it seems very likely that representatives from the city of Reykjavík will be included in the Paris embassy for a green city policy. [[The president calls.]] We can increase the power of a car, that's one of our goals, and then I want a lot of carbon input into forestry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u18	President. First, I'd like to point out that it would be all right if I did. The minister of finance would be only more honest about the situation here at the council. It is reasonable to think that it would have been better to interrupt the Senate service until the stable tax was ready. He did not enter the council until the eighth month. So I think it's very important that we just be honest with it. The government's opposition cannot be pointed out that we're so impossible, and that's why we're so late with the work programme. The plan is late because this case came in late, and I think it's all right if we're gonna try to pay for it right now. I admit that when we were discussing the program proposal, she was also a little unfair. If we're going to land somewhere - and we're about to land, it's not at the top. Secretary of finance and his company, it's been in the advance, but I think it's about to go to port. I'd like to ask the highest degree. The secretary of finance whether he considers it wise in the light of new news is subject to the fact that the case against the prosecuting Minister of the trade is not to be judged until September, to wait only for the fall, only for a few weeks before the fallwater council meets, so that we may now be left alone in completing this great and great matter, which is far more important when it comes to the national interest that reaches the initial limit of reducing the currency.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u19	Mr. President. First, only on the state of the council. I believe that it was possible to resolve very carefully and to continue relatively simple matters, abnormally slow. It's funny if people don't know that it's because there's been some other disagreement. There's been a lot of disagreement on issues, such as about the employment board proposal for a frame plan. This has been a significant time here during the council because they would not allow it to speak in votes. You just have to know what it's like. The methods they use at the council must be recognized as effective. I think it's kind of lame if you don't want to know about it. I have accepted that we are in a position to use every means of government to prevent the approved Icesave agreements at the time and as well as that humans will have a long schedule of footings for changes in the constitution, etc. I've heard of it. But there's always a lot of white-washed people here, and they don't want to know that you've been delaying the Senate. That's amazing. 2,500 hearings about the President's conference board. That's a new record.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u20	And there will be more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u21	There'll be more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u22	Now answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u23	[[The president calls.]] I'm just saying it's part of the process that has diminished respect for the council or for the council. For this particular case, I'm going to start by saying so. It is a misunderstanding that an agreement can be made with the Independence Party on the one hand and with the forwarding party on how the council ends. It's a government team, and this is a government case that has passed through both sides of the board, you can't make a deal of what. If that's not an agreement for the overall population, then there's no agreement with the members of the administration and those who make up the government. So it's a misunderstanding. Regarding the mackerel, I want to believe that the minister worked hard to meet comments and that it is important that this matter be completed. I don't agree that it's just great to be out there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u24	President. You, like the guru, have a filibuster, which is the highest. Secretary of the budget, our great guru of government opposition. [[Up front.]] It's a big misunderstanding that I've been saying that I didn't use any means of stopping the box, I didn't say it, but I pointed out to the minister that he came very late with his case, that no one has stood in the way of it, and it would have been more reasonable in view of how controversial a matter came into the council, and how much means was used to achieve a basic change and destroy the box, that, of course, should have solved it just a committee, and the minister should have solved it. I find it very interesting to hear, I don't know if it's nice or sorry, that the Minister actually refers to the government's commission on the end of the council to the forward party because it's been so, instead of the traditional meeting of the Chairmans, professional ministers have been sent to the Commission's last meeting. [[The president calls.]] So that's the new Chairman. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u25	A respectable president. What can you say in this discussion? First of all, the frame has been controversial. Yes, it's fine to know that he's been taken hostage here. I'm not a speaker of the previous council, if they want to look them up, it's quite simple. We've used our rights at the council to be difficult on the past council, yes, but I'd also like to state clearly about the changes to take place. For example, we agree that it would be good for a matter to live between members of the council, me and the other councils. A senator, but perhaps not completely agree on what adjustments must be made in order to accomplish this. I have noted many times that it is commendable that the procedure for the case is well agreed, often stated it, it is very important, it is positive, but I feel that the debate that has been here today is that there is some kind of cross-circuracy in the administrations of a special discussion or other matter, to me, it is completely misunderstandingd. [[Pointed out: Didn't you notice?]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u26	Mr. President. I've been here many times, and I've lost a very perturbing discussion with the highest level. Secretary of finance on the status of the savings funds and the government policy on their affairs. Even so many times I have been assured of my supreme potential. Governments work hard to rebuild the savings fund and make sure that they remain an active force in a financial market. Now, however, three savings have been crushed up and tailed by three business banks. It has all followed the same pattern, it has occurred precisely when investors have shown interest in and saw business opportunities in the savings fund. As a result, it will be very difficult to build the savings system because it was the back of the spine. There are many things that happen with this. First of all, a government fund loses an important property that it has in the savings, at least it loses. Second, the important team is lost in the rural communities in a country that has been very supportive of the savings. Third, the shoulders are being tightened even more toward our consumer necks because the savings were all there to become the only antidote to the growth policy of the big banks. I'll remember it for the highest. Secretary of finance recently published a financial stability report from the Federal Bank. It contained an overview of interest between banks in Iceland and many other European countries and Iceland, the largest growth difference in the country. In effect, the interest of the Icelandic bank could be called just a robbery on a global scale. I'm asking the highest. Financial Minister: Has the government's policy in the affairs of the savings fund been completely shipwrecked?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u27	Mr. President. There are three reasons why I would have liked to see the savings system grow stronger and the savings that have just been entering a business bank in recent years. First of all, because the state has been and is a stock owner in these banks, it has directed financial interests because the savings are successful and that they are strengthened and strengthened. Second, the reason is why. A senator mentions and is competitively hurt by the fact that this system has been an excellent antidote to the big business banks. Third, when you look at the distribution of branches, it is so clear that the savings have been an important unit in the country's construction, creating work and activities that have been important to you. These three were sewn together, this close to business, and a counterweight to the potential of big banks that really matter. However, the Bank Management Board conducts the holding of property, and the UN is monitoring this activity. Sadly, these units have not recovered. I've been hearing for a long time that private people have been interested in entering the savings system, putting on the set up of new savings, buying stock money in those which are already for, etc., but the private enterprise has been extremely suspended, and little has happened for a very long time. Then, too, let us appreciate what this competition really is like if we examine the power of capitalism. For example, the savings fund, at least, has its own financial resources, at least. as it was at the end of the New Year, in the range of 4◯5 billion. Compare that with the bank's own money, I'm just talking about the Lands Bank, which was about 250 billion before the last interest paid was set - 250 billion versus the total resources of all the savings up to 4How5 billion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We'll see what financial strength is huge, and the advantage against the savings system in the business banking system is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u28	Mr. President. V.E.G. Secretary of finance understands the importance of the savings in exactly the same way I do. Therefore, I must express my sadness that the government has not acted in harmony with this understanding. It is simply a matter of fact that the savings system is almost dropped on duty. Secretary of finance. It's a fact that, under the highest position. The Prime Ministers of the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, who has many savings in his district, are in effect failing these days. V.E.G. A minister blames the private initiative and says it was impregnablely hovering. It is true that after the collapse of the bank, men have not had much faith in the savings system for a long time. But this belief was to grow up, and in three cases, investors who had capitalized, foreign and foreign, were prepared to put into the savings and to see a business opportunity, but they did not because they found the bills to be quite different. Then I ask the highest. Secretary of the budget: Who was on the watch? Isn't the F.O.D. in this country? Where was it? [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Minister also: What about the remaining four? What is his view of their future? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u29	Mr. President. My position is expressed in my first speech here, that I value the competition of a financial market that there's some objection to big business banks. It means that it would be good for the savings system to recover and those savings would survive. What was missing in this inquiry from why. A senator pointed to me: Wait, what exactly was to be done? You can't both say that I have a change in the Bank Office trying to take over the bank business, which must not happen at all, and say in the word, "Bjarni, you should do something and act as you would have taken over the Bank Office and our share in the savings. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] The same is really true for SEC. In the second word, we can say that it is to be independent, well financed, and make professional decisions than in the second: The minister must interrupt the FDA when he is not acting in the way of achieving the objective of the government. [[Up front.]] What is missing into this entry from the time being. A senator is exactly what he would have done. Would he have put tax money behind the problem? Would he have been willing to raise up stocks in savings, which he later found to be weak? [[The president calls.]] What exactly would he do? We have simply set up a structure where professional surveillance is in the FEC and property department is at the Bank Office. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then you can't come to me and say, "Bjarni, present yourself to these agents who are supposed to be independent. " [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u30	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister in a case that I noticed in the newspaper of News this morning, where women mentioned in this case have been persecuted by the chasers, who I think is, in fact, way, far too comforting to say about the matter. It often seems that much has to be done before a restraining order can be obtained, and even if it is available, the system is unable to cope with the problem. Then I quote Kashlight's notice a few months ago, even a year ago, which was a very good part of a woman who had been greatly persecuted by someone, whether it was an ex-mate, I can't remember, and the failure was complete. Actually, even if the subject was sentenced to a restraining order, it was not relevant. The newspaper discusses two issues and quotes the chief police officer as saying that the situation is complex. Yes, it is. He says, with President's permission: If there's no restraining order, there's nothing against being outside the house or calling. There must then be some degree to evaluate it as a violation of privacy. There's only this lawamama. How's it going? That's why I want to ask the highest. Ministers whether these issues are considered in the Ministry and whether they feel that any action and even change the law is needed to better control this group and protect those who are persecuted, whether they are former members of the local community, or others who are obsessed with the brain to persecute.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u31	V.E.G. President. I have to admit, I haven't seen that story as a boy. A senator quotes from his case, yet she is referring to a group that is sensitive and that is always valid. Of course, I can't express myself about unique matters. If you are asking that question, there is no special review now because of this particular group of subjects. However, the State Department of State and the rest of this group, both restraining and violating women in general, consistently reviews the need and how to change things. Often it is also a question of how the law is being carried out. There has also been some development. We've seen it, e.g. If we look at the manager of the city of Reykjavík, that increased power or emphasis is being placed on a particular type of offense, and we can say that they will always get better into the pitch, so this is also a question of a matter placed in a particular foreground. I can agree with that with what. paritaprevir Pétursdóttir's reaction to this matter is that there is good reason for us to consider it. I suppose we will. I have not made a decision at the next council exactly which case I put a special focus on in this case, but it may well be that we see something that has to do with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u32	Thank you very much. Minister for her answers. I'm pretty happy with them. I was not referring to anything so specific but, at times, such matters always come from time to time in the news, and I think there is every reason why this should be examined. I'm also wondering, and I don't think it's that way now, whether there's any way to invite people of the past -- I wish we'd find a word other than chasers, I don't think it's good - psychology or any help, whether it could be the cheapest and simplest way in many cases, and whether the bacteria would offer something like that today to work out their own business. In such a situation, a person must feel as uncomfortable as those who suffer because he or she is not doing what he is doing if he is in full control and is in good spiritual balance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u33	A respectable president. There was so much trouble in the side room that I couldn't quite hear the beginning of the second speech each. Senator. I'd like to add what I said earlier, I'd say why. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason has arranged for a bill at the council, and this is for the treatment of the General Commission. There is a way of considering a restraining order that we have considered only in the Ministry. I don't think it's the end of the shot that the committee will look into something further. I think it's normal that the Ministry also does, and see if there are any factors that would be involved in promoting the response to this series of offenses, to which it is answered. Then, with regard to help with dodoers. I can hardly express myself about it here from this chair right now how best to go into it. We know that this is a very sensitive group of subjects that are difficult to deal with. Of course, we must always try to be sure that all requests are faithful. Other than that, I can't express myself about it at this point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u34	President. A few weeks ago, I addressed a petition to the Department of Social Affairs for financial support in bankruptcy. Happily, she confirmed that the next autumn law should finally be revised. After that, I have been asked about laws that were also agreed on and reduced deadlines for bankruptcy. They were to be revised in December 2014. By the end of the year, Konráðsdóttir, the daughter of Conspira, chairman of the General Commission, had learned that the law of two years of expiration was still in effect, and it did not seem necessary to confirm it. But, hey. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Consley's Konráðsdóttir concluded this with the permission of the president: However, the Commission aims to review these laws as required in the provisional agreement and that the General and Education Committee should formally be presented to the Ministry's conduct. Now, I'd like to ask the minister because nothing has happened: Will the fall council propose to tie this up for another year or what? While the Ministry says it's in effect, people don't feel quite strongly about what is really true. Some say: Is it really possible to resolve all of this all at once? [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the Minister about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u35	A respectable president. This was expected when these laws were passed, as it were. A senator noted that within four years, it would be necessary to consider whether it would be necessary to change the view that an expiration date was two years, as is now set at 165 C.E. Passion layers. The Department of Internal Affairs went through this last fall, along with the Ministry of Health whether there was any need to make some adjustments and to write a letter to the court. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. The Ministry concluded that there is no need to make changes. In fact, it was also stated under the debate of the prime minister of last autumn that an expiration date was two years. This is in harmony with the principle. It doesn't have to be confirmed. That is until the law will be changed in the future. Of course, if people want to change the law, they can do so by presenting a legal bill as we know it. There's no plan to do that. There's a two-year sentence on the bankruptcy laws. He's standing. That's not the point of changing it. The Ministry has gone through this and concluded that there is nothing more to be done. There is no plan at the State Department to change this and to go back with this, but there is a two-year expiration date.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u36	A respectable president. Thank you very much. The Minister is very much concerned with the answer. I think it matters because people have been insecure and have not completely understood it, saying: "It's a preliminary principle, about reevaluating it, or what's going on? Now, the minister has clearly declared that he does not stand to change this law, and if it is to be done by a change of law, it must take time, and then be done in advance. I welcome this cloudless statement from the Minister. At any rate, I can answer those who have asked me, pointing them to the minister's declaration. I appreciate the answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u37	A respectable president. There's nothing special about this, but I think it's good that this question came up so that it could be answered clearly and there's no doubt about what is in these topics. Sometimes when we're changing, people can get a little confused about these preliminary rules, as we know. This is very clear, and it is clear on our part.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u38	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees on the bill to the final budget for 2013. A financial committee was a joint member of this committee, and all members of the budget are signing this agreement. What a joy it is to be able to resolve a case from the Council in great peace! I'd just like to point this out at the beginning of April 27, two months ago, the matter was ready and settled from the budget board. Since it has been two months ago, how the Senate work has been going on over the past few weeks is very sad. This is one of the matters that must come as soon as possible through the council after the financial committee has discussed it because it will have to be closed together with a financial bill for that year. A financial committee has discussed the bill at two meetings since its arrival on February 18th. and the Committee called in representatives of the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs. The purpose of the bill is to confirm the state account of 2013 by standard format. The bill presents the results of the remaining documents and the excess in government funds by 2013 to the General Assembly. The bill includes two legal branches, as well as some validating branches. On one hand it is proposed that the funds be altered because of a variation to government income, i.e. Dissociating from the budget and funding of the budget in terms of the income sector, however, proposals were made for subsidies on the state of budgets by the end of 2013. The Committee has noted that the bill has never been submitted concomitantly with a government account, as is stated at 45 C.E. track No. 88/1997, the state's income, that it should be done. Next, a bill arrived in 2011, which was submitted about four months later than a government bill for the same year. The bill was now submitted on February 3, i.e. About seven months after billing 2013. Indicative of the dissension of the state's income, a total of the provisions for the increase of budgets is done by over 1 billion at the base of the management database, where collections were found to exceed the expected levels. The 2013 total clearances included more than 595 billion for the up payment of citizens, which included over 592 billion expenses, i.e. or more than 3 billion dollars. ... belowthefinals. The financial breakdown proposals are aimed at bringing down an overall external charge of less than 10 billion over products. In this way, the net contains about 13 billion dollars. the amount of fees submitted to move to the next year. The State's budget does not show whether or not to alter the legal rights of the institutions in such cases when the state's income is booked and found to be nonprofit. This practice has developed to change the legal rights afterwards, into the final budget laws in line with the dissociation of the account from the schedule. A financial committee has promoted the adjustment of the arrangement of state income abnormalities. This involves eliminating market income. So they took only on the income side of the budget, but instead they would make a government contribution on the side of the pay to those who had previously received market incomes. The majority of the committee gave a bill during the last assembly, which was designed to eliminate the total income. In connection with the official financial bill now being discussed at the council, however, it seems, as a result, that there is no intention of becoming law at this council, the market budget will be revised. Suggested at 2 st. Most of the principles that have been applied for years and that are listed on page 6 are the bill on the budget's position at the end of 2013. 77 in comment on the bill. These include the closing of social security, interest fees, pension bonds, and other factors that do not meet standard management costs. For bank collapse, it was common to have a long - standing license between the years, almost no matter how high they were. In recent years, the change has become that the Ministry of Economics adds up to the loss of the budget of more than 10% of the year's budget. There are several examples in the bill. In contrast, remaining stock costs and maintenance are usually transported within years. A respectable president. I call attention to the fact that there is too much work to be done on the budget of the year and then it is either a very large amount of change or a high cost to the next year. An example is carried out at the Generality, the Nurse Home of Huldunda, and a participation in the book Mass. It is very serious that such projects, which are actually a single - trade project, are so much out of proportion as shown in the Committee. It is necessary to commend those who do well that they are left over and that they are even far more than plans were made. This applies to storage rooms and other teams. There must be additional discipline in terms of government matters, on making the budget more practical, and on the basis that expenses are comparable to the sources decided by the budget, i.e. Total body. In the bill, there's a slight discrepancy on two teams. Comments on the bill show that there are discrepancies between the bill and the bill on two sides. On the one hand, airfields and flying history services and the other. In addition, the bill announces that measures have been made to correct the miscalculation in the state account for 2014. A financial committee does not suggest a change in the bill, despite the examples I have considered, but it suggests that the Ministry of Economics and Economic Affairs is preconceived to correct the limitations mentioned in the Commission opinion. Therefore, the budget suggests that the bill will be passed on as a matter of fact. The movers to this committee party with me are all members of the Parliament who are members of the budget board. Councilmen Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson, vice president of the Committee, Oddný new G. Harðardóttir, 2nd President of the Fundament Committee, Ásmundur Daðason Dadadson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Bryynhildur of St. Pétursdóttir's daughter, Haraldur Benediktsson, and Karl Garðarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u39	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I want to be happy like what's happened. A member of the council of the United States has met. It's not very common to have a financial committee on a committee party, but it's a good thing that this bill came along. But I'd like to ask why. A senator whether it agrees with me in that the 2013 final budget confirms the 2013 state bill is in fact a fine testimony to the quality of the EEA's Government and the Independence Party replaced the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. Does it not agree with me that this is exactly a fine witness to the milestones of the 2013 budget and the 2013 budget? Is it not, in fact, a remarkable conclusion, and especially in view of the fact that when the head of the districts and the proselytists approached them, the members of the administrations spoke thus of the state's financial status as if it were all part of a coal country? In fact, there is a negative situation of 700 million, while budgets for 2013 had assumed a negative status of 3.7 billion. In reality, the budget was better than the budget that had been planned than the financial contributions adopted by the administrative sector mentioned that there would be a negative situation of 19.7 billion. These are statistics. I just reiterate my question, is it? The Senator wouldn't agree with me that the 2013 state bill and the 2013 final budget are good testimony to the fact that the government of Sigmundur Davíð Gunuga, son of Gunnlaugsson, took on good living?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u40	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for this inquiry. I'm gonna take this opportunity and thank you for your cooperation with the budget board. The work of a financial committee is based solely on professional terms, and politics is rarely allowed in front of the door when a financial committee is working. This committee shows how close a financial committee is and how much and a good work is being done inside, since all committees are aware that the State's economy is being covered. The Senator here will review whether these last financial laws are not examples of the quality of this government's population after the election. Yes, you can say that, but the senator knows as well as the one here said to establish an economist group and start cutting down the Union's campaign supply and left greener for the 2013 elections. There was a lot of effort, I admit it. A man wasn't quite the cutest girl at the dance, a respectable president, the first year when we had to redress all the resources that had been promised around the country. We had to cancel our contracts, and we had to retract the funds and so on. But this work also brought us the results of our first budget that Kingdom funds could at last be given with rest. We know exactly how it was here in the past, the government of the worker who sat before this government, had begun to cut down the whole health system, the financial resources to the Land Hospital, to a number of other delicate issues that the present government is better able to compensate for. What a joy it is to be able to meet the needs of both the institutions and the people of the land with the added success of the government! Prime Ministers of the Sigmundur of Davíð the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnla.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u41	Mr. President. Now it is that the plan for investment, which I expect to do, is what it is. One senator, who testified that a new government cut down, was largely passed in 2013, but the cutout took place in 2014. Now we're talking about the situation as it was in 2013, and as it turned out, income was reduced, hunting costs were dropped, and the cost of extra tax was set back in the stock market as the public paid them back to 7%. Of course, it was about the money, but the situation is that good. Some now say: Yes, because there are so many irregular teams in there, we got 25 billion because of the profit money they didn't count on even if it had been possible to see. In contrast, 20 billion were taken on account of tax requirements. It was positive and negative, of course, zeroing out the irregular joints. Anion bank makes a fine analysis of this position and points out that if we remove the irregularity of the team in 2013, the result is also up to 9 billion that is very effective because in 2009, if we take away irregular forces, there was a negative score of 108 billion. True, cutting and raising were necessary. That's what I'm talking about. A senator won't agree with me that there was a turning point? There we were able to see land and plan for the future after a major economic collapse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u42	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. It may have been possible that the zero point was reached, it can only be, since the last government had cut everything into place. I checked the medical system earlier. It had been cut down legal pay for pensions and disability, entered into reforms. Yes, yes, I suppose there was no more to be cut off when the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir left power. It may well be that there was this zero point we talk about that needs to be running the state. But it was elections 2013, and it was replaced by government, and this government has certainly shown that it has the best interests of the people of the land. It speaks of the government as surrendering taxes. A lot of this tax as bad as any. paritaprevir Oddný Harðardóttir passed over here was in that it was actually a single-change tax, you might say. It was possible, too, for a government of the demands, to eliminate him over a period of years, so we were actually just following in the footsteps of the former government. I hope we don't need to get further criticism that this government has followed the previous government in making a decision about taxation, but the government that is now in charge of reducing taxes further. It is known that by decreasing taxes, further income enters the state's budget, and that is, as the taxes are lower, they do not create the moral problem that results from a higher tax gain, to cheat on taxes. The future is bright, as an example. The financial committee is on this committee's list, and so I'm delighted because the entire government situation was by the payment of its final budget 2012, which actually shows what the government and the advanced government groups had little faith in terms of government budgets of 2012. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u43	President wants to ask why. Senators saving a lot of shit. Such criticism can well be expressed without resorting to big words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u44	Mr. President. Thank you very much. A president for evading the Presidential sleazy word by putting it into question. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir. She is the only person who sits at this Assembly Hall, who acts in the mouth of a national scandal, and directly accuses members of other classes of medicine to work consciously against the interests of the nation. That's why it is. A senator finds it so difficult to gain the respect of other senators. However, there were reports in the discussions that took place earlier. Hv. A senator agreed, asking that the current government had taken a good place. It's got a why. A senator never did before, but that, of course, is a fact. When you look at the government account, you can see that the results of last year were quite good. Of course, it was also because a new government was taking steps to cut down, that is correct, and yet it shows how well the last government was working. When you compare this account with the 2013 previous ones, it turns out that in five years the recovery has continued to improve from year to year. It was nearly 120 billion dollars in 2013. Better than in 2009. Doesn't count why. A senator that the master of the crew has done a great job in this? I had a few technical questions for what? A member of Congress, which is the nature of the word, cannot be addressed to it a perfunctory place. She always crosses all boundaries, so I'm going to make it wait for my second speech.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u45	A respectable president. I am very interested in knowing what I said here in a previous answer that led me to be careful with my words. It was the sentence as a dog. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson said himself, about the master of the crew? [[Up front.]] I didn't speak in any way in the previous year about treason like a man. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, but this council job has arrived somewhere I just can't figure out how to handle the real thing. This is where I object, answer the questions of the council, and I'm asked to take care of my words. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson comes in for a speech chair talking about treason, etc. I didn't say a word about treason, not a word. It's a different game here in this speech chair, but we can see exactly how the members of the United States, who have spoken after me, need to be commended for the work of the former government. They come up here and kiss themselves, especially why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson says there's been a good farm here. Of course, I rejoice over the way the government is going, but let's also see that it was the forward party that fought here all the last terms against Icesave. A respectable president. I don't know how the state affairs would have been required and the band's wish and the left greens become reality, that all the people and the taxpayers would have had to take over the Icesave rock, I don't know how we were doing them, a respectable President. Maybe in the same place the Greeks don't know, maybe not because we're so lucky to have our own currency and we're not in the Euro Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u46	The president wants to cancel every argument, he listened carefully to the speech of each one. The senator, who feels that it did not hide any treason, has come to pass. The president simply, in the spirit of a good council, wants to encourage the big words in a general way and is therefore not particularly directed. 4th, including Reykv.. n. This is a general exhortation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u47	I'm in a mood under this speech. The President of the Parliament. He has no particular reason to talk to me about big talk when he's here almost without question...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u48	The president was saying that he was not doing otherwise. Hv. A senator has not spoken in a way here today that there is no basis for this to be clear on the part of a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u49	V.E.G. The president makes it almost empty when it comes to it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir here speaks of the government of demandsors. This involves an accusation that the former government has taken over foreign interests. V.E.G. A president may face a situation that might be more harsh, but he might almost strike a bell on the senator who stands here. Mr. President. I was going to come here to have a wording about certain things in this fine piece of paper. A senator had history before, but it is very difficult to have a perfunctory place at the highest level of words. President. I take it as a burden for treason or close to it at the moment. A senator keeps talking about the government of demands. In it there is no doubt about the fact that the previous government has carried out the trades of foreign demands. In that respect, I say "what." A senator should look closer to himself. It should consider how the media are beginning to deal with the results of the contract campaign in London between the representatives of the son of Shimmer Gunnlaugsson Gunoug. Prime Minister, and demands. Darbjörn Þórðarson, one of those who are concerned about financial matters, speaks of the intense joy of demands, and asks what causes the joy of the demands. The question is, is it because they got such a good deal? This should be why. A senator might ask himself rather than accuse others of treason. I'm sorry to have to spend this time on this, but if it's the best. A president doesn't have a reputation to put into his head. A senator, that's what I'm gonna do. I'm not gonna sit on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u50	The president would like to see this discussion not to be taken lightly. The president simply wanted to make an issue that he wanted to maintain good order and point to a talk. paritaprevir In fact, Vigdís, the daughter of Hauksdóttir earlier, feels that he has tried to resolve the matter in a reasonable, reasonable way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u51	A respectable president. I'm not going to ask for the word afterwards, and I'm going to argue, but I'm going to say it here in this counter: I never said that this was the last term of treason. Never. I never said there was a plot here, so what? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson will be answered here once and for all. He's trying to make me disloyal, he's about it, it's been the same thing over in 2009 at the United States since I sat down at the council. The media grew bigger in Reykjavík than the 2013 election United States, and so on, I see it. It's going to hurt. A respectable president. Too bad. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson is not on the Committee to Presidency, for he also wants to conduct the council, not enough of the solidness of the Conspiracy of losing the last election, which is still trying to rule two years later, but wanting to be cool. paritaprevir Össur's Osse de Pérdinsson is also the head of the council. He's hurt, the truth, I know but I, as a senator, have never spared the truth here in this house. Never. Of course, it is quite unpleasant, and it is difficult for members of the United States to face this today, when treaties with demands are at docks, to establish to each government the highest level. The prime minister of the Sigmunds of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, has done so. The press is referred to here as bringing news that there is something special going on with the demands. A respectable president. I don't think Facebook is such a good idea. paritaprevir The hastes of Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson are many, not at all. [[...Food magazine.]] And, yes, the senator points to the News magazine, right, we know exactly how it all is prepared. A respectable president. I admit this debate has fallen on a pretty sour level, so that's why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u52	Mr. President. It is a very special thing to arrive here in a talk about the final financial law after that exchange that has taken place here. To be honest, Mr President, I'm sure I'll be right back. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir spoke of the management of the demands and made a comment at the highest level. President. [[Up front.]] It surprised me, but maybe it shouldn't have, to the why. A senator did not understand why she was being asked to act in a more favorable way. Hv. A senator didn't realize that, that's a big deal. A respectable president. This is a final budget that confirms the State account of 2013. And as we have seen here, the numbers show, and what. The chairman of a judicial committee has confirmed in a special answer that the government of Sigmundur the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson Gunal took up good living, for although the figures showed it, the executives of the administrations did not want to admit it, but here it stands in black form. This result was achieved after a financial collapse, a major economic collapse, and when the United States government and the left greens faced completely unprecedented conditions. In fact, this is due to the economic misdemeanors of the Agency in the past and of the Independence Party. In just four years, the left government was able to reverse this situation. The action had to be taken that was not popular, of course, had to be cut down, but it also took to earn money. This mixed route had gone, and it had results. And because of what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir spoke of the health system back then, he was certainly a delicate system, and he went into the crisis because the quality had failed to return to the health system. When it had to be cut down or held in such a system as all other government expenses, the consequences were disastrous. In 2012, however, the left government ceased to cut down the health system and, fortunately, managed to restore by means of budget 2013. And now more is needed when the government's budget is in such a place as it is in 2015. How fine it would be if the right government could take advantage of this great left government success to promote the welfare and health systems, the educational systems, and the general support of the welfare system that needs to be supported by the economic collapse! President. Although I do not want to be bitter in this chair, it was that way. Residents and the Independence Party during the last term were, I allow myself to say, like a grizzling heel after the government, when she was cleaning up a financial crash and really made it difficult for us, but the results were quite successful. In my answer to the chairman of the legal committee, I quoted Market Points from Anion Bank, which was published on August 18, 2014. It says, with the permission of a president: The 2013 State account was recently published and is far better off than expected by the State Fund. Then we can see how all of this worked out. In 2013, when the new administrative point took over, he cried out to the wolf, the wolf, saying that there was a steaming ruin here and that there was more to be cut down. And as soon as they said so, they lost their income, both the fishing costs and the worth of extra tax in travel. Yet, it was quite clear that the cost of a maintenance tax was due to be up 14% on September 1, 2013, that the companies had anticipated an increase in its prices. There was no reason to keep the values tax, so foreign tourists did not pay worth taxes, consumer tax from hotel service in the same proportion as the public pays for necessities, food and energy. So it was a strange arrangement. V.E.G. The Minister of Industrial and Business came here for the inquiry from what happened. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon confirmed that the host and hotel companies had anticipated this rise in their records, and there was no reason to take this off. And in spite of that price, the number of tourists increased more than ever. That's the way it was. President. I would like to use my time in my first speech to review some points from a publication on the state culture published in the autumn of 2012 that shows the turning point. Looking at these turning points, we wanted to make use of the results of building up a society in the spirit of superiors, in the spirit of righteousness, and in the spirit of equality. Unfortunately, we did not get, as many times have been said here in this hall, there course. There were other categories elected to do this, unfortunately, I'll say. What was to be done when the country was observed and the future was organized to improve the interests of a family. This was done by a plan to extend the birthworm for a year, something the right government decided to take back. This, however, provided coercists as a very important step as having a table to go that way. The right management would rather lower the fishing costs and the worthy tax in foreign tourists. Another thing we did was an increase of 30% in child reforms, or we assumed that the increase would be 30%, that was in our program. It was because everywhere, all the analysis showed that the families that were the worst in the fall of 2012 or during 2012 were children's families. It didn't matter whether they were children who owed their homes or were trying to get a roof over their heads or were tenants, that group was the worst, and that's why they had to turn money to him at the first opportunity they had to do so. On the other hand, the right government, in 2014's budget, said that she wanted to cover this increase in 2013, which she did by not culminating it, and of course it is a cutback. In an operation to soften the rate of increase in assessment, a billion were introduced in child reforms, but at the time of this date, even the real value was not reached and the General Assembly agreed for 2013. Thus, they could not be referred to as a routine. Then, too, the criteria were changed so that child reforms are now affecting 200 of yours. K. in a person who is naturally ashamedly low. Child damages begin to decline as soon as your income is 200 thoust. K. and when there's 500 of you. K. they fall down. So this is not in the spirit of child - reform thinking, such as the Norwegian communities put it up, since the idea is that child support is a tax rate to balance the status of a child's family. In most Norwegian countries, child abuse is inaccessible, but we are far from there. But there we should be heading, and that was the thought of the step taken in 2013. What was important for us to do in order to build up our welfare services properly, although we have begun to give back in the health system as I said before, in fact, in the education system, too, the high school system, was gaining increased income from the resources. It was of utmost importance to a nation in our position and to our income from our resources. Hence, during the last term, a hunting bill was approved, which raised considerably and was gradually to increase. The structure has certainly lived up to that rise. And when we were here revising our fishing fees in 2013, we arrived at the government stand with a change in proposal to keep the money than to give less productions, and that was probably done, but those who could certainly pay higher fishing fees would. It is important for us to receive direct income from our resources. But somehow it seems that the government that now doesn't work out and wants things to get complicated, so it's politicians who decide what it's paying for the resource it uses. The plan of investment was nearly complete, but not completely complete, but what mattered was the core projects, it was contributions to the application programs, which were actually set up in 2013 but were cut down in 2014 by 75%. It is the right-hand policy, it is very clear in this emphasis on the national parish program. True, when the bill was introduced in 2014, it should be only 15 million. K. But with a change, it turned out to be 115 million. K. The same thing happened on the bill before 2015, and it was again only 15 million. K. These are the basics of right men. A respectable president. We agree with that when the right government speaks of a high priority in reducing debt, it is of great importance to the debt paid by the people. Actually, there are no visible plans to reduce names unless we only sell a possession share in the Lands Bank that isn't in sight, and then to have a lower currency reserve and then it's now spoken of the stable tax and we really hope it will be the key to reducing debt, not to go to some pet project right before elections and extra filing. But it's very important to pay off your debts, and I agree. A respectable president. I'm not going to have this speech much longer. Again, I'd like to say that this paper we're discussing right now, the final budget, which is a confirmation of the 2013 state account, is a good testimony to what the situation was like when the right government began. Every year we had made a significant contribution, and we had assumed in our plans that he would become a significant member of this average period as well. However, it has been found that the recovery rate is negligible and in the budgets presented in the budget presented here for the council unsupervised, it will also show that the right management plan will be reduced, significantly smaller than during the last term. In some ways it is because it is their priority or has been here to reduce the tax and payment of those who truly depend on paying taxes and paying expenses, and the right government also feels important to give a small discount on the nation's resources rather than to accept when it comes to the welfare system. The State budget estimates an operation of 5.5 billion for the next four years, and of course, it is very difficult to undergo such cuts that have endured such cuts, such as during the last term and were inevitable. Now, however, we have a choice, and our right government chooses to continue cutting down about 1◯1.5% for the next four years. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u53	Mr. President. I also plan to participate in this discussion about the final budget for 2013. It's always funny to discuss maybe old cases, and in itself, it's not unusual to them when people deal with the times when government changes take place, that people want their fair credit for the work they've suggested, and I think it applies to all categories. I was sorry for the way the discussion began here, and I think it is extremely difficult and can resent the fact that people are shocked to walk the interests of foreign demands but do not have the interests of the people of the land, i.e. Icelanders, because that's what they said here. Hv. The chairman of the legal committee also said that the current government was concerned with the interests of the people of the land and was likely to suggest that those who lived before them did not. I don't think that a former government did it on its own, how and how well it really worked, slowly, to get up. Of course, there are people in the country who are behind them. It is natural for a government at any given time that is behind people who have to live by the decisions made. Happily, the people took an active part in our efforts the years after a crash to help them and took on various burdens because the land was almost bankrupt. It is often true when it comes to the tax issues involved that the decisions made by the former government are being carried out. I would have liked to see it as often as possible, but not just sometimes, for it is perhaps what appears to a person in the decisions taken after the administration has taken place, that some things are taken away if convenient and fits into some direction, and that is said that this is because it has been temporarily set. But other policies and decisions may not be as convenient as they are not followed, i.e. who were taken from their former government. There is no secrecy in accepting a better farm than expected, and this is reflected, among other things, in the financial program proposed by the current financial minister. There you can find a column that shows it quite well. That's why I say, without being involved in anything about it, that nothing unusual is about it, because a very difficult time went into hand after the crash, that people would at least want their share in it, but not that they did not work for the people. At least I don't want to. Of course it's something that's done and done. We have made clear certain comments and such, and nothing unusual when we're taking something together later that we're having a common opinion. However, we make comments to many things. We have been able to do so and to speak up on a budgetary committee to be united in trying to correct and improve the way decisions are made. Therefore, I am surprised and disappointed, and I believe no more than most of the parts agree with me, that the decisions taken and entered the council the other day regarding such matters as road, infrastructure, and other matters have been overlooked by both the chairman and the vice president of the legal committee and the transport authorities involved. I don't think it's a good government any more than anything, and I'm critical of it. And because we're always talking about trying to make things better, I think that's one of the things we don't want to be done in this way. Of course, it will come to the budget that the current chairman and vice president of the budget committee have spoken immensely of not being used in the way that has been done for decades, unfortunately, and I agree with it. I don't think we should, and I hope we don't have to face these things often. But what may be critical of our opinion is the way things are moved. There is no need for this journal, to be able as soon as things happen, but not to correct the team many months later, whether it is a deposit, a fee, or something like that, and even the final budget is used in some way as a kind of financial aid, because it is being corrected, corrected, corrected, corrected, reduced, and affected. I think that's one of the things we want to change. Also, it may be wondered that public funds that have been discussed are making this happen with the last changes, i.e. If they pass through which we are concerned and can affect, i.e. what is stated in the last financial law, because here we can take this into a committee and discuss and make comments, but we can't be the law on public finances. That's one of the things we've been wondering about, i.e. The coverage. That's not the subject, it's actually just reported on a budget committee, but it's not discussed at the council. I am concerned that if this change occurs, my power will be removed too soon. In fact, there are about a thousand entries under which we must give up, i.e. That's what we're talking about. That is one of the things we should discuss with others. Do we want it to be that way or in some way different? It is quite safe, because now the public financial bill is in here, wondering what the changes and effects are. in the context of the final budget. This particular bill to the final budget contains several examples. There is a lack of time and real - time access to financial resources, and it is also taking over in a number of teams that follow - ups and funds are not respected. It is shocking that we are faced with this kind of effort, consciously, and I want to say the source of a minister and adviser at any given time. If that wasn't done, I guess the team wouldn't be getting ahead. I've only criticized, even though I'm talking about our not discussing the final budget in this way to the future, that the bill and the budgets and how it's presented are not accessible. For example, if you want to read something in the end of page 2 of this leaflet. 121 of the final budget and compare it with page 12. 28 Then it does not reveal the amount suggested to be delivered but simply comes to a final position, and you do not really know whether the budget will be submitted that will appear in the final column, but you will see only the final result. This is inaccessible, and that is one of the things we should discuss. We need to approach it in this way, if it becomes in any form, that we keep discussing it, how we can make it easier for us not only to sit on a budget, and, of course, get considerable publicity about understanding it, but to other members of the council and others who want to take the time to read it. In addition, it is not particularly easy for the council to realize, for example, that the text involved in the articles may not be very clear regarding the budgets suggested to move across from year to year. For example, we do not have an overview of an incomplete task, and then we know that year after year both the plus and the minus are transferred from year to year on the same joints, and we may not have an explanation. Because I've been talking a lot about the road making it, it's over 1.8 billion on the Vega project, and you wonder if it didn't have to appear in text, or anywhere else, any project that was impossible to go on and was postponed, whether there are many projects behind this, or how it is. Similarly, as shown in a tax account, roadmaking's own money is negative because there is a conflict between consulting how to handle it. It is also one of those things that is really unacceptable to hang inside as such. On page 18. For example, 38 is suggested to cut down the strength of innovation companies, and that is not logical, just saying that a limp is 105 million. This is not shown in the state account why it is, and as we know, it is forbidden to make a higher budget than to show in the budget. So we might ask: " Why were there more strength given than the financial rights or sources allowed? But then it's canceled, and then with what warrant? That's part of what's worth asking about. Because I talked about keeping together, there's all the government activity on different financial numbers. The road is one way, and other teams underneath are in the sub-numbers. As I said before with the project and the rest, this also forms part of a better fund because it is postponed, and then comes on the other side of the budget to do this or to the other, but it has not been accomplished for some reason. We've talked a lot about shark safety and snowstorm on highways, where plans have been kept to a minimum all too many years. The nature of the case is down to a billion people who get negative from the Roadmaker. Some have said that they do not understand why this is the best way to plan it. This may be due to some of the fact that the road structure, such as other institutions, is confined to the narrow position of not having as high a frame as it would need, and because it is always trying to estimate everything to a minimum, we don't know whether winters will get wet or whether much will be iced, because a huge part of it is also created as a result of hibernation. It's gone from bad to worse. We received an explanation of this in a financial committee of salts purchased, but it did not prove to be good enough, etc. All of this costs money. For example, all salt was in the land, so that there are many things that are not anticipated. So much snow in winter has been the result of overworking plans. If we draw everything together at the Vega program, as shown in the summary, we're plus 754 million. K. This is because of the continuation of performances. The Hall at the service is over 900 million. A.K., to strengthen the Marketing Authorisation Holder and ferry 266, domestic flight 15 and so on, but the other is such a big number, that will be the result. But what I'm first to criticize is not just these details but that the explanations are not there. If you wanted to look through this year from year to year, ask yourself, " What projects or service or something wasn't provided, didn't follow, or passed out, then you can't read about it, and I think it's very painful. ' A respectable president. This may have been going on to some particular teams because, as mentioned earlier, this was being done in conjunction with a government account but has failed to succeed in this process, and it may have been used in part as amendments and in some areas not to be done. It was also mentioned, and only traced earlier to the location where we were moving around earlier, i.e. between governments, the market points for Arion banks are confirmed in the current financial program and, in particular, is being maintained. But for the rest, I think I'll take only an example of a non-employment insurance fund because it's supposed to be a commitment. It shows the difference, not on a head chair, but the difference. There are a number of such cases. I asked a minister in my speech, when he finally gave the bill, because we took it up on the committee before it was spoken of, about the surgeon of the land and the Public Health Fund on page. 76, which was attributed to the committee's opinion of why the difference is. The differences are because the metaphysics of the legislature are made up of a surgeon, yet they are a special financial body. I don't think the general senator realizes this. So there's a question about how detailed people want to get into things, but I think the senators do too little of sitting over and going into budgets, money loans, and final budgets. I think it would be very important, and I would explain a few things to the members of the council who are not on a budget or an economic and business committee, but they go a little bit on the income side. I want to end my case by saying that the government of the first and the one now sitting, fortunately, both of them are about to lower the debt of state. This is shown in a publication that was followed and published in the fall of 2012, Kingdom Policy and National Economic Program. It specifically states, allowing the president: Therefore, once the total balance has been reached, it will continue to take priority. But we face the fact that there are very different methods used by the present government and the former one.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u54	Mr. President. I'd like to begin by saying that I Bjarkey Olsen. Gunnarsdóttir It's funny to have a discussion about the final budget in what she called this unique atmosphere of this discussion, but what can be expected when. The chairman of the budget committee has discussed two political parties to have made a conscious effort to take foreign interests against the interests of the Icelandic nation? In such a situation, it is very difficult to have intelligent discussions. But, hey. Of course, the chairman of the legal committee is in charge of the level for this discussion. I found many of the interesting things to be true. A senator said, especially when it comes to clarity and transparency of the budget bill. There I feel that people have not learned from the discussions of the past, perhaps because we always take so little time to cover these matters. Happily, we have plenty of time today to discuss it with others. First, I want to say that I don't completely agree with that when it happened. A senator says that both the present and the previous government have shown a determined willingness to reduce the debt of a state. That's true in the case of the former government. It is true that in the matter of direct interpretation of words that fall from the present government. But when you read it as a piece of paper. A senator referred to, i.e. The fiscal plan, it simply turns out that the current government is actually based on the basis of not planning to reduce debt until the end of the strategy period, except by what we can call irregular joints or replacement operations, i.e. the sale of property parts. Counts 'em out. Don't you think a senator's concern is that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u55	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator resists. I believe that there is a will and perhaps, as I said before, to lower the debt of the state. I'm sure it's true that the government budget shows way too little rest compared to how good I thought it was that it was. The result at the end of 2013 is much better than any existing preschoolers had already indicated, and it is without the intervention of government funds, that is, without our taking into account the payment and any other such on the Federal Bank. As I said before, the Market Points of Arion confirm bank at this time, to eliminate irregular joints. Of course, it is of interest to note that the construction of the Land Hospital is not expected, for example, until the end of the period, then design and so on. I think we may need to stand more on our feet. There's an eco-efficiency group here at work, or he returned plans for how they wanted to see the state of the world, and some of it has worked out. Lowering debt seems to be less priorities than actually reducing government institutions and reducing the number of employees in the state, that seems to be the main objective. I don't have anything more than what. A senator of great faith in the course being run here, where people give up large amounts of income and the tax policy that has been offered will not be able to resist in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u56	Mr. President. I used to be on a budget board at the time. At the same time, there was a discussion about making the data under the legal committee's work better to make them more understandable. This is especially true of the final financial laws that have often been criticized for the fact that things behind them are very difficult to understand. Now, I'm not going to make any special demands to the current head of the budget on modern practice, but I'm still wondering when I'm listening to history here, reviewing the committee's opinion, whether more of the legal committees consider themselves to be some kind of plunger pad for the Ministry of finance. For example, if we take it for a second. paritaprevir Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir cut off, the transfer of documents, in the committee's opinion that there is a policy coming from the Ministry of Economic Affairs on how to transfer over a year. Granted, it does not in direct words, but it can be read between the lines, that the financial committee does not seem to be very pleased with this, and it puts into practice a special group that makes certain examples and wishes to be explained by the Ministry of finance. Then comes some conclusion that is apparently the subject of criticism on the part of the Committee, but the committee does not suggest any adjustment. Counts 'em out. Don't you think that it's time for the committee to take the initiative and start following its own course instead of getting the line out of the Ministry of Economics? Second, does she not believe that it is time for a financial committee to step in and try to develop modern practice? I mention the legal rights that have been transferred from year to year, as well as the driving force. A senator traced, there was nothing behind it, but only the conversation. This is very indistinct. Counts 'em out. A senator's hope is that the current part of the budget is ignored in order to get into the present?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u57	Mr. President. It's a story about old things, and there's a lot of things that are hard to change, i.e. the items you've become. What you can do and because a financial committee is so well-deserved by a good smaller section that is likely to provide more than that. We have been in this working group, along with the chairman of the Committee and sometimes a vice president, and we have tried to take a little deep into these things. You can do better than that, and we've talked to the Ministry, so I don't think and I don't want to belittle the fact that the Committee is non-conforming in trying to resist and get a minister and ministry to do better in planning and other activities, but the experiment has been for far too long. It started with a State Review report, a work group was set up 2009 and 2010 because of the State account of the year. Since we have been considering the 2011 and 2012 revisions, we have been reviewing comments that have been published for years. I have hope that there will be a Ministry and Minister for maintenance, but, of course, there's a lot of authority to be more visible. I agree with this and say again that I think they should be made more visible so that everyone is aware of what's going on, and we know what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u58	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter's beak for a very rich and good talk. It is also a joy to see in the whites that the 2013 budget year brings up to 9 billion in view of the underlying business. That means that the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir, United States, and the left movement of ◯ green supply, managed to stop to 120 billion dollars. possible. There's no small thing in four years. At the same time the whole community trembled because of the bank crash of the crown, a company went under, and their homes were trapped in debt. This was a very complicated, difficult time, but we managed to straighten out and thereby raise debts, which, of course, cost us very much on interest payments every year. As we always said, we are going to change our interest in the future. That's what the cutting was going to do. Then I wondered, after this marvelous success, if it is not a concern to look to the current government budget. It seems that there is a very low estimate of the expenses required for us to run a society that is considered to be a modern form of well - being. I wondered, is it that the results we see in this final financial law are threatened by the insurrection policy of the government?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u59	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir for this answer. It was observed by the chairman of a financial committee in advance rather than in the past regarding the tax reduction policy that it was shown that it was making more money to the community or the state. The other day, I did well with this loaf theory. There was a recent good study, a large and large investigation from Cambridge University, and it completely rejection of the tax policy of right persons. Therefore, I agree that this is something that we regret to bite out of the needle with, as it were, and the right course will continue. I asked the highest. Because we have to deal with the hospital drugs and negotiations between the health insurance and the hospital for the S-labelled medicinal product, it has been observed that balance is reached and that there is no payment this year. Now I'm not saying that this is a thing that can grow into the infinite and all that, but we're talking about people not getting drugs that can make them live, that they have life, because the money's empty that's supposed to pay them. So I asked the minister if he didn't think that there was a gathering need because of the postcurves and also because there were no special funds in it during good study periods. He could not answer it any different than that he believed that balance was achieved, which I do not agree with.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u60	V.E.G. President. It is so that discussions about tax and government matters are often quite technical, which is a sin because these are extremely exciting and interesting lawsuits, government policy and tax policy tell us much about the community behind them. I heard why. The chairman of the legal committee earlier said that as the taxes were lower, the higher the income was the wealth of the state. We also received this information when the Agency and the Independence Party were running last Iceland and then, to get that theory to work, to show that this confusion was correct, the economy of the country that ended by it exploded, Iceland next went bankrupt by that policy. It is now being re-started, and it is incomprehensible to classify, old groups that have long been in power in Iceland, forwards and independent groups, to revise this course. But we'll see what's happening. What would it take for their old theory to start working again for a while, until everything cools off again? Yes, in a frame plan, new activation options need to be bypassed outside the legal process, since the economy needs to be expanded beyond what is normal and possible for an economic environment. That's how it is, and I'm afraid the 2013 final law is not the tone that's struck for the next four years. Then it will be our job to unwind it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u61	Mr. President. You see, it is not always fun to be in the task of scraping, shoveling the fool, as we had to do after decades of working together with groups that are now ruling. I agree that there are a lot of things in the economy, and we in the management situation are not the only ones that encourage us not to put too much expectations and things like that, and it's important these days when we're dealing with decommissionation or release, because we're not being cut off, they're building a process for disposal. And then the minister of finance sees the opportunity to say, "Now we're going to start lowering taxes. " That's all we need to say to everyone who controls money: Wait a minute, then we need to see if the inflation is not rising, and we don't have to raise interest, etc.? I'm sorry, but I think the tax policy is so that it's going to put us right back to where we were, if it's right in front of us. It is not pessimism or pessimism. This has proved true. That's a fact. Still, despite the tremendous shipwreck, people will try it again. I'll agree with that. A senator and I have told of my first entry into the council and came to discuss the laws of the law. I was surprised to see how few people were always in the Assembly Hall, and I know that there aren't necessarily a lot of people watching because this is something people, many of whom, don't like. Maybe it's our job to drag them out of technical discussions and move them into this human, that communicative, like what this number means on paper, that means they won't be given any hospital medicine or anything like that. I think we need to clean up and change the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u62	V.E.G. President. I'm in a mood. This discussion began with an extremely tasteless comment. The chairman of the budget board, who spoke of the former government being the government of demanding workers. She was saying that the government of the United States and the left movement ◯ green supply had worked in the wake of the collapse in favor of foreign interests and thus against national interests. These are very serious measures. It seems that it is a theme that candidates will argue and try to insist so often that it will eventually become truth. The other day, it broke down. paritaprevir Karl Garðarsson president of the United States, huh? paritaprevir Páll's aged Árnason, a similar problem of openness with his people, was seen. We made many comments, and finally he apologized, saying, of course, that he had gone too far. At the beginning of my speech, I'm going to give some thought to a former senator, minister, and prime minister, Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir. This is the 100th anniversary of a women's vote. It shows that Jóhanna was the tenth woman elected at the General Assembly of the Icelanders in 1978. For those interested in her work, it is possible to see on the council all the many subjects she presented and fought for with great determination. It was observed that Jóhanna's hard work was so great that at least two members of the Management Board would need to respond to questions from her and write reports on her request. Now I may not be the best person to review her natural long career. He spent 35 years at the General Assembly. She promoted great reforms for the benefit of children, for the benefit of disabled people, and for the benefit of the elderly. She used herself to cover democratic reforms. When it all fell down here, Jóhanna was almost self-elected to take over the government. They knew, regardless of whether they agreed with her political views or not, that Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was alone in his defense of public interest in Icelandic society. She had fought for those who often do not have a voice, so there are now various groups that once stood in palaces with a much stronger voice in Icelandic society and who enjoy human rights. She had fought against all forms of corruption, and the people knew that Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was able to lead the Iceland government in these difficult times with public interest. So it is extremely serious and tasteless to come here and suggest that the Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir government has done something other than work on the interests of the public in Iceland. I condemn such indignities to that remarkable woman. [[Up front.]] We are now dealing with the final budget, and this is the testimony of how successful it was for the United States Government and the Left Move for the Green Mission. It is well considered at the Market Points of Arion Bank how it was achieved to establish a baseless government fund, apart from irregular teams that do not directly address the underlying budget's underlying management. Of course, they need to be taken into account, for irregular groups must be financed from the government box as well as others. However, it is important that the structure of the income fund and the State Fund are self-sustained, that the income tax system, the tax system in the country, is built in such a way that it works in the normal way of the income needed to provide them with services and income transfers and to go to the investments we want to be in this country. The Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's government chose a route that has been widely viewed in many lands and has received a top score, which was looking for ways to increase the income of the state's funds. This was done by a special resource tax, which was a property tax on very wealthy persons in society, and by hunting costs, and then by step - by tax subsidies, which were probably legal and common in all civilized states, where those who have increased income have carried a relatively slightly heavier burden than those with the least income. It is a fair system and for the purpose of creating an equalizing society in which we have achieved natural remarkable results because, in the equal sense, people have the opportunity to develop the skills they have to carry, health is better, social cohesion is greater, fewer crime, and the more important is the equality of a more efficient career, since people are more educated and willing to take risks because good security networks take hold of it if it goes badly and thus enjoy the businesses of the country's good and are in a better position to increase their competitiveness in domestics and markets. When Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was a social minister in 2007, 2009, she took over the social security case, and that is a case that was very close to her heart. She managed what had failed to be achieved by the earlier government, to dissociate spouse connections in the social security system that made a difference for the pensioner who suffered because their spouses had income over a particular limit, so that the pensioners were in many cases, especially disability-employers, in the position of not being financial independence. It also introduced a specific minimum extension insurance that increased the minimum social security benefits by up to 30 levels. K. Of course, the changes that had been made were crucial when it came to her coldly involved cutting down this system. There was no reinvestment, and minimal improvement was maintained, and it was guaranteed to increase, though, that other payments would take place or be reduced in some way. During this period of 2009●2013, the pressure of government tolerance was tested, and efforts were made to reduce cuts as possible and reduce the pain that all of this meant for citizens who contributed much to the recovery of society. We talked about how we wanted to change interest in welfare, for if we reached the angle of a government fund, the state's funds would stop collecting debt, but the debt was largely high after the financial collapse that they were the second largest paid by the state after medical care, in the ninth of tens of billions. It tells itself that for the long time, such things do not work, and they had to react. It can also be said that the government of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir was the government of the big plans. For example, these included the investment plan, which was financed. with the fishing fees that the new government reduced, it removed the investment plans on the basis of income. They also started adding to their systems. Children's reforms had increased, and further increases were required. It had been extended and raised considerably, not for the extension, but for the 50s'roof. K. had already occurred. The damage done by the health system had ended, and the funds to buy and maintain and to the business had begun to be added. It was a real disappointment when a new government came to power with an old tax investment as the mother of all reforms and continued cutting down government expenses, although it would likely have been impossible to cut more at the end of Jóhanna Sigurðardóttir's reign, as it were. The chairman of the legal committee said so. The present government has found a number of opportunities to cut further down, and although the administrative sector talks about increased health costs, they are not proportionate enough to meet the needs of the system. There are special cases that I want to pay attention to. There are social security, child support, high school, health and law enforcement. The global insurance system and the child-replacement system are natural only income transfer systems. There we use tax revenues to pay to groups that need community insurance and are entitled by law. There are disability pensioners, old - age pensioners, and baby families in life, and there is no need to have deep insight in a human society to realize that these are the normal groups that most likely need the social security system. We all enjoy living in this system at some point, sometimes we're servers, and sometimes we're grazing. That's how it is in normal society. Of course, with high school, health, and law enforcement, there are important factors in a good community. Education for all regardless of the economy, health services for all regardless of the economy, and I want to add a farm to both of these factors, as well as legislators aimed at creating security in the community, making the police more visible, but of course, we want to live in such a community that the police need to have the most invasive procedure. So we get the best results because it reduces crime. For health care, that's a good example. It's burning all the letters in between now. Doctors had their first history in a strike, nurses had a strike, and many medical classes at BHM. When the health - care system is affected by what it had been in since the turn of the century, it simply means that investments and shopping are drawn together and wages are drawn together, but the projects are not reduced. There may be some activities that have ceased to be serious, but people continue to get sick, people continue to need pa·rou·siʹa, we need to keep open to good clinics, and then we are so lucky that the Icelanders continue to be born - we are very well at heart when it comes. In order for all to receive the necessary services, we need a good health system, and this is done by staff and the pay expenses for the health - care community. What Icelandic health care professionals have gone through is a decrease in staff and a lower price. Now it's time we added to our business. Although this is a dramatic statement that no one has ever been put in so much, the load is relative to gaining weight on the health system, and it needs to be met with increased expenses. It hasn't been done. BHM has not yet reached contracts, but now it is to try to force nurses to negotiate, in effect, that it is not a sex wage that this class has a handsome record and that it is enough; it is no longer possible to rely on women's goodness to give or sell its work much less cheap than men sell their jobs, i.e. The traditional male class. Of course, although the course of the previous government had continued, the situation here would not be perfect. It'll take longer. But the way things are done is also important. At times, surgery cannot be avoided, and sometimes it can be added only out of circumstances, but what messages are sent into the system? Is this message sent that the class is demanding and unreasonable, or is it sent that these classes are important and the government wants to meet them, but the subject is complicated and requires a great deal of cooperation? Sadly, the current government chose the first route and, for example, was ready to establish laws on these classes because there was such a state of health emergency because of its strikes, but does not understand that the importance of these classes should, of course, be reflected in their terms. For 2013, I fear that I would not be giving the tone for the reign of this government. It will be our role in the smaller sections below to help us fight the increased expenditures for the combined consumption and income resources of the State's funds and ensure that the current administrative sector does not impair government income institutions paid by the resources and the wealthiest and the wealthiest people in the country. Now it can. The chairman of the budget board here spoke of the government's good policy. Subscriptors carrying on the sixth tens of thousands of signatures, repeated protests on the Eastern fields for the European Member States' application and due to strikes and cuts, as well as major classes, testify that there is no general agreement among the people on the policies established by the Government of Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnugason, a policy that we may have to endure for only two more years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u63	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. You see, I think it's nice to think that we're going over what's been done well. It is very important that, as I came into my previous language, my schedule be taken care of how difficult the times were, which were seen in the health status of today. I also feel that it was not the objective of any previous government to achieve an equalisation in terms of the government that it was not the goal of trying to pay off debt, as if it were some new thing to the nation's present government. Therefore, it is important that we maintain that, of course, it was and always has been the goal of each government. As we have seen, the goal was to change growth in the welfare of others, such as the driving force. A senator has personally taken his own form. We are shocked when, as the senator noted, there has never been so much money on health issues as we do today. The situation of collapse was so frightening that the land hospital could not afford medicine. He had nothing for him. Thus, he was turned into the collapse after the so - called Good News. It is as if existing government groups want to forget a little bit because the zero point was not 2008, that from that point on, they could start with some financial resources. In addition, when a medical fund is made up of people who boast, it is now that if we make a fortune in land production, the next thing we do is not remember. Of course, that is not possible. [[Up front.]] - Government budget and budget prove this. I can show the chairman of the legal committee, as listed here, that this is not true, a plot to confirm. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u64	V.E.G. President. No, I can't help but agree with what. Senator. You see, there was a terrible situation that faced us and we were in after the collapse of the financial system and after the collapse of the currency. I now sense that Iceland's public has, in effect, become more aware of that position than the High Priests and Self - Opportunity Party. An amazing persistence and willingness to fight characterized the most important organizations in the country. Despite difficult cuts, the school system worked like an anointed machine. Despite difficult cuts, the health system worked like an anointed machine. It was large women classes that kept Iceland going after the collapse of the financial system. [[Up front.]] These classes were a safeguard of our health, health, and well - being, hosting children at school who were living in homes in serious financial problems, welcoming those who fell ill from serious concern about financial matters. All of this worked, even though the man's big gambling cities were booming. There are these classes that are supposed to enjoy that Iceland is returning to a normal set of government jobs. It is these classes that will not allow themselves to be used as slaves to do work but will not be able to enjoy the benefits of what they have contributed to creation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u65	Mr. President. It is not enough to boast that government interests are becoming better, that paying off debt is a priority, if we push everything else to the future. That's kind of the thing. We have to do this equally, i.e. Using the space held by members of Parliament, I think it's a very hard time to count the price. It needs to be used in so many other ways, including. to this infrastructure, and therefore, it is important to arrange well. I noted in my speech earlier that it was important to think that, of course, every government at any given time could take to heart what it had, but it should not be forgotten that it was the nation who was primarily involved with the government that then worked to accomplish what it did. I have to say, because this called the chairman of the budget board from the hall that what I said wasn't true, it's certainly true that the medical spending has gone up in the past few years, but if it's looked at as a percentage of total budgets on budget or gross domestic product, they're slightly higher. It is so little that people cannot afford to take it into their mouths that they are so amazing. I agree with that and, of course, worry that a contract will be destroyed, I'm sorry. People are actually going along to sign contracts just because they are forced not to be subjected to a crime. They're the unions, like a whale. A senator mentioned, who fought with us the most, accepting children and people in all kinds of condition that had to wait because our service was impaired. [[The president calls.]] These people were on our side. Now, these people are to continue despite the fact that the national economy, according to the government, is so unfashionable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u66	V.E.G. President. It is true, in fact, it was the Icelandic common people who set up the national situation. Now, the same common people are to pay off the bill so that the old 50 - half - life replacement regime can continue to enforce its course, enforce its policy of reducing the weight of taxes, increase investment in the big business, and sell its energy on a mocker. That course had changed. Although the production of energy has been extensive and largely added to the system during our reign, it was guaranteed that for our market prices there would be marketing prices and there would be no slave contracts made for a slave on the force of electricity. Then, of course, we paid for the access and use of the resource. It's been seriously lowered. Now, on top of it, we take the new type, the mackerel, and the greeting. It was to be checked into six-year contracts that actually translate into long - term contracts, since it would have required two governments in a row to make a mutual decision to change that arrangement. This is what the current government offers to the Icelandic public, a government that accepts as well as can be expected after these years but shows that this idea has been rejected by the Icelandic public. We don't want an independent party of skirts and a forward party ever again. We want social justice and a community equal to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. In the last season, there was a band. A member of Congress, the Conspiracy, is increasing transparency in the financial affairs of the state by publishing data in computerized form. This is often underestimated, but it gives people downtown the opportunity to use the evidence in some new way that politicians do not even support and that they have nothing to care for, but rather provide the evidence and have someone else do something to benefit them. The most important example of this is each tax.is derived from these data. Party dog. Surely, a senator, the Conspiracy, is to be commended for a very positive and large step in that regard, as I would think. What I'm wondering is, when it comes to the budget and the final financial and financial affairs of the State in general, how can you improve in the first place and in the second, a democratic approach to some extent, of course, with the awareness that the State's finances are probably the part of the state that requires the most professional approach rather than necessarily political in all respects. Of course, they're about big political questions, and that's why the issues are here, not in some private company, some institution that handles this for us. That's where the problem lies. I was especially concerned about the market income. I would have thought and thought that when I started at the General Assembly that making money was simply a good thing. It turns out it's not necessarily that way. The accountants I've been talking to mean that there's nothing that's as simple and pleasant as men want to mean. Well, maybe. A senator taught us about his vision of the market income and their role in the transparency of financial matters?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u68	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer. That was a lot of good tips and questions. Hv. A senator concluded his income and asked me specifically about it. Now that it is, and I can tell it from the heart completely that I'm not in favor of marketd earnings. I believe it is more convenient for money to go directly to the state's budget and then be decided on an individual's needs. This is my doctrinal view of the matter. Now I don't know the history of market income over the years. Of course, earnings have often been made, since income companies are being guaranteed for something, but it also demonstrates the distrust of political authority to distribute money where it is most needed. Then we come to this problem: Do we as politicians want to increase efficiency to a state fund raise and then divide money? At times, market income stocks are being used in a good year - long journey, but they are not being used to the same extent that it may be a lack of money elsewhere. So this is an unfortunate arrangement. In another regard, are we faced with this: Do we trust to change this system completely, trusting in the political authority to make full use of the money that is needed, or is there a danger that those funding funds that are now financed by market incomes, or to a large extent are not getting enough money? I don't give a clear answer, but in the doctrine I don't favor markets.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u69	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. I think it's a very interesting discussion. The idea of market income works quickly, such as that it only puts on something about cars, ships, things like that. That's why I really find this very interesting about transparency. Of course, transparency in itself is of little value if the phenomenon is complex that no one understands or down in it. Therefore, it is important in my opinion that things are relatively simple, simple enough for a player who does not have expertise in the material to do something about the information. This involves transparency. I'm kind of leaning side by side over a little bit. A senator, i.e. that commercial income stocks are not a good idea, at least not from transparency, but perhaps from some kind of fair friendship, it may be. True, I have to say, first of all. A senator brings up a lack of confidence in the ability of political power to distribute the money, that I think there is a lack of trust, and I think that there is some degree of distrust, even to a great extent, justified because we call here in this fine political hall on political issues, and we have a conflicting view of where the money should go. This knows the Almighty, and the people and the high Council should also know that often money cannot be found in the right places compared to the problems that exist in each issue. I thought of ways to increase transparency to give the nation, individuals, organizations, or anything, the opportunity, in effect, to receive some of this discussion to inform the General of the matter of priorities. What I can think of quickly is simply the document format that this data came up with. I wonder what. A senator has some ideas about how to increase transparency even when it is a class. The senator made the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u70	V.E.G. President. For the production of the budget bill, the budget bill and the final budget bill, I've long felt that it must be changed. The financial bill is that you have to be introduced to feel what you're looking for. It is not to the point that the public can study it, and they are well aware of how expenses are being worked out. Of course you can, but it's all too complicated. I believe that many members of this hall are familiar with only a few parts of this bill because it's inaccessible and difficult to monitor real-sized and so on in these panels. Regarding market income, you can often say: It's reasonable to get the tax to build a road. Should it be reflected perfectly? Since there is no car exhaust, do we not have to use it for other purposes as well? When it comes to a long - suffering person who has not really paid taxes to society for a long time because the individual has not been able to earn money and therefore does not pay income taxes, do we not want her to have her health care? It's not always possible to connect. We have had health problems with a market income. The rate of services has increased dramatically, and today people pay 30 billion from their own pockets. There will always be a tendency for politicians to, if they need to cut down or reduce their expenses, their services will be slightly increased. It will be this temptation. Although earnings can be fair and transparent, they can also be extremely unfair and in no way reflect the need for financial support from a financial fund.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u71	Mr. President. In itself, discussions and handling of these final financial laws should be a cause for joy to all who sit in the chamber. This is because it turns out that the year 2013 was a good year, and it lived well under the man - made strategy, perhaps primarily due to two factors. First, the government that ruled six months but also the government under which it began. I count as always when you look back and can speak with praise, if merits allow, about the men who took the lead, people should be generous and say things the way they are. I believe that ever since Iceland went through the hard crash in 2008, all the governments that came to the fore since then made an effort to do the best part of Iceland. It was about the first government, the government of the then prime minister of Geir H. Haardes. It was indeed a disaster, but as it has been seen, she found the right paths for the maze of solutions then available. All the research and opinions that have since been made on decisions then draw all of us to make the tool in the form of an emergency song, perhaps when we look back, the only practical way to get a kickback, and the resistance was indeed achieved. During those years, there was a frightening vision. There were predictions from abroad that Iceland would have to pass through solidly that 15% of unemployment, inflation was 21%, and operating growths were few all around the world, were here at 18%. It had been predicted that 70% of Icelandic companies would fail and more of the Icelandic households as they were then, the vision that faced the hope. That was the situation at the end of the bank collapse. Today, we are in 2015, and how is what we see today? Yes, all the streets since mid-Aust 2010 have been economic growth. All the plans set out by the World Bank, the Secret Bank, and the three former financial advisers in the last two governments have walked along practically on a spot and a stick. The worlds were saved, and certainly with the strong force of the present government. The companies in an acceptable position before the collapse were all exposed to wind, the inflation was rapidly inclined by previous governments, and then, of course, have added to very favorable external conditions that have led to a further decline in in in inflation, the rate of growth fell by the last government, and perhaps, most of all, all the action taken on its part, led to a significant decrease in unemployment rate. True, there is concern now in this government's time, with its last figures, that it has not continued to decrease. At that time, there were very important operations to create jobs, and there may be two things I especially want to mention. First of all, the republic's history has never put as much financial resources as it does for road work and transportation. Why? Because we applied the Italian law. We spit into the economy, we did projects, we made jobs, and we built roads. This was extremely important. On the one hand, that government under extreme pressure placed enormous funds to promote tourism. During that time, donations for travel increased five times as much as they had been most in the year the former president of the council, and secretary of transport to Sturla Böðvarsson, following the attack on the Twin Towers 2001. We set $1 billion, 1,000 million. K., in promoting transport services on two distinct missions even here from the Hall of Congress, on the one hand, inspired by Iceland, by permission of presidents, and on the other, Iceland all year long. Today, we see the fruitage of this. I'm not saying that all the increase in foreign tourist arrivals in Iceland is caused by this. Indeed, it is of great importance that Iceland was cheaper because it fell. But the first government, perhaps the most powerful evidence of the revolution that has occurred in the arrival of foreign tourists outside the traditional tourist era, made this statement. This was what the previous government did. I don't doubt for a moment the Supreme Government. The welfare of the people is the concern of the prime minister of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson. I happen to disagree with her in various basics, but I do believe that although I believe that the government wants to win his people. That's what anyone in the government wants to do, sit in the World Council. For example, the first government laid the groundwork for removing a currency head. The present government has certainly failed later, and there is a possibility that we are now laying the groundwork for removing a currency head, as Buchheit Buuchy says in the next six to seven years. There are already some economic and business proposals for certain legal adjustments to assume that this may be further. Of course, the premise was a decision that was made here at the time when the first government issued a legal bill after the closing of financial markets that locked in all the deposit rates of worn - out fragments. I don't think for a moment that all the senators then voted have done it according to their best convictions. For example, though I never understood it, and neither today do I imagine that there is already a bad time. Vigdís Hauksdóttir, president of the budget, did not put up with what today is the basis for the decommissioning of the currency market, then she did it for exactly the same motive as the highest power. The prime minister, when I took note here in a discussion on the bill of execution of the past, why it had been the attitude of the convention, said: "I didn't understand, it was so soon. I'll think about it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir didn't understand the case, but then... [[What are you talking about?]] On March 12, 2012, the laws that were approved for the change in currency law were already in force. Hauksdóttir Hauksdotttir did not have the courage to deal with the previous government in the fight against demands. [[Up front.]] It would be easy for me to say exactly the same reasoning as why. paritaprevir has been shamed on this day by claiming that we have made a conscious effort to claim that on that very night, she did so when she did not join the State in fighting the demands. But it doesn't come to my mind. A senator has a number of difficulties in nature that draw them to want to work against the interests of the nation. But with the same reasoning, I can say that sometimes only the flashes of understanding fail at the moment. A senator like the highest. Prime Minister. All governments will make mistakes, and there is no government perfect, and I believe that this government has made a number of mistakes. For example, I find myself developing a growing suspicion of contracts. Of course, the prime minister of the son of Davíð Gunnlaugsson, who refused to have occurred in London but at the highest level. The financial and economic minister was sufficiently good enough to accept it and to inform how they discussed it. There is, however, a number of things that are drawing to the highest level. Prime Minister made a deal with the demands. I may come to that later in my speech, but it is, of course, with remarkable contrasts when the most respected and experienced media journalists dealing with financial life are writing an entire series of articles on joyful demands and asking themselves aloud, " What causes the mood of demands? ' They simply ask and say, as Master Þórðarson's researcher Stopr 2 said in an article in the financial and market part of the newspaper last night: 'I find myself troubled.' What was the fin? Yes, the joy of the demands was due to the highest. Prime Minister, the leader of our lives. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, would have made up of himself, he would have been too quick, possibly because he needed a statement before the Special Assembly of the Agency, I'm not going to make them shoes, but the timings do not smell too good, as will be referred to in the discussions when the time comes. It doesn't change the way I believe the government works, and I'm happy with all the things it's done. For example, I am especially pleased with things that are the highest. With regard to changing the law around here, the minister of finance has made sure that he accepts the inheritance from which it came. The members of Katrín Júlíusdóttir and the Oddný Harðardóttir Daughter who had been prepared before are expected to work. They should take what is positive from their predecessors and continue their work with it, and that is what I find so positive at the highest. Secretary of the budget, he's not hesitant about it. He may be like me, setting as an example the wise words of the great Chairman Maós, who said: "I don't care what color the cats are, just if they catch mice. Mr. President. Now it is kind of a classy opening in my speech because I had come to some of the trouble. paritaprevir Vigdís the daughter of Hauksdóttir and her comments today, and then she's out of the hall. But in the meantime, I'm going to take this bill only to the final budget. What impresses me when we discuss this bill is the fact that there has been little improvement since what was discussed a few years ago in trying to make these final funds, which are an important tool to make them understandable. I imagine that already there is. paritaprevir In fact, the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's office is going to be at the council and he's going to be looking at it. It's the bill that's working for him as hard as it gets. For me who has been here for 23 or 24 years, it is very difficult to understand the final budget because there are no suggestions on how to handle the warrants and revenues, millions of years, and there are no explanations. For example, it is mentioned on page 22. 75, Mr. President, of the individual budgets in the late 2013 end of the year, this team is 09-711 highest, and it is found to be responsible for 11.8 billion dollars. I say for myself, and I'm almost convinced that the former curator of the Bureau agrees with me that I would like to see how the tax requirements are canceled about 11.8 billion in excess of what was planned. I can't find any explanation for that. On the other hand, like all things, like cot. paritaprevir In his earlier speech, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir's daughter is not disintegrated at all. There are no explanations and, in some cases, transliteration over New Year's events does not tell how much we preach but simply makes conversation in the seminary. I imagine the vascular senator For the Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, who is struggling for increased transparency and toesity, I agree that this is not something you can offer, not even the self-employment of the law firm, the present or the former, and I find it hard to understand, too. I also wondered, " What are the possibilities for a financial committee to use this tool? ' I have always considered that the final budget is a very good tool, not just to stop the account, but to see how the plans fall into reality and through this we can see when agencies, as we saw so much more in the past, go year after year from record. In the past, we used the final budget to cover such companies and organizations and to try to put the chair in front of the door. As an example, this committee's opinion of one particular procedure, a nursing home, shows that the premium price is at a quarter of a hundred billion dollars. and it shows that this is a multifold budget of the year. You wonder, " How can this happen when I thank God that these examples are few? ' Every senator who has spoken this afternoon has been sorry for the atmosphere in which this discussion of the final financial law has been carried out. It should be commercial, and it has all the potential for doing so, but it certainly was. The chairman of a legislature committee now fled from the hall, which began the discussion with an indistinguishable flood of abuses for two political parties in the last government. She made it clear that they classes had taken up the challenge, that would have been the government of the demands. I'm telling you absolutely clearly that this is nothing but a plot of treason. Of course, I am not surprised at this. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, the only senator who has. In 2007 or 2008, it began its career at the Council, with exactly those words, and it is still in the process. This seems to me to have a quick turn, especially in view of the fact that there's something wrong here. In recent weeks, members of the Parliament, three of the Parliament, came up and complained that there was not a positive atmosphere at the National Assembly of Iceland. They have complained that it was harassment, pleas, and men being beaten about this and that. And then, on the second consecutive day, the chairman of the budget board comes, what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who can't stand the truth and is fled from the Hall of Congress, is here two days in a row, calling the former government of this country, saying that she was working against the interests of the nation. And that's not what I'm going to let quietly pass over me. And that's why I reacted so badly to the general president earlier today because I have a claim that the President of Generalis defends me against the bridges of this kind, which we've leveled in the millions. It is strange, however, that these whales do not. A senator would say that. She's the biggest soldier in the world. A prime minister who has just completed contracts with demands, and these treaties, as I noted at 1st. about the bills went very fast. I asked them the highest. Secretary of finance whether it might have been Icelanders who were too soon and who were walking too fast to negotiate. Now it turns out that financial journalists, including... Þórðarson of St. 2, has begun to wonder about the same thing. Þórðarson, who is most likely one of the best journalists involved in the financial market and knows exactly in the backyards and side rooms, asks publicly: "What is it that causes a happy claimer? It is asked by a man who knows well of the requirements, the highest. The prime minister called the vulture Fund, saying that the atmosphere is filled with joy over the contracts that were obtained, and he asks: "What is the cause? And he answers, he says he's worried about it and asks in an article he writes, is it because the government of Iceland made a deal? You see, it is as if the demands were found that by the end of those contracts, they won a lottery. And as we examine what is happening, we see the following: The prime minister came here and beat himself on the chest and said he had become Iceland in the last 1,000,1,200 billion years. What is the situation in this regard? Yes, there are endless discounts that the demands are being paid to become soft - tempered at the highest level. Prominently, this amount is similar to that produced by the last government. This, however, does not matter in this amount. paritaprevir In fact, Vigdís Hauksdóttir accuses others of walking the most challenging challenges, as one of her own presidents has agreed that the reporter who knows best about the fact that there has been a breakdown of rage.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u72	Mr. President. I thank the senator for his speech. He is powerful as he has a problem. I agree that we are, of course, culminating all the words of the chairman of the budget board and that we must not forget that she is one of the most powerful members of this government as the chairman of a legal committee, as a private member of the body, whose words weigh heavily here in the discussion. Being accused of caring not for the interests of Icelanders but for some foreign people is a very strong charge, and I did not fully understand when the president asked her to take care of his words, but then he seemed to drag something back with it. It would have been interesting to have confirmed for what he was asking her to guard his words. But there are some factors, including. That when this government takes over, it's far better than the highest. For a long time, the minister of finance and prime minister wanted to let things go and talked about how wrong it was. There were no 17 or 20 billion adjustments available. Rather, the outcome was better without the intervention of state funds, and I think the senator must agree with me on that. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u73	There's been talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u74	But at least I would have liked to see better this opportunity, i.e. how the government is taking advantage of it. Like what? A senator's reason is that the waiting management that lies ahead is important, and considering that this situation was underestimated by those now in power, the question is: Are they perhaps overemphasising the position that lies ahead?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u75	Mr. President. I've always counted the highest. Secretary of finance was very careful, but I felt that he was getting out of line when he preached to a meeting at Valhalla with an advertisement where he said he was going to talk about delinquency and taxation. I noticed that the day later, when the meeting was held, the advertisement had been changed and perhaps the highest. Secretary of the budget is seen. I think it's very dangerous to plan on making use of the amount of space that may be created in what can be called a legitimate action, and it's quite certain that tax cuts are like that. We may be able to reduce taxes if we are able to bring up some form of government or if we have some kind of space and conditions to do so. I think it's a crazy man's idea to use this to reduce taxes. Then there was a talk from the wind. paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson the other day. That was the last discussion of 1st. about the two primes submitted. There he literally said that none of this money could be spent. He put it in such a way that they must be destroyed, therefore burned. All he gave himself to be able to use them was to use them to zero the letter that passed between the state and the Sentencing bank that reminds me that was 180 billion, I don't remember how much, but it's also the same thing as moving the amount from one pocket to another on the same jacket. For example, he felt that it was not permitted or dangerous to use it to meet the pension debt that the government has against government officials. It was very interesting to me. I think this money needs to be handled very slowly if this space is formed but I also think that not all of them are buried, I think it'll be much less as I look at it, but there are, of course, a lot better experts than I do in this room on this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u76	Mr. President. The money needs to be taken care of, and I trust in it. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson, the son of Siglejo, does well to consider this matter. I have felt cautious when he has drawn close to them and has done just that in his speech. Hv. A senator mentioned the last financial law and transparency, and we've been talking about it a little bit, how we can reveal it better and all. This is exactly what we asked for, and it's fine because the chairman of the legal committee is here, to get information about the tax requirements. We asked a Government Accounting to go into it and think about it, and we haven't had an answer, of course, why they're so big and how they're divided and why it's this way. The time may come for us to press on to answer that question. This is something we agree on that we want to try to fix. The senator also mentioned how plans could be exceeded and, as an example, the nursing home of Huldundáll reminded me, anyway, of which it was mentioned earlier. In that case, much of it gets better because the contractor breaks down. That's the explanation. However, this does not change the fact that it is expected with consciousness and will be done by ministers and counselors. You can't do this any other way, or I can't imagine that such a spectacular super-running could be accomplished differently because the state pays 85% and the rurals 15%. The state must have a check-up and the Ministry must be informed on this and immediately authorized. That is why I agree that it is my responsibility to increase the responsibility of a minister, i.e. with your resources, organisations and projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u77	Mr. President. The entire body has been funded, and it should never be reduced to any extent by the Commission. It is always a tendency for the European Commission to try to achieve the highest power in the Council. I feel that the Commission is doing a lot of good with the budget. For example, I don't like to hear it from a dog. A senator said that the committee asked for an explanation for why the letter I took as an example of 11.8 billion. That's what happened. A senator said that the committee asked for an explanation from a state accountant. I feel like this big matter can't be finished until it's in place. Hv. A senator and chairman of a financial committee, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, boasted of it, as if a peacock with a ragged tail, how good it all had become, and in great peace. [[Up front.]] I think that's the amount you need. What causes this? The committee's supposed to know. On the one hand, I notice that the 2008 rule we took up, which involved spending clearances that 10% over a year, is still in effect. 4% used to be, and I remember that there's still 4% in terms of stock costs and transfers. I'm quite aware that it is, like, what is it? A senator was saying, a little difficult to discuss the moves that are often bound to other laws. I'm so aware that when I read the report on the final budget, it's still exceptions. It is reported that some institutions have received more than 10%. Where are they? I can't find them. I'm sure I can't find them. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson, and certainly not those outside the council who wanted to study this. Control must be established. If that's a rule, it should apply to everyone, if there are exceptions, then to tell us what cases there are.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u78	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a particularly pleasant talk, but I noticed that there was a problem. A senator spoke of this discussion as being more objective and subject to all manner of talk, whereas it would be difficult to do so. The senators would come here and cry for each other. I understand the point, but I also wondered if it really is good to discuss these matters or try to discuss them seriously at this time, in the circumstances when the council is and has been a long time, for a month or more, I would say several months, in the atmosphere of distrust, and just the public way of being with one another, and especially between smaller parts and more parts. In this regard, I wondered, " Is this a case that exists at some other time or how we can have more objective discussions under these circumstances regardless of the circumstances or circumstances. ' Councilmen. The situation here at the council is now very difficult to have. You can see that this has become a tendency to give in to all discussion only to delay, that no one here steps in a pit except to get in the way and spend time. This will have disastrous consequences for the council and, indeed, when it comes to such matters. However, government matters are topics that you would have thought were the most clear exchange of opinions. I'd love to hear more from it. A senator of all of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u79	Mr. President. The pressure of budgets, extras, and finals is a sin in the Congress's work. It is the government's foundation. When there's a dispute at the council, then there's gonna be trouble. A senator, whom I do not doubt will have a long, promising future in the General Assembly, found that no matter what circumstances such issues are discussed. Each time, governments never stop them. It has once been experienced in the last 35 years. In 1994, the move team was going to try to stop the budget. But in time, the majority of the material eventually becomes the control. It is part of democracy and the prerequisite for ruling a kingdom. That's why there's a why. A member of the council may notice that a conflict with a government stands before him rather than resist the absence of objective, moderate discussion. I believe, however, that even under such circumstances these matters should be considered. But if you do. A senator means that there has been quite a bit of tension here in the conferences, so under no circumstances will I pass over the fact that some members of Congress come here and call me names that point to it and include accusations that I have been working against my own people. Such accusations and reproaches are not designed to create a positive atmosphere for the discussion. Still, men have tried to discuss this objectively, but, of course, people are in a rage, and every senator has made a statement about the subject. But I understand why. At the end of this discussion, a senator means that it would be best to bring up the balance of government bills and the final financial law, which has never been successful, next in 2011.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u80	A respectable president. I can say that it's very difficult to try to keep the discussion objective when you are accused of some kind of treason or what to call it. By the way, those timings are just like that. A senator mentioned at the end of his opponent, and I took it from the committee's opinion. I wonder a little what's going to happen, why it's like this. All governments, finance agencies, financial agencies must want to keep this in order, that government bills will come at the same time as the final budget, but for some reason it won't, and there seems to be some terrible problem over there. Is that political or technical? Is that a map? I sometimes wonder what it is that we have to do to fix such a problem that everyone seems to want to solve. At the same time, you cannot quickly see political interests because of having these things wrong. When it comes to budgeting and closing laws, I am more personally talking about the arrangement as a whole rather than an occasional amount, though they are certainly being discussed as well. Then I wondered if time was not best spent in finding solutions, permanent solutions to things such as presentation, government bills, and final financial laws, trying to get all of this together to improve the discussion here in the hall. I'd be very interested in learning more about this, and I'm sure the audience would too. What prevents this from being made clearer? It must help with all democratic discussions, both here and among the nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u81	Mr. President. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. Harðardóttir This is a far better answer than I can. But at the time, the gap between the state bill and the final budget was often much longer than today, I think it's seven months, doesn't that appear in the committee opinion? [[Up front.]] In times past, it was faster than ever. Then I felt that this was because the technology to collect information was inadequacy. It should not be an inhibitor today, but it is expected that it is delayed to get information from institutions into the Ministry where they are processed and then through the processing process. It must be. But it is also my experience in changing practices in a number of ways that can be done to a large extent, but it takes a lot of initial effort. But once they've done it, they start walking smoothly. And don't forget that what we have to do. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is talking about a desirable and natural process, which has long since been adopted in most of the local councils, so it's totally possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u82	A respectable president. I'm not going to give a long talk on this matter, for it's a final budget, not an act of financial control. But as I have come to face - to - face with matters, I am especially interested in the presentation of government funds in a way that makes it easier for the public to use that information, not just to look up certain numbers and to predict how to use the budget, but simply to gain some perspective on the money. Now, in a political discussion on any matter of financial importance, the amount of money for the public seems always very high. Millions of people live in normal society, much less tens of millions, hundreds of millions, or tens of billions, and hundreds of billions. That is the amount we discuss here, and it may not always be clear, perhaps rarely, in what context we discuss these numbers. Of course, no one is to blame, and in itself it cannot be completely fixed, but it can be made easier for people to grasp the overall context. Then again, I mention the fine web site of each tax.is, the web is processed from open data that the state began to publish during the last term, thanks to the ultimate. Minister. When you open up information to the public, you don't have to have the complete understanding of the information, you just need one person to be interested, maybe a little time out, and the ability to make interesting use of it. Then I also find it important to keep it in place that there are only 63 members of the Council. There are only a number of ministers and the management board is just a certain size, and all these institutions are more or less occupied at all times. What happens in the community, however, is that it is, in my opinion, far more vastly vastly and more of the ideals where ideas are born that are not here because we are not really the same as the common citizen can become with interest and ability. That is exactly why the presentation of the evidence is important. To describe a bit of the situation I experience here as a computer nerd for many years - I've been working on many things except programming in adulthood. When I look at Congress documents, they're not quite roasted, it wouldn't be fair to say so. But on the other hand, they're old-fashioned, I'm afraid to say, or rather, incompetent for computers. Simple things such as designing software that looks up a particular article or paragraph within certain articles within certain layers are a problem. It is also a problem to find out when a new bill, a concierge, or something similar to what you want to look up, for example. all the laws quoted, or all the Supreme Courts quoted. There's a technical problem, and I don't think there should be a problem. I think the presentation of the data should be so that it would be relatively easy, at any rate for an underdeveloped software that treats the public data of the council in a much better way, I say better way. It would take less time, it would be better out, it would be more useful, etc., it would simply be better. I note that this is true in general. But especially when it comes to government money, numbers, lots of numbers, natural, you would have thought it was particularly important and, in fact, simple to have the presentation of the data so that you could easily create software that uses these numbers, they compare, etc. Now I've simply never been on the budget, so I admit that I don't know how complicated the project is, but I don't know what software they already use or what tool they have. But if I look at this as a computer nerd, I can't better see that there's a lot to do here, both in terms of Congress in general and in terms of the government. For example, I opened the bill we are discussing here, the final financial law, and I looked over it and found it on page 6. 85. Then one blank page, followed by a piece of paper, was on my side so that I would have to turn it in order to read it. It's not a big problem, it's not a big deal to figure out, but it's old-fashioned, you're not used to handling numbers in this way. You are much more accustomed to putting them in a table program or to some other software, some sort of accounting software. I'd have somehow thought it had gone further, but it's not for some reason I don't know, so I can't judge it in any responsible way. But I think it's important that we keep it safe, from the important discussion on how we should spend the money of the state and how we should acquire it, that the transparency is the fact that the data are available to the public and in format that the public can use, and especially the individual experts in a town that has a little time to make something new and tailored that we members of the council do not quickly think of or that state's institutions. There is really no further reason for me to discuss the final budget at this time. Much is now being discussed and will likely be discussed when it comes to discussing how to manage funds. Of course, you have many opinions about that, but I'm having a very detailed discussion with them at this time. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u83	Mr. President. Neither will I extend this discussion much, but I would like to agree with it. A senator when he speaks of the need to be more accessible. We've been through this before. The budget board, because it's not just about the budget bill, the financial bill, and the bill for the final law that it is difficult to look up in the public, but it's often when we have to go through it. It's a legal committee. We hope that when a new government law is adopted, there will be a better format and available access to these data, even if only one of the baseline values under the public financial bill is transparent. It also matters that the bills are presented in such a way that we understand what it says, both we who have to work with the data and as common people, because the laws we are here are so important to the lives of everyone in the community. They should be accessible and easy to pass through. I couldn't change this in my time at the Ministry of finance, but we all have to work on changing this, and as I say, I hope it will happen in the new laws on public finance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u84	A respectable president. I wondered exactly what it takes, and it's that all the adults involved are completely pregnant because it's complicated and difficult to change complex and functional systems in general, whether it's software systems or something else. At least I think it's a very positive step taken during the last term, to open up the data and put it into computerized form. I know it's the time of day. A minister was criticized for not setting this up in a better way for the average computer user who wants to see a tomb and cake tract and something else. Of course, the presentation is very positive, but the main issue is that the data are computerized so that non - state data can be the best way to identify them. I think it's really farsighted, and it's also the most beneficial transparency, because if the State is always looking at itself and personal data, it's with a different mind than if someone else in town is going to look at it from a different angle but what the council and the state can do for their own sake. I reiterate that I thought it was a very important step during the last terms, and I hope that they will continue and this will be some time so that, in fact, anyone can basically figure out how the budget and the last budget laws and all that works, may not be able to get all of this completely clean, rather than even the most skilled experts, but understand easier large figures and large numbers and the context of large numbers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u85	Mr. President. I'm going to start by saying, "What?" paritaprevir The Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson and Pirata policy of making budgets and money bills and the data needed to understand them. This is the thought that I was a bit exotic at the time, and I thought about it considerably, but I think it's the right course. It is up to the citizens to know how all the hundreds of billions of dollars that the Kingdom will bring on them in as their income is spent. It should be possible to access it online, not only to see the numbers and the lawsuits, but also to the information behind what one is. It's very important. When I sat down a young senator on a budgetary committee, it was a huge job to get into ◯terminia, by permission of a president, and how to look for a financial bill of extraordinary sizes and lawsuits, it was difficult. And still a man is in attendance at senators who may have sat a long time and may not find their way through that maze so easily. At that time, it could only be done with some special help. But people should be able to go into the bills slowly outside the city, into the state bill, loans and finals, and see what they want, so they can get some sort of at least. a reference or complete view of what it is about. But I would like to ask. A senator because he is part of a political movement that has fought for this in Reykjavík City: How has this given way to them, and what level is it there?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u86	A respectable president. I have to confess a considerable lack of knowledge of how things are being done from a technical point of view in the city. There's a computer from ours where it's probably given a strong view. The little I know about the systems is that they don't seem to be assuming computerization, they don't seem to assume that the city's data are being handled primarily electronically. That's typical. It's not a problem that's unique to the State in itself. It's simply a result of the fact that it's an old process that just doesn't fit into something that's completely cut and cut, like mathematics and computer science, which is almost all of it. It's not until you get into a pump with artificial intelligence that this wall is broken. This is always a problem, especially when the work has been done for decades or years together, or what it is now, as a basis for human judgment. Simple things, such as spelling errors that humans can easily pass through, are far more difficult for computers, not insurmountable than much more difficult and easily entangles them. Simple things such as whether there is a paper in a bill ends with a point or not, which font is used can get in the way. All kinds of details that people don't put into, they do a lot for computers. Computers are dumb in themselves and have no human judgment, perhaps fortunately. As I say, I don't know the city's affairs except in that, like others, I have problems like this, and when it comes to the financial affairs of the city, I have to admit that I know even less about them than I know what's going on with them. However, the rural communities, at least in the city, and the Council operates in different ways. I was surprised when I began to have more contact with our city councilman how different things are, how different things are, how different there are with the General and the local government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u87	Madam President. I've sat in the mayor's office and I've been to Congress and I can promise you why. Because being here is much more fun than being here, but there is another story. I'm going to ask him never to succumb to the temptation to volunteer to the local government, the most pathetic part of any politician is to be in my part of the city's administration. Whatever it is. A senator was saying, or I understood it that way, for example, in Reykjavík, U.S.A., where the official policy is to pick up an open account that the city can look at if it is technically demanding. Computer systems may need to be replaced and at considerable cost. Then I'd like to ask, which I'm sure of. A senator knows more about and has examined: Would it be a huge cost, on which many technical goals would it take a long time to change the Kingdom system in the way we've been talking about here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u88	A respectable president. It is true that I know far more about the way these things are being done with the state than with the city. I'm afraid to go to the analysis of it, evaluating time and cost of software is a huge piece of work, it's very difficult and typical that software projects are going past the deadlines and costs. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] However, the principal software that the State uses to a large extent specialised is the thought of taking into consideration the needs of the State. In fact, it has been a very long, difficult process, and it has been remembered how it has caused great political scandals, and in a single sense, it is telling the way around it all. I think it's worth a lot of looking at the future with a lot of criticism because sooner or later we'll divide it, and sooner or later we'll do something else, and it's good to have learned from experience and experience. I could stand here and criticize all around it for a long time and really whether it is technical or otherwise. It remains to have it published in a way that makes it easier for the public to use it. It is a dual task, not just a question of what software is being used, but a question of how a project is done and how it can be tailored to the computer. One of the most difficult things for the administration is to change operations in a way that they threw away computers better than even the people who are going to follow them. The problem is often the big problem, and there are very often the biggest mistakes when it comes to electricalization of various data or processes. I am afraid not to appreciate it here and now how costly or time - consuming such a work would be, either here or in the city. I would rather suggest that it would be a special task to find out and to try to do it well and with regard to experience, as I say, experience is very much and less so than beautiful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u89	V.E.G. President. I recommend to the Committee on General and Education Committee on this key matter regarding the district attorney. The main purpose of this bill is to move mostly from the office of the governor to the governor and the district attorney to the district attorney and that the post of a special prosecutor should move to the district attorney. Then the bill suggests that there will continue to be two-step prosecutions in this country, not three, as we have already discussed in this council hall, and no, no. 88/2008. The governor will be the district attorney, but the office of the district attorney will be at a lower level of prosecution. The Commission will oversee the research projects and the charges of economic crimes committed by a special prosecutor today, as well as the additional research needed from the office of the head of the tax. It is then assumed that the district attorney will be receiving a report on the basis of a law on how to operate against money-students, which was considered on the committee, as well as the funding of terrorism, and that this project will be carried out by the government's money management office. Then it is suggested that one of the offices of the district attorney must be reassigned and recorded illegally benefit from any form of criminal conduct associated with police research regarding his office and other police office. It is assumed that because of the alleged criminal conduct of police officials, the DA's work will be brought to the district attorney and the task now to investigate the violation of the government will be moved from general police service to the office of the local district attorney. We discussed police research quite a bit in the Committee, but in 25 C.E. The bill is expected to change above 8. Police law. In discussing the case of the committee, it was reported that there would be a clear explanation for cooperation between the district attorney and the police chief, such as the local district attorney's sources and the police authorities for the reporting of the cases. We agree with that viewpoint and therefore make adjustments in this specific article of the bill. There was a good deal of work on the 3 mg. a-arms 25. The bill on the money-scrap and terrorist funding. According to one U.S. Marshal's review, the bill did not clearly predict the implementation of such reports or the communication of information to others in the community. It referred to the European Commission's directives and recommendations from an international task force, FAFF, where we found international and leading standards of protection against money theft and funding of crime. We signed up to suggest that the role of the proposed office might be better defined as money laundering and that certain changes could be made. Then I think that it was a good point to mention that on the committee it was necessary to state that there would be a separation between the employees of the office working on reception, analysis, and investigation based on the legislation on the actions of the money industry and the funding of terrorism and other employees of the office, before such reports have been evaluated and sent formally to study because of the proposed criminal offenses. But we're going to make it in 2 mg. a-arms 1.mg. 25. magazines are given to local prosecutors the same work that special prosecutors have been given in current laws. Therefore, there are no changes to this product, i.e. that the task of a planned office will be the same in the field of tax and economic crime as at this particular district attorney. We attend our committee party a great deal over a tax lawbreaker study, and we recommend that the bill has no change in the interaction between the tax investigator and the police regarding the current tax research. We spoke a great deal of the commission on the authority of the police and who should have that authority. This is discussed in paragraph 26. The bill and I would like to point out that we will take the matter into a committee between discussions to consider this point better. I suppose there will be a change from the Committee in this regard, and therefore I don't think it should be to tear it down here, but will do so on the committee, deal more with it there, and then review that motion when it comes to the conference. We covered a lot of police charges. In the 28th C.E. The bill is suggested that the district attorney be assigned the task now to the district attorney, to accept charges concerning the criminal violation of the police's work and to take the case into consideration. There was quite a lot of discussion on this point. We noted that December 30th, the U.S. secretary of the I.A. government, the highest officer of the police in the country, sent a letter indicating indications that police activities are being monitored. The minister ordered a hearing on charges and complaints against the police. It appoints the Committee to evaluate the current systems and laws and to make recommendations to change repairs and adjustments, as appropriate. We can expect the committee to give up, and we need to consider the results of the committee when they see the suggestions for the day. The committee was assigned to make a suggestion to open, accessible, and more efficient system consisting of receiving and dispensing complaints and charges relating to police activities, follow-up due to U.S. DA's comment on police work and police initiative surveillance. This committee should also consider how these matters are handled in the neighborhood. We on the General and Education Committee have discussed this a lot and may have wanted to do a little more research on this and have already made further adjustments, but we believe that it is right to wait for the committee to give up and be glad that this is a point of view and that it is very important that this work should be accelerated. It is quite clear that the bill of this magnitude is leading to significant changes in the economic situation of the institutions involved in this issue. There were some comments on this. Since police officers will be charged with appeals for more crimes than they now do, several authorities felt that further legal rights would be needed in light of the office of the state of the state where a great lawsuit would be held, especially by the state prosecutor's office. The office has come to us on the committee and described the situation, and it is clear that there is quite a bit of it. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Can I get a little better silence in this room to the side of the room? We realize that it is important that this new office be made up of sufficient resources and sufficient resources to carry out the vital work assigned to the office. In addition, it is very important that the knowledge that has been based on the economic and tax charges is maintained and that changes do not result in further delay in payment and investigation, and the duration of treatment will not be further extended. Of course, it is our hope that when these changes occur, all of this work for itself, but it is quite clear that during the transition, there is no chance that there will be a lower rate of speech, and therefore appropriate measures must be taken. The bill arranged for a time of validity. We suggested that the execution be delayed to July 15th. Clearly, this is the second factor that the committee intends to consider between discussions and the realization that we need to change the set of values again because we have fallen on time. Of course, it takes time to make these adjustments. In very short terms, the financial impact. There was concern about the district attorney, and there was a need for special attention to the increased projects assigned to the office. However, the main purpose of the bill is to support the surveillance position of the State Attorney by the conduct of a prosecution in lower courts of the prosecution. This monitoring role includes further work at the office, and we believe that if you expect less money transfers from the state attorney to the new office, it must be met with new resources for the new district attorney. We believe that the entire budget of the prosecution's budget is needed as a result of these changes made by the bill, in a careful manner. Thus, we believe that the criteria we tore up here and that show up in cost money will be re-evaluated when the law is carried out and people have come to a better understanding of how they have made the changes and what the funds they already need to do in the current situation. Madam President. As I've said before, I wish this case would go back to a committee on account of the two things we're going to take a closer look at, i.e. Regarding the people who are responsible for the prosecution's use of the validation date and date.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u90	Madam President. I'm just gonna come into this thing that's a big deal, like what's happened. A senator and president of the General and Education Committee came in. We need to take it into account, including the discussion. out of two things, as she rightly crossed. On the one hand, the identity of the police authority must be reviewed, and on the other hand, the time with regard to the execution of these laws is really expired. It's also about what I've been discussing in another place and about putting down the office of a special prosecutor, whom I don't think it's time to do, no more than the Bank Office. Still, there are a lot of good things in this opinion and the bill. I am writing under the Commission's opinion of funding because I feel that this interjugation in which we are setting up may come to a very good, short procedure, which I think is needed in this country, that it will hopefully be less heavy. It is also noted in the opinion of the U.S. district attorney that there is far more work to be done than has been done so far. That is why it is important to ensure that funds follow. They're talking about a lot of money already going into the office of state prosecutors and special prosecutors who, of course, are having heavy cases that are still working. We remain very numerous cases with the district attorney, especially with regard to sexual abuses against children. The district attorney has established both the financier and the Board of Education and the Board of Education and the Board of Education, saying that it takes more money to ensure a higher level of speech in the current issues. That's why I think, despite the money that's supposed to come from the fact that a special prosecutor's office will be laid down, as is just attributed, so much more has to be done. The figure is 325 million. They are not expected. So I don't fully understand how this is going to go for years, and next year, I'll expect to make more money. I think the main thing is, by doing this, that we're actually agreeing to add extra stress to the district attorney without planning to pay enough for it. The office is already in bad shape about the speed of words, as I said about sexual misconduct against children. I think we're all agreed that we want to get the things that all of us go through the process. Our conversation with the relevant parties showed that this was really unacceptable, but in general the members of these cases are satisfied with the process being under way, i.e. this change. Some wanted to go further and go to a third degree, which is not available today, but they had already drawn up and assumed. I think we need to sit over it a little bit. At least it's not easy for me to agree on this as far as funding is concerned. I agree with what the chairman of the Committee said that it is very important in the very process of decommissioning the second office and the task being carried out that it goes through man - made culture, knowledge, and other such factors that have developed in the special cases that have entered into the special prosecutor's hands. We still have big issues going on, as we know from the media. When a special prosecutor approached us, he felt that he needed a year to finish those matters, and he was referring, not to other matters that have been received at that time, but only to those big ones. It seems to me that we're well on our way into the year so we can make this work. The budget needs to be reviewed anyway. Of course, it's a question of whether we suggest that we simply point this into a budget or whether we will just give it a little more attention here and make sure it's no better than it's done here. It's not enough to get the rights done, I also feel that there needs to be the speed to be on if this is going to work. That, of course, is to increase speech speed as many as possible and not all of them have to go all the way to the Supreme Court. In fact, it is the purpose that the district courts can take them in, finish things, and do not need to continue. They can be completed in the early stages. Of course, it takes men, and it does not give us money. Madam President. I'm not gonna talk about this any more. I say, like the Chairman, we're taking the help of a police authority that we talked about quite extensively and we've decided to revise, and then we're going to talk about the change that I think will be improving.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u91	A respectable president. It's the best thing to do. I'm one of those who want to go a little further towards police surveillance and I think it's very important to have three points of judgment, but to say, of course, this case is a sign that it's called to work as in a number of other categories, so you may not take in any change you would like to take at this stage. Happily, these issues are under constant observation and are constantly being tried to improve that I like very much. I think it is necessary to file a discussion on this matter that we piranha have proposed a concierge proposal for independent police control of the activities and practices of which we see for ourselves an independent agency on this project and in the role of starting an investigation on its own initiative and taking charge of individuals who feel that the police have violated their rights. And it is worth noting to mention that this is absolutely the fact that police officers are being born in themselves. Two other factors I think are extremely important in improving the city's legal standing with the police, which is that police officers do not pay people, nor do they get paid properly. I insist that much pressure, heat, and the fact that police officers experience their work, which unappreciatively increase the likelihood of having an unpleasant relationship with citizens. Of course, they're all just people. I just know it from my work here, if I'm under a lot of pressure and time pressure and I think everything is unfair and annoying, it's much harder to talk about your language, it's a lot harder to work organized and professionally, and from some integrity when you're in situations where you're suffering a lack of appreciation and lack of understanding. I find it very important that the idea of an independent police surveillance is made clear, not in itself, to criticize the police, but much rather a suggestion to be prepared for this so that the rights of the citizens are to the best of their rights and that police have the best guidance and best opportunity to provide their services without any unpleasant communication with citizens. So I'd like to emphasize that all such ideas are not only for civilians against the police but also for the police itself. I loved it when I moved the matter to rest. A deputy member of the Independence Party, who is a former chief police officer, came after me and adopted the synonym. I loved it, because it's like I don't say much to the police myself. She would do very well in her own work to see that an independent agency was guided, and many of these doubts would be clarified. I'd like to say that in a small community in Iceland we often have a lot of problems that might be treated differently in communities that are much bigger and more diverse. I think in Iceland, in general, not only in the police but in general, there is a tendency in every industry, in every field of service within certain groups, to have some form of friendship, and that makes me think that there are various kinds of institutions, not only of police but also of the Generals and many others, much more difficult and really less difficult. For these reasons, I think it is very wise to have an independent agency for these things. Somehow, too, people do not see themselves as other people see them. You just look out your eyes, like I say sometimes. The same applies to the police, except the police are a special agency in that they are the only organization that has the authority to use violence. Of course, that's because it's necessary, as everyone knows. That is why it is very important that we not save when it comes to protecting the rights of our citizens from such institutions. Then again and again, I reiterate that this is entirely thought to help the police to do their jobs in the most peaceful and mostly cooperation with citizens, especially the difficult ones. If the clients that the police experience as difficult or just trying to do are difficult, we know that there are difficult people, if they experience their legal standing as strong, if they experience the party so that they have access to seeking their rights, not just because of the alleged violations that individual policemen could commit, but simply whether the right sort of work was held in honor, it makes things easier. That's one of our proposals for independent police control, and the way the police operates, that's also investigating how the work is simply, whether it's strictly illegal or not. There is really no more that I wanted to say about this subject. I think it'll do better if there's a lot of work left to do. I can't wait to see what comes from work. A committee that deals with the lawsuits like what? The head of the General and Education Committee went in here earlier. Then I expect that the council concluded by the proposal that I mentioned needs to come back to the next assembly, since it will probably not be done at this council due to a lack of time. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u92	V.E.G. President. I recommend this committee party as the highest level. President introduced. This figure assumes that changes will be made in various aspects of the law. The objective of this bill is to increase the effectiveness of judicial management by simplifying the rules and increasing the pace of court treatment. In the 18th. The bill that we specifically address is recommended that the reporting of broken - down cases less than 15 years of age be performed in a specialised facility for receiving reports of children that are located outside the courthouse, which is now in a so - called child's house. Only an exception can be made from this principle if the interests of its violation are required. The decision must be based on the better - paying value of the child's interests. Various commentators pointed out that this was a lower age limit from 18 years to 15 years from under criminal treatment. They believed that this was a decline in the rights of children, but we covered it a great deal on the Committee, and the rule is, of course, that the age of justice is 15 years in this country, so it was considered appropriate to list this particular authority on that age limit. This is a variation from the criminal principle of intermediate evidence, but by intermediate evidence, it is meant that the same judge cares for the treatment of a case from the beginning to the end, including the release of it from before the judgment. The rule means that the judge who judges will take records of the accused and the witnesses and also have other evidence for him to ensure that the right conclusion is in each case. It was also noted that the obligation of the judges to always sign off to an individual with expertise in the affairs of children to assist with reporting, but we agree in our panel that the changes suggested here are only to strengthen the existing authority in the law so that reports of children under 15 years of age will always be made in special facilities unless it is clear that the child's best interest to do otherwise. A judge directs and chooses them and evaluates which skills to help with reporting. I'd like to draw attention to the point where there are four downs. Councilmen in advance of the opinion, i.e. Guðbjartur Hannesson, Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, and Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson son. They feel that it is proper to use the word "childhouse " or other special housing, i.e. then the house of the children with a large b, and the children's house gives law ground to strengthen its function; and this is shown at the end of this committee. We also refer to the Commission as to the maximum duration of charges. In recent years, we have seen that charges may become quite long, and it is a principle that charges should be short and clear. It was noted in the U.S. attorney general's review that it would be preferable to provide guidelines on the length of charges. The local prosecutor's office pointed out that it would often require more charges than it would take, and it will go for, for example, a big cash. Instead of setting up a rule on the maximum length of charges, standards for the maximum length would be set, so that it would be logical if needed to accuse a matter longer than the rules of the court. We discussed this considerably in the committee and believe that it is necessary for a court order to establish these rules, but we suggest that the length of the charges can be taken into account in each case. The Council of Justice may consult with the office of special prosecutors, prosecutors and legalists in building such regulations. 161 st. The criminal law is called out loud orders, and we discussed that aspect of the committee. In the sentence of the criminal law, an adjustment in wording was made and was intended at the time that the change would not interfere with its interpretation. However, it has been found that the Supreme Court interprets this provision according to the words, and it has unmarked language that is judged by the law. Therefore, we suggest a change in wording so that an outing may be dealt with, even if the defendant has met with the body of Congress, according to a legal case, if his attendance is dropped on the subject later. This is a technical point, which is important, however, in view of the Supreme Court judgment. We covered quite a bit about 27. g., for re-writeing on the due judgment in confessions. It suggests that judgment words are read in the same council, and the defendant's position is established. The reviewers we met were positive, but they believed that a copy needed to be completed within a certain period of time so that it was clear what time it was. So we make adjustments. Twenty-nineth. will be discussed in the retrospect. This is a general permission to repeat when there are conditions listed at 1 mg. 211st par. There is criminal justice, but it is suggested that a marriage mate, children, parents, or siblings of the deceased be permitted to request a hearing to be repeated. It was noted that there may have to be objective conditions for reimbursement, especially in the age of the requested cases and that it would have to be made clear what is specifically involved. The committee discussed this extensively and points out that the applicant will have the same legal status as the court's case, i.e. The applicant has the right to obtain an appointed lawyer, and the same rules will apply to his expenses. We also state, and it is very important that the Committee to Re-Elect is an independent administrative committee and we believe that it is justified in establishing procedures on what might be considered to be a matter of special interest. Finally, we're going to make a set of modifications for the recording so that the bill, if legal, will take effect on 1st August next. This is so that time is set aside to set the rules needed to set because of these changes, i.e. For the treatment of lawsuits and the release of judgments. We also suggest that there be a special law code on the basis of changing regulations on charges to the Supreme Court. Legal changes are a few that are smart here in a new proposal by the committee's opinion. After that, we suggest that the bill be approved by the changes presented here. I had earlier made an explanation for what to do. The members of the assembly of the Guðbjartur of Great Hannesson, the Bjarkey of Olsen, the daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, and Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, the son of Gunns, are also signing this under the name of the committee, the Líneik Sævarsdóttir Anna, Arnardóttir Eagledótir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, and Vilhjálmur, the Árnason of Aarna.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u93	Madam President. I'm just going to come into this matter, which is a bill to correct a law on civil treatment, criminal treatment laws, the laws on conduct, bankruptcy laws, and other legal laws (simplified rights). So long it was. We in the smaller part of the General and Education Committee, as mentioned by the executive, have signed a warning to the Children's House, but I'm just going to go through before I get to it. The whole thing is very good. There are many ways to strengthen a child's position, but perhaps not enough for us. We discussed that very much on the committee, not just the age limit. Despite being 15 years of age, of course, the question is, Should it change the law? We need to watch a little bit of the overall code of law, but why do we have one here and another here, here we see children until they're 18 years old, but it's just for us. Then I'm referring to the fact that when reports are being taken from children, those older than 15 years of age don't have special housing or anything like that. Of course, it may be burdensome to take reports of children who have faced difficult situations and even have to travel to Reykjavík, have been broken out of the country, or are traveling on an extra trip to the person to whom the matter is turning. Thus, it may be twofold that special housing is not expected in the parts of the land, in the largest courts, or something like that. It refers only to special housing, but we, who made this warning, considered it more proper to use the word "Barnaum " or other special facilities to strengthen the function of a children's house. Yet, we do not consider there to be enough special facilities for children who have been affected, may be in a different setting than a courthouse or a police station. It also discusses the maximum duration of charges. The local prosecutor's office wanted to avoid making rules on the maximum length of charges and wanted a reference to the maximum length that would open the possibility to support the need for an accusation to be longer than the court's rules. It was like most of the people mentioned in this matter. The committee did not agree with this, thinking that there would be a need for rules about this. This is because we now have large cases, such as we know who have been on the tables of the courts and the charges are virtually in the form of literature, these are not even reports, they have become so rude that they are basically meant to stretch on lawsuits and so on. You can understand the motivation that may have to be reversed. However, the Council of Justice is suggested to consult with the office of special prosecutors, district attorneys, and attorneys on the rules to set this issue. This will be discussed in the general handling of a court ordering case. To me, who had the first legal case in this committee, but we've been discussing things, and there were many things in the language, and this was one of them. The commission suggests that the word change, with the permission of the president, may be handled by an outing court, even if the defendant has met with Congress, according to legal release, if a Congress hearing falls off on his part in the afternoon. One asked himself, " What does this mean in English? ' There was good reason to discuss this, and this actually means that whether the person attends the hearing or not at the previous or later points, he can be judged. I thought it would be nice to go through, and I realized this because, of course, this is primarily legal language that this matter of the case in the general sense. Twenty-seventh. discusses judicial solutions from a local court, in terms of reenactment. This is also one of the things you may not wonder about every day that judgment words are read in the same council, i.e. as soon as the defendant's position is established, a word of judgment can be read over him. Of course, there must be a reenactment of a court order, but there were no rules for the phrase to be written within a certain period of time. It was requested that this be changed, and the committee agreed and suggested that a review of the court be completed within a week of his appointment. So in the end, it's a respectable president, a change in the subject of re-entry. Although this is not opening up for centuries again, we are strengthening the rights of the people to handle matters that are very old and even the ones that have fallen away. All who apply for this should have the same legal status as the one who was sentenced to the case, the right to obtain an appointed lawyer, and the cost of doing so would be the same as if the person to whom the case was appealed or judged would have appealed. It is true that the Re-Election Committee is an independent administrative committee and needs to establish a protocol for which the cases can be settled, as I mentioned here, people can ask for an X-long case back in time or a certain case, but it is in the hands of a re-electory committee to determine whether they fall within the rules that this law is intended to take into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u94	Madam President. I remember that earlier this winter, there were some very perturbed discussions, including... ... inexperienceofthem. paritaprevir Geir Jón Þórisson, the need to establish more intensive police surveillance. In many cases it is delicate and often a controversy arises over the conduct of the police. I especially refer to recent conflicts and even protests in other countries. Happily, we have the good fortune that the Icelandic police always display the most excellent way of life. However, I noticed this in the discussion that I was referring to. A senator named Geir Jón Þórisson, a police officer and one of our most experienced police officers, felt that such a surveillance would be desirable in some way. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament, for this was shown in the discussion that this was just an argument within the committee: What is the position? A senator? Is it enough, as mentioned in the committee's opinion, that there is a group of people to consider this? I'm not going to find out that he has some last day to return. Second, I ask why. A member of the Parliament is willing to agree with the financial management of these changes. They include the cost of new projects to the district attorney; police officials receive new assignments; it is clear that this cost a considerable amount of money. That's what happened. An authority that these changes are to be made in the middle of the year, August 1, if I heard correctly. It is also stated in the Committee that the overall analysis of sector amount is not even available. Is this all going to be in the open?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u95	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. That's the thing we just finished earlier, so what? A senator is aware of this, but I am willing to answer the questions raised here because this is exactly what I drew attention to. I was on the committee as a friend. paritaprevir Geir Jón Þórisson was in. He was at a council at the time when it was important to get insight into, like a dog. A senator mentioned, his experience, and his work on police surveillance. I think the police like others are good because extramarital care is the focus of their work and their equipment. Of course, we would like to be well treated with complaints made by the police because of their actions or actions so that the police can continue to protect us as citizens and the community as such. This bill here will deal with it only in part, like a what. A senator pointed out that this law is still under consideration. But we must follow it, our role on the committee is to do so. As for the financial side, that is exactly why I sign it in advance. Hv. A senator, a member of the council. paritaprevir Össur's Aphrodin Skarphéðinsson, he was absent there, but I know he had a similar warning as I did about the financing. In my speech earlier, I made a good point of saying that I'm not happy with being put down here, it is known that the district attorney is already in a difficult position. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u96	V.E.G. President. I recommend the Committee's bill to correct the genetic conversion of the Northern treaties and the exchange of the population of the dead. This bill is suggested to validate a contract signed by Iceland, Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden in 2012 regarding the change in government contract from November 1934 to genetics and exchange of dying people. The treaty accepts the situation when a citizen in one of the Norwegian countries is about to die in another Norwegian country. The major material change involved in this contract is the rules to live by. The principle in the old contract, i.e. From 1934, a five - year rule that involves applying the rules of the home setting should be used if the deceased lived there in at least Five years before you die. In accordance with the terms of the new agreement, the principle will remain, but it is authorized that a successor can state in his will to enforce the rules of statehood. The committee suggests that this bill will be accepted as unchanged. Under this opinion, the one listed here writes a letter. Councilmen Páll Valur Björnsson, Arnardóttir Lára Arnardótttir, Guðbjartur Hannesson, Anna María the Elíasdóttir of Elias, Bjarkey Olsen, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, and Geir Jón son of Þórisson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u97	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend the Committee on Environment and Transport... a review of the change in shipping laws. The committee met Gunnar Örn Indriðason and Björn Freyr Björnsson from the Internal Affairs Department, and received a single report from the tourist Association that supported the case in her opinion. The bill suggests changes in navigation laws, No. 34/1985, for the induction of two EEA types in Icelandic rights. On one hand, arrangements are made for the transport of passengers and their luggage to sea. In this way, the Athenia'Convention is enlarged to include national victories in the EEA. The effectiveness of the Regulation in Iceland will not likely be large, since most passengers who sail with Iceland are not within the scope of Regulation. We are less than likely to walk because we are permitted to skip classes C, D and E and vary in how the European countries have introduced this directive. We're walking as close as we can. However, it is suggested to the bill that a penalty warrant be sued by a disqualifyer to secure his ship. When the directive was introduced, it failed to pick up the directive's penalty warrant and is the bill to correct it. It's been a long time since the committee took care of this case, and at the time since the committee was finished it was believed that this would only be for General Christmas, Dags, and Baldurs, who are correct, I had it checked specifically whether this had anyone and then the effect on a new tourism service that sails around the country on a ship called Ocean Diamond. We, me and the Ministry, talked that this would not have a major impact on them or on their passenger transport. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under the Vilhjálmur, the person standing here writes. The men of Höskuldur the Árnason of Þórhallsson, the daughter of Katrín, the Svavarsdóttir of Jakobsdóttir in advance, Birgir the Hirst of the Elín, and Róbert Marshall in advance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-25-137.u98	V.E.G. President. In this matter of the number of Supreme Court judges, I recommend the Commission's members. This bill suggests a temporary increase in the number of judges in the Supreme Court from nine to ten starting September 1, 2015. This release is temporary and assumed to fall on December 31, 2016. It was noted in the Committee that the pressures at the Supreme Court were largely due to the number of languages, and the work was also more difficult. Things that are rooted in the collapse of the financial system and its consequences are still being treated by the courts. We are entitled to the Commission to say that it is reported in the 2014 Supreme Court report that there have been no more reports of new issues. In 2014 the number of cases increased by 36 from the previous year to 111 cases, i.e. 13% more than the average 2008◯2013 year. Personal relations have also increased substantially and are 96, i.e. 33% more than the average years I was here. In view of the importance of maintaining a proper level of speech, we feel that the bill will be successful and suggest that it will be agreed as unchanged. Under this opinion, the writer of the article "What Is Here? " Councilmen Páll Valur Björnsson, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Arnardóttir Earnardóttir, Guðbjartur Hannesson, Mnæn Helgi Hrafn of Gunnarsson, Anna María the daughter of Elíasdóttir, Bjarkey Olsen, daughter of Gunnarsdóttir, and Þórisson Jón,
