ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u1	Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 1256, about the landing of aircraft at Keflavík Airport and the reserve airports, from Helgi Hrannsson's Hrafn Gunnarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u2	V.E.G. President. I'm growing worried about the position of disabled people and disability in the community and the way the General Assembly is in charge. Once again, there are reports of an empty interpretation fund, so those who have to use interpreters cannot get into the community in a natural way. The long-term programme shows that when it comes to terms of government spending at first, it was to increase the social security benefits by 3.5% this year, but the result was that the Council reduced to 3%, which is naturally shameful, and that plans for annual increases would be expected to be only 1% above inflation forecasts. The positive news is now coming from a labour market that, more fortunately, treaties seem to be gaining a substantial increase in the lowest salary. I'm just really worried that there's gonna be a total shut-down here, i.e. that desperate and disabled people will be left entirely behind. To that end, we who work at the General Assembly must make sure that enough money is assured into the social security system so that social security benefits can be increased so that those who have to rely on that money can live a decent life.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u3	V.E.G. President. In the news of those days, we hear of individuals and families who have suffered severe economic ruin. We hear that 81% of those who lost their home on an forced sale in the Southnes of 2008-2011 now live in a rented market. Many of them find it difficult to obtain a rented home because their name is on a black list. Creditinfo, making it difficult for them to get a roof over their heads. You see, there are tenants in this country who do not want to rent people and families who are in that situation. Looking at this number from Southnes, it is reported that half of these homes have children living on it. 45% of them had to change school because of circumstances, 32% of them lost contact with friends, 15% had to give up leisure and/or sports activities. Some reports show that a section of these individuals and families did not take advantage of the resources available during the last term for those who had a serious debt problem. And why might that have been? Could it be that these measures were intended for a significant audience, or were they not properly introduced? You ask yourself. At the same time in the news, it is very serious that the members who took advantage of the resources available, such as the U.S.A. Remuneration has been put on a black list. In response to a request I received some time ago or during the last assembly, it was noted that those who have gone into payment or a special debt adjustment are marked as such in the financial system for up to seven years despite having finished their course of debt. These facts show how important it was to go into general debt surgery, just as the advance party suggested right from 2009 and became a reality some time ago. This information also shows how important it is for all of us to put ourselves here on one occasion to bring home products through the council of families to help and the homes in such places, so that individuals have a real choice of living shapes in the domestic housing of families. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u4	Mr. President. I told my husband over the morning coffee that I was going to discuss the lack of discipline in the financial matters that were being carried out on the council today. Showing a small expression, he said: "It won't even find its way to the front page of the newspaper. And that is true, it will probably not be on the front page of the newspaper, but it should be on the front pages of the newspaper because of the lack of financial discipline, lack of long - term plans, and short - lived vision, there are bad consequences for people and businesses in the country. One measure of government discipline is how successful it is to keep budgets and to minimize any dissociation from financial contributions. During the last term, this anomaly was greatly reduced, but unfortunately, it seems to be getting out of control again and in the same place that we were in before a crash. Lack of careful policy management is a characteristic of the current highest level. Minister and it seems that there is little understanding for such work in the present government, and it is clear that the budget of 2015 will not be successful. The most recent clue was introduced to a budget board yesterday. On the budget, only 145 million are expected. K. in the travel - to - travel fund, even though each person has seen, when the greater part agreed on the budget, that it would do only for a few projects. Now it has been found to add 850 million to the tourist attractions and 1.8 billion to the maintenance of road roads. Both made the smaller item a suggestion, but most of it crashed. This shows, Mr. President, that the short-term thought that's at the highest level. The government will have an increased cost, just in this respect, because it is clear that if we had agreed on this in December and people could have planned the operation, it would have been less expensive than bringing this up here in the middle of the year when tourists are streaming to the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u5	Mr. President. It was just as if we were making budgets for the current year just prior to Christmas, both were critical of the lack and failure of money for building in tourist areas and in parks. The money wouldn't hold that low number. Nevertheless, the greater part shut down the budget, as it turns out. But now reports on a government decision to add 2.6/2.7 billion dollars, a substantial sum, to the pay of the high - stakes, of course pleasant for them, but the methodology can hardly be considered as the one that is considered by careful administrative administration or a disciplined government policy or financial contributions. So I want to ask the highest. The chairman of a legal committee I've warned that I'd like to have a place to say: First of all. This is now the second year, in a series of tourism projects, that will become a living position to be financed by means of a reserve. Is that a good rule? Is that a good development? Second of all. Not only are expenses being determined but the exchange to individual projects is being made by the Council and without the review process. Is that a good method? Third, please. The same is true of the roads. Not only is the amount being set out here but it is decided on what new roads it should take, by means of a means of transportation that has not been seen, and likely without transportation. Is this the government we want to see? Fourth, I'd like to ask you what. Chairman of a financial committee: How does this rhyme with the aim of improving administrative and discipline, according to a bill on public financial matters that is just here to be handled at the council? What score would be measured by the standard of the bill? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u6	A respectable president. It should be noted initially that before the council, there is a new cover on public financial matters. Today, the plan is here to discuss a national budget for the next four years, where the lines on the government's priorities for the future are laid. The senators who have observed the budget talk know that I am a great spokesman for the minimum use of the budget, but the changes that have been presented now point to the fact that the government is in the policy of setting priorities for the infrastructure. Most people should know that sensitive tourist sites are damaged, so I believe that this money is well arranged. We know exactly why this is happening now, that is because there is no agreement in the council for the payment of a natural pass bill. With the funding for the road making, I'm very happy, therefore, because the state of the road system of the country after the last term is said to be the least in the stocks, as no money spent in that category during the last term. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] In addition, increases were taken to the road model between 2 and 3rd. Since the council for the last New Year's Eve was in progress, it is clear where this government is headed. [[The president calls.]] As for the evaluation that these funds have been made to certain positions, this work has been carried out within the council, finding where the need is, and where the most urgent need is, so it is done on a very professional basis, this is not just done something in the air. In the case of the highest. The minister of finance when he introduced these measures to a financial committee made it clear that this was a single intervention that would be used in this way, and I welcome it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u7	A respectable president. Last night I talked about the government's plans to put more money in a tourist facility and I don't intend to have that word anymore, but I can't quite say, of course, because there's no evidence that a single - change operation is involved. I can then, as a minister of finance, order a thousand statues that will be written all over the country and say that there's a single-mutation operation and put it on the budget. There are natural logics that do not keep water. What I was going to do here is a bill that Siv Friðleifsdóttir's daughter moved when she sat at the council and is about to change the council. I've been thinking about reinculcating that language and talking to Siv, and we agree exactly with one more members of Congress, I know that we need to try to get some strings on the speaker's lesson, i.e. Plan it ahead so that our work will be more specific, and we will also try to prevent unnecessary communication, we can say. But it doesn't work if the smaller part doesn't get any weapons, so I use metaphorically. Pirats have spoken of the possibility that the council can get the authority to shoot matters in the National Code, one third of the council. It could be the kind of weapon the smaller part needs and would force governments to sit down with the smaller parts and go over the situation and try to settle matters, for it has not been so successful now to hurt the officials of the administrations in total with us as it is today. I think these two cases hang together, the bill that Siv had that's very good, I think, and the idea that Piratars may have been the most efficient person in promoting, which is that at the council, the Council, they can turn matters into a national law. I don't worry about it being overused, I don't think there's any danger of it, but I wonder if it's not something we should look at, and not wait for some universal reexamination of Congress laws to happen. It's taking way too long.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u8	V.E.G. President. I think it's safe to say that last night's Senate held a little easier. The decision was made by the president to postpone his discussion of a frame plan. At the very least, it could be said that it was a transition to a continuous discussion of matters where there is a sharpness. Councilmen took up uncontaminated material discussions, and I want to take advantage of the opportunity and agree with them. Councilmen who have praised a respectable president for this. It's like the highest. The president continues to announce the matter, but wait and hopefully we'll use it. Senators work well over the years to meet the challenges they have had. Where art is long, there are a number of cases. It is still a matter of coming from committees and expecting important matters into the council, such as the world's top housing plant. Social and housing minister and prime figures at the disposal of the cost-of-exploitor from the highest level. Secretary of finance. Of course, the situation in the workplace is with all of us, and success is very important. Granted, there is positive evidence to suggest that there is a break-in and a delight in seeing contracts of the VR, the Flea Community, and others with sectoral organizations that focus on increasing the lowest salary and defending intermediate income. It is the goals that have been set up, so it is certainly a joy to see and hear the positive news. Then there is the continuation of the Work Programme on a strike to increase optimism and hopefully come up with a positive report on government negotiations, but there is good reason to be watchful over the effects of long-term medical strikes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u9	V.E.G. President. Now that the two - year government of Sigmundur Davíð, the Gunnlaugsson of Gunnuga, has been ruling, there are many fine indications of evolution in society. All economics are positive, economic growth is seen in 4% of the next two years, employment initiatives have never been greater in Iceland, there have been thousands of jobs created in the last two years, unemployment declines, job structure has started after chaos. It is now a trust to build up in the tourism industry, to invest in fish industry and fishing industry with the related activities of contractors and businesses that are involved in the production of fish farms. Aggression has not been as low continuously since the start of measurements, as it were. Much of the success of the government's correction, which has brought to a family with a moderate income and a reduced income, has been reduced to a significant extent. The report then comes that now a step toward decommissioning the penitentiary can begin. All of this is positive evidence, positive news, and a fall into optimism and thus puts a struggle in the hearts. Hence, there is good reason to welcome all these good national clues, and they are the best way to spend the summer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u10	Mr. President. I was going to talk about everything else, but I'm going to discuss now because I'm kind of putting up with it as the chairman of a legal committee, and I'm not going to answer the questions that are addressed to it. Hv. A senator speaks extensively of discipline in terms of government matters and how to handle them. We in the lesser part support her in this, but we cannot accept that what was here being done reflects that discipline. It's interesting, too, when it happens. A senator and the chairman of a financial committee points out here that the natural pass was to become the source of income that did not put money into, for example, the travel - care fund, that's just not the case. The natural pass came for the first late inning, of course, to return revenues into the state funds so necessary to apply, wherever money should have gone and where it should have been. Not to answer the fact that we're going past the council, completely, in a decision-making process, i.e. where the money is to go and where it is devoted, it is clearly acceptable to her. We don't think so. On the one hand, when she speaks of the lack of transportation funds during the last term, it really means that you don't know what to say. I think there were about 80 billion these last term of transportation. However, nothing has been done for the remainder of this terms. The sound of the stratosphere was finished, they went to Hophar's Pass, they started on the Southland road, Kappos, the North Sea tunnel, to name just a few. [[For example, consider the plan of the West.]] Yes, there are so many projects. It's as has been said in some cases, Iceland record will probably be put on the move, but there will be Iceland record in not doing anything on transport now. V.E.G. The president told me at a meeting of the council groups, I think on Tuesday, that a policy of transportation was expected to arise, and I ask: "Where is it? Are you going to walk past the Council of Decisions? That's not acceptable. [[Up front.]] Is she here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u11	The President wants to inform us that the transport program was distributed yesterday and announced from here by the President's chair.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u12	Mr. President. Government officials have just come up here to measure the government's accomplishments. I don't think there's much to boast about, thanks to the fact that it hasn't done more than it has been done in the two years it's been in power and that the results of the previous government are better accomplished in low inflation and employment. Sometimes, as the government feels that it invented the bike from the year 2013 onward, it feels that there was nothing before, and people did not have to deal with the economic breakdown in the country. But I was going to come up here because the government's latest corruption in juju seems to be stirring up the tax system and dropping the middle phase. This step - change tax system, which was established in the last government, is designed to balance the country's terms and meet different income groups. You can say that there's nothing wrong with moving on to the tax percentage and moving something around, but there's only a hard right policy to stop an tax step, and it means that the tax burden gains more than weighted on that income. By reducing them, they are returning to their former values, as was the case in the case of the forwarding party and the Independence Party, where the tax burden on the lowest income, on intermediate groups, was raised immensely, it is just statistics that show it. Let us not forget that taxes are not just some taxing tool for evil government officials at one time or another. We're using the taxes to build a welfare system, transportation and education system. Let us not forget that. Clearly, this government is going to continue cutting down the education, welfare, and transportation systems by reducing taxes on that increase by tens of billions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u13	A respectable president. There are many good things to do in society. Conventiones on the general labour market are reaching. I'm especially glad that the lowest paid people are getting a lot of better supplies, the fish farmers who really deserve to pay ups are achieving the goals they set for these contracts, and I've talked about here many times. A respectable president. The government will work out the years during the negotiation and the highest. The secretary of finance is coming in at the right moment, measured by a good input that we all celebrate. These include changes in the tax system, which will lead to greater financial gains for those involved. There are also some ideas about reducing or taking tolls and other fees for import, which, of course, are important for consumers. It's really important, I'm stressing it. Surely, all of us rejoice that there are 1.8 billion on this year's roads and 850 million in the construction of tourist facilities. I think it must be a cause for rejoicing. We must be able to agree with it. I think it's very important that the road does get the money that's put in there. I'd also like to agree with the discussion I've heard, that we just need to figure out how much we're going to rot in the highlands. We're not supposed to rot around here forever. Of course, we need to discuss what we're going to see on the land. Are we going to grind north over explosion land? Is that what people are interested in? I think we need to see what course we're going to take. A respectable president. I hope that the positive waves that are now noted in the labour market and in the community are also relevant to this hall and contribute to a positive and positive spirit of completing the Senate work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u14	A respectable president. I can't believe it's coming here. Councilmen and claims that the welfare system of the current government has been cut down. [[Up in the hall: right.]] Each one can - hear, why. A senator walking by is simply lying. Anyone who wants to study this matter can do so by looking up some of the funds. The person who believes that by raising taxes, it means an infinite increase in income, I encourage the individual to visit societies that we certainly do not want to compare with. Here we will discuss the convention rules for all members of the council. It is most desirable if we can work together on some change of rules, we have tried to do so before, in order to make the matter more organized. However, we should keep in mind that it is not enough to change the rules; our attitude must change too. Of course, if a man is using the President's conference board now, it's a misuse of it, and it doesn't matter how much we change it, it's just a clean and clean misuse of that device. It's interesting to me that a group of Bjarts had a future that said that she was not going to be a painter has all been involved, except for what was. paritaprevir Óttar of Proppér. But I'm gonna talk about two things in these minutes. On the cover of the morning newspaper, there is a big report that the banks were sold without legal authority. This is the state bank administration, the one that has been very much discussed here, and I think it needs to be considered. However, there have also been recent reports on lobsters for foreign requirements in this country. I think we have to take the steps, like other nations that do, that the lesbians must announce themselves, that they must report for whom they operate. This is done in the European countries that we would like to compare ourselves with, as well as in the United States. It's obvious that, unfortunately, it had the highest power. The prime minister was right when he spoke of the way the demands were done here. [[The president calls.]] We have to have more transparency on this, and I'm gonna put it to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u15	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Þórðarson seemed to have quite a deal in the President's conference board to set the last term when he arrived 215 times in a public hearing, so speaking of the abuse of that phenomenon, you may need to look at yourself. But getting better men is the best thing to do. A respectable president. On May 19 of the past, we requested to be members of the United States Parliament and then to conduct the government post for a verbal report to be given here on the job post of the highest labour market. Prime Minister. I'd like to ask why it hasn't been done. I don't know that we have been answered either about when and whether that request will be answered and if it will be done to us. I think it's very important that we discuss these matters in here. While contracts are reaching the general market, there is still a dispute between the state and public employees. We also hear that the government is now thinking of turning aside from the course of viewing the tax system as a substitution device and starting to take out the middle phase. So it would be important for us to have a conversation about all of this. If not now, when would the prime minister be so embarrassed to come to the Hall of Congress and have a conversation with us members of the council? I'm concerned about the development if people are going to start reducing tax levels and disappear from the policy of using the tax system as a substitution device, especially in the light of the words that have been observed among those in OECD, where they made their report in December the last position that the world's economic system in the Western world would be more powerful if there were not so much dissociation that would identify them as such. correspondent in Britain [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We are not going to listen to that warning, but we are going to go back to the right course of policy and liberalism. [[The president calls.]] That's what worries me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u16	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir St. Pétursdóttir's daughter, by yesterday, made a mention of the government's butt account when it comes to the distribution of funds to tourist status, 850 million that has been determined by their generosity to enter that group during the last days of Congress despite the very grammatical criticism of the memory of the object in bringing money in the way during the past year, of which the lack of financial support for this was not to be prepared or planned or planned properly. In order to highlight the current government management layer, this is where two days remain of the AlCollis Work Programme, a proposal for a 4-year transport programme for 2015◯2018. When were you going to discuss that suggestion, a respectable president? When did people predict that an environmental and transport committee would take it into account in material matters? Why is this the case with fools? Why is this being done? Is it not reasonable that the prime minister just texted the roadmaker about what to do? The distribution of such a program on almost the end of the council day is, of course, nothing but contempt for the council. It is a total disregard for the Environment and Transport Committee, that is, in fact, being said, and also by the government's proposal for transport contributions, that the government did not trust the Parliament to discuss these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] She just doesn't feel that it has anything to do with members of Congress in any way. [[The president calls.]] When was the transport program to be considered?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u17	A respectable president. It is positive and happy if the labor movement is successful in moving forward tax reductions on the part of the government to support the development of collective agreements. These taxes include people with over 309 you have. K. each month and out of the income field, most of course for those with 700 you have. K. and more. This further underscores what I stressed yesterday, which is the importance of taking the interest in the terms of micro- and sensibilities as a result of these measures because the reasons for using the tax change are primarily to improve the interest of the intermediate income groups because the lowest paid people in the labour market are getting the largest increase out of the contracts. But that means that tens of thousands of Icelanders do not get a sludge from the tax change or from the collective agreements. It is the people whose primary trust is in the government insurance agency, and perhaps a negligible amount of money from the pension fund, i.e. invalids and pensioners who neither get the increases that the lowest paying people are getting nor enjoy any tax doctors, since they are less than 309 you. K. Therefore, I still insist that the body, the group, and the pensioners, be with 300 you. K. and less income per month will not be left behind when the issues involved in the tax and the minimum wage are up to 300 you. K. which everyone agrees that it is necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u18	Mr. President. We're here to vote for a convolutation proposal for an electrical line fixation. In the left green we strongly believe that nature protection laws are taken into account now on July 1 and that the perimeters around national parks and peaceful zones where high vision pollution can be caused by air lines. We also believe that comparison is made at the expense of a ground cord, and in some cases it will be increased, and the maximum percentage will be even higher than we say, three times compared to the cost of a line repair. We have adjustments in these materials that I will introduce to them when they are brought up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u19	A respectable president. We in the United States have a policy on the central highlands to become a national park. We therefore feel very important to be careful when it comes to the development of the electronic transport system. In the Conventional Reunion Directives here there are guidelines that can be interpreted to provide them to be less than the Commission of Environment and Resources has decided on an obligation to evaluate earthline to match air lines in the recent decision. So I don't think it's possible to agree with this proposal in this form. It's a cautionary possibility if an interpreter could be interpreted through the Councilship to be placed on top of the decision board. On the contrary, it is very important that we make it evident in the General's symposium that it is our firm will that we continue to support the development of electrical lines on the ground and that the option will always be fully explored as comparable to the repair of the airline. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u20	A respectable president. During the implementation of these two votes, the case as discussed and the next one, many positive changes have been made in the wishes of the less part of the council. Thank you, it's important. However, there is still a great deal of opinion that will cause us not to support these matters, nor will it interfere with their approval. We'll sit by, but we're happy with the changes made. It is important to remember that last year, Iceland's income from 303 billion foreign tourists was the income of 303 billion. 80% of these tourists came to the country to experience unregulated nature. There are views we need to keep in mind when it comes to this series of issues. This is because we want to move slowly, and we would have wanted more information on recent decisions, judgments, and opinions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u21	A respectable president. The highlands are very valuable. Iceland and I have the uniqueness that we have far larger unnoring areas than most of Europe. The pollution of electricity lines with the traditional transport equipment we now have been completely underestimated and it is very important that we consider that we can do things in other ways that will not harm the environment as much as we have, unfortunately, done in some places. This case is a factor in reducing the pollution of the environment, which is why I support it, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u22	Mr. President. This is where we put the left green to increase the cost of the earthline verse line, that it may be more expensive than the airline, and we recommend it. The majority certainly changed the cost ratio from 1.5 to 2. We do not think that this is enough, and we also have a warning that under certain circumstances the cost rate may be even higher; it needs to be weighed in a larger context on the comparisons but not just a limited, short chapter. We think it is very important to try to encourage the fixation of ground cables that are in many places, and to suggest that the cost rates are increased, three times more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u23	Mr. President. While it may quickly appear to be improving to increase the ratio from 1:1.5 to 1:2, it should be noted that the second number of changes in the model form, which now expires, and costs for the construction of the catacombs, to be taken into consideration. It can be questioned that when the cost is compared, it is, in effect, contrary to the overall success of the combined life - span of the workers. Thus, in the case of the earth cables, the cost of building is higher, but the cost of operating is lower. I'm sorry, but I think that if it was the point of emptying the ground wire rules, it might have failed by adding that number to the second. I don't trust myself to support what I would have done, though, if I had the conviction that this was an evacuation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u24	Mr. President. Here we recommend left green to make sure that the main transport system of electrical energy is determined on a case by case basis, if airline or ground cables are properly submitted, and that the main transport system is considered to justify the animal benefits, such as if there is a line route within defined urban areas and within areas where peace-staining nature mines are under nature protection and that the selection of line lines is specifically considered on the peripheral areas, peaceful areas, such as Lake Sevenlands. That's our suggestion in point two, and I think it's important to meet her and she agreed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u25	Mr. President. Here we add left green to add a new chapter, review of policy, as follows: ▪ The General concluded that a review of the protection laws of nature will be submitted and that the review will take place when it is completed. Thus, the definitions of new laws will influence policy, such as in nature protection areas and uninhabited habitats. We look at the center of the country and its sad ideas about setting a line over explosion land. We believe it is very important that our unmoved vastness, a jewel in Icelandic nature, is protected from all the lineworks.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u26	A respectable president. The attitude changes so rapidly in these issues that we are faced with recent decisions that show a whole new attitude on earth cables beyond ceilings, as well as on the decision made by the Environmental and Resource Commission, which proves that there are some legal barriers to ground cables above air lines. This requires that we think these matters completely from the bottom of the earth. The country's Internet payouts of tourism have tripled its share of industry. We must prioritize the protection of the central highlands and when we face it at the General Assembly that we have been arguing with the greater portion for two weeks, in which the condemnation of the greater part in activation initiatives in the middle of the country and that they are going out of their way to try to establish activations, contrary to laws and rules, in the Cradle and at Hague Lakes, we cannot vote with the rules of this greater part that have shown that he is prepared to wrong and mislead all the discussion of the highland protection. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u27	Mr. President. At the end of this vote, it is not possible to support this issue as it is available. There has been no objection to our viewpoint. We left green have tried to fix this case and have moved here a change of motion to the case. There is no recent Supreme Court or EFTA opinion. You are, in effect, moving on an old - fashioned policy, trying to get into the highland by linework and activation. So we're left-right- green, and I think time works with views like our left-green. We will do anything to prevent the destruction of the central highlands. Activationists are unable to move, as we know in the discussion here during the days on changing guidelines for the framework and work of that subject. [[The president calls.]] So it is not possible to support this issue, as it has been.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u28	Mr. President. This is where you propose a modification proposal to this system schedule bill and it reads: Despite the regulations of these laws, decision-making and further preparation should be carried out under electroniclination in Iceland's central highlands until the General Assembly has completed a discussion of -◯ I'm sorry? [[Up front.]] [[Take it up: You're reading...]] Yeah. [[To the point: Go on. It's a good reading.]] Yes, isn't it? [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] I beg your pardon. [[Up front.]] But the proposal from a smaller part of the employment committee reads: It's a... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... it's... Instead of the word ▪ electricity use, market development and electrical transport to other countries, as appropriate, at 3 mg. a-arms (9. g. a) comes: electricity consumption and market development. b. With the B-jords (9. g. b) Adds a new paragraph, as follows: The decision made by the Energy Agency on an agreed or expressed system strategy is charged with the decision-making committee of environmental and resource resources, not with the Commission of electricity. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u29	Mr. President. We're putting together a new proposal, the one that says here, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and Zaghis Svavarsdóttir: To number 5, a new paragraph will be added, as follows: In spite of the regulations of these regulations, decision-making and further preparation should be carried out under a wire line in Iceland's central highlands until the Council has concluded its discussion of a proposal for a political resolution on the development of electricity systems is to be submitted to the General Assembly for the first time prior to 15 October 2016. We feel that it is extremely important that people do not prepare for the highlands unless they first come up with a discussion at the General Assembly, and that they do not start some preparations without U.S. Congress being assured that we can discuss the matter in a democratic way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u30	A respectable president. We in the United States support this change in accordance with our new market policy that the central highlands will be described as a national park. However, I am stressing our position that in the changes achieved in cooperation with the employment committee, and more than a part of the employment committee is involved, it is a position that lineing on the central highlands will have to be carried out by the General Assembly. However, we support the complete deliberation of this change, but even if it is cut down, as it seems to be drawing up on the ballot, the Council will be treated in the middle of the mountain.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u31	Mr. President. This is an unscrupulous proposal that goes only up to 2016. The majority would have been in the palm of the hand to approve it. Then I could have agreed completely to this case. I believe, however, that the lifeline between trends and protection lies, not in the lower part of the Year, but around the edge of the central highlands. This, as mentioned in my talk on the subject, is of great importance to me, to discuss how to approach the central highlands. I'm afraid that if this proposal is made, it will be a shock to the intention of continuing preparation for an explosion line without ever having a proper discussion in the community. I don't like it. Therefore, I support this proposal and describe the explanations of the greater part and of the peace chiefs here who are directing their actions, why on earth they could not accept this matter. Then I'd be perfectly content with it. However, people may prefer the war rather than the peace if it is available. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u32	Mr. President. I would have wanted to challenge the greater part to support that suggestion, and I ask myself, " Why not? ' if they don't. Is this because people want decisions to be made and/or preparations to be in line over the middle of the country at their next loss? Is that why the greater part cannot even calm down the waves by saying that this proposal implies that no decisions will be made or preparation will be performed in any way as a volume of the future policy before the Council in the autumn of 2016, a new system plan has been implemented, etc.? It gives me a lot of anxiety, to be honest, if the other part doesn't trust to support this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u33	A respectable president. I still ask senators to think their way because it is this vote that distinguishes between those who really want to stand on the highlands and those who do not. This is a simple suggestion to ensure that Generalis's bone is the basis for a series of action in the middle of Iceland's highlands. It's a suggestion, it's so simple. So here we are taking sides to see if they really want to protect Iceland's highlands and ensure the democratic approach of the Generals to its decisions or to stand with the Landsnet in the appeal of that company against the central highlands and preparing for an explosion line. This is the vote, and members of Congress can still change their mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u34	V.E.G. President. Most of the country wants to protect Iceland's central areas. The majority of the people in this country believe that the vastness of value in themselves, that they have much cultural value for us Icelanders, and that they are part of our self - image. We would go far away from the dream of remaining uninhabited, for the government does not listen to public will, no more than in any other matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u35	A respectable president. We are on these changes with a greater part of the employment committee. I'd like to recall that they are the result of a series of conflicts we had here in the past winter, and the results given here are greatly improved in the wrongs and shows that in Congress jobs and even in lengthy conferences, we will have the benefit of creating the level of weight for the benefit of all of us. The case is much better. The policy has been established by the Generals, the procedures have been established, and the unregulated freedom of the shipping company, which has been found in the original bill, has been contained and controlled. Of course, it is not to be Landsnets to decide in what way the electricity system is built up. Rather, it is the task of the Lawgiver to the entire nation to determine that policy for the protection of the central highlands in particular. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u36	A respectable president. In the changes presented here, rural society is made much higher under the heads, as well as the environmental issues. That's extremely important. We have been participants in that work, and I thank more of the employment committee for that cooperation. It is precious to us, and it has greatly improved this matter. The coming of the council has been ensured, a decision-making is submitted to the council, and that is important things. In the largest part of the section's warrant for the future, Björt Olafsdóttt Ólafsdóttir, our opinion will be as soon as it signs the majority opinion and the proposed changes that can't be passed across the central Grand Banks of Iceland without the presence of the council. That's our total indiscriminate understanding, and I think everyone here agrees on that. Therefore, a majority of the council would have been very desirable to accept the proposed changes that were under consideration earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u37	A respectable president. These adjustments are all improving, and they came from cooperation with more parts and smaller parts after a fairly large number of initiatives on this matter at the council. This is an example of a few days of discussions in the Assembly Hall helping people to see that things were being improved, and I thank you for that, but at the same time, I think that it will happen more often than I would like to see that cases have little discussion with 1st. and they first see their problems when they reach the 2nd. It is awkwardly late when it comes to a major matter that requires a significant review. Here, the environmental protection and protection plans are reinforced and democratic terms too, but here we are not going far enough, as shown in the modifications made just earlier, so we left greens will not support the situation so modified but will support the changes in the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u38	A respectable president. This is a good case, one that will ensure the delivery of safety in the Eyjafjörður, which has been badly lacking. That's good. This case has also been a matter of public interest, of the basic infrastructure of the country. We received this report on the Environment Commission and sent out suggestions for change, and I appreciate it. Work committees for taking care of them and taking them into account. All agreed with the proposals that came from the pan-European Committee as a whole, but this also points to the private rights of rural society and its boundaries. I point out that while we're discussing other important matters, other important structures, everyone seems to agree that these infrastructures belong under the General Assembly. I ask people and legislators to take this into account when discussing other infrastructures involved in national transportation. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u39	A respectable president. When this matter entered the council, it was completely unacceptable. The changes we made to drive the council to bring about a great improvement. We will sit next to the ultimate payment of this case. So there are two points, one that I mentioned earlier about changing attitudes that have appeared in recent decisions and judgments in the past few months that have not been fully available at the level of the job committee, particularly the conclusion of the EFTA monitoring facility and the decision of the decision - making committee. Of course, the other thing we look at is the fact that we are dealing with a higher level of government that has shown a lot of unscrupulous induction against the central highlands, the mischievous and subterfugeal legislation in order to bring forth laws and rights, the proposals for activation of the rock and Hagah lakes, and what we would have wanted to see would be a vast agreement on the central highland as a protective layer in the structure of the electricity system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u40	A respectable president. I'm sorry for the tone of it. The members of the minority, some of them, after the hard work and the peace that has been achieved in this important matter, put forth effort to bring conflict to the earth in the fullest sense. Of course, all of us aim to see that as much of the electrical lines can remain in the earth in the future where it can possibly be done. But it is the interaction of many factors, and one of them is the power account of the home and of the companies in the country that play a major part in it. Balance is needed. For seven years, the Landsnet has been unable to carry out a major project on the development of the largest electrical transport system in the country, with consequences. You can't deliver electrical energy to an enterprise in the North countries to produce what you would like to use electricity to a greater extent than you can see. We're solving that case here. How we do it, then, to strengthen the main transport system between parts of the country, we must discuss at the council. We are able to move about 100 megawatts between parts of the 2500 megawatts we are producing here today. [[The president calls.]] That's billions of dollars a year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u41	Mr. President. We left greens cannot support this issue, considering that the adjustment proposed and presented were not taken into account. It is true that there are good things that have been accomplished, as in the case of democratic work, that the lesser part has an impact on matters. Although the lesser part does not necessarily agree eventually, it is normal to have an effect. We left greens still feel too close to the planning of rural society, that there is no consultation to the preparations and work in a system plan, that the shipping companies have an excessive position, and that the environmental issues, the recent Supreme Court and the EFTA views are insufficient. Unfortunately, it seems to me that the Landsnet is fully preparing lines over explosion land. Otherwise, it would have been considered to wait until the next fall to discuss these matters until this would come into the hands of the Generals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u42	V.E.G. President. The bill we vote for here and now is in the global review of the Social Security Act, No. 100/2007. The bill is aimed at providing relevant laws on accident insurance in separate laws without making changes in them to make legislation more accessible. At the same time, it is intended to facilitate the material revision of the law. As mentioned in last night's discussions, all members of the welfare committee are concerned with this opinion and all the changes in the bill. Last night's discussion also stated that the bill is closely linked to other primes, but it's not for the release here. There was a great deal of work on the committee, and there were many material reviews on the subject. It was a great harmony with the members of the Committee to refer them to a review of the law. I suggest that the bill be approved to make the law more accessible to those needing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u43	Mr. President. This bill is sure to improve, but there's still a bit more about the overall traffic system that we've always been adding, but is on the ground, as shown in the discussion of this case yesterday, because there was only a limited amount of money to play out and are still so that people have always had to wear butts, we add, make sure that the money happens where they really are most important. But I encourage senators and the people of the country to review the discussion from yesterday because this is something we are facing right now. The Peter Bömnals Committee is gathering all of these pieces to see if we have not come to the point where we can have a complete approach to this. That's what seems to be, that's a future policy on the welfare system, about the subsequent pressure, self-activating activities, growth without much work, and so natural older generations, so this is sure to improve. I myself will not vote with it, as I cannot see it in action but point back to the fact that we are moving in the right direction for an overall review of these laws. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u44	V.E.G. President. We in the United States support this case. This means only that there are laws on accident insurance from the Social Security Act to a separate law code. We support the case on the basis of a preliminary principle in the bill on the review of accident insurance within two years, and we will monitor that the Minister is going into this review, especially when it comes to definition of work accidents, benefits due to employment conditions, and general rise of the compensation, consistent with the rise of other improvements in the last two decades. With this foreword, the Conspiracy supports the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u45	V.E.G. President. As mentioned earlier, the Conspiracy supports this case. I took part in the alministation of a welfare committee, but I restitution that the criteria for such approval are that the overall review of the Social Security Act and hence these measures of accident insurance should take place quickly and be as soon as possible. Important changes need to occur that are not in here, including that students get accident insurance just as much as athletes in this law. There are rules on how payment goes up. This is changed because the bill appeared before New Year's Eve. Then it's fixed with numbers on the bill. If you look at these increases over a longer period of time, they are far below what they have to be to live up to being insurance insurance insurance insurance if you really intend to have public insurance but not to rely on private sector to deal with disease and accident insurance. So I support this as a first step, but I am confident that the review will be rapid and effective.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u46	V.E.G. President. We're left on the green side of this issue. It's only a matter of bringing the accident insurance into the specials. It is a good first step, however, and we trust that these laws will be properly reviewed, and the necessary changes, including changes, will be made. in line with the material changes that the committee received during this matter. At this point in the matter, we support this and continue on with this good news in the future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u47	A respectable president. I recommend a board of committees with a bill-change proposal to correct the changes in pharmaceutical law, No. 93/1994, with subsequent changes. The committee discussed the matter and attended a meeting of 15 guests. Reports were received from the surgeon general's office along with 12 other sources. The bill shows that medicines are commercial. The product ads are discussed in VI. section Pharmacodynamic review, No. 93/1994. According to Article 1. 13th par. The law. Exceptions are made for advertisements directed at the health groups that prescribe and distribute medicinal products, especially 1 mg. 14th par. The law, and for free-selling drugs, i.e. medicines obtained without a prescription, especially 1st paragraph 1.mg. Section 16. The law. However, TV ads of commercial products are prohibited according to Article 2. Section 16. The law. The bill suggests that the requirements for the product information should be reduced according to the 2 mg presentation. 14th par. The law of the law and the removal of commercial drugs on TV. In 1st. The bill is suggested to issue 2nd and 1st. 14th par. medicines will be modified so that the pack sizes, sizes, and key elements of the use and adverse reactions in the product literature do not need to be specified but can be referred to the package leaflet of the medicinal product on the website of the medicinal product. The report on the bill shows that this information may be extensive and difficult to make in advertising. The bill is expected to continue to mention in the published product information, the name of the medicinal product, the active substances and the main indications and contraindications for the use of the respective medicinal product. Feeding was suggested to refer to the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) more than the manufacturer (s) of the product in the first part of the container (s). the bill, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) would be responsible for the quality, safety and efficacy of the medicinal product after launch. In line with this, the Committee suggests that a reference to the Marketing Authorisation Holder is made to the product rather than to the manufacturer of the pack. It was also observed that there may be more frequent reference to the Summary of Product Characteristics than to the product leaflet in the second part of the article where the product leaflets are primarily intended for users. However, it was observed that healthcare professionals are also used for the product package leaflets. So the committee suggests that 1st par. The bill will be referred to the package leaflet of the medicinal product as well as to the Summary of Product Characteristics. Two. The bill is suggested as a ban on the use of commercial products on television at 1 mg. Section 16. a combination of drugs will be removed. Its objective is to eliminate the difference between the media when it comes to commercial marketing. They seem to have been behind a special ban on TV advertising, but not on other mediums, that television is a very influential medium. Although this evidence may have been relevant in 1995, it is now less relevant to the development of other media than TV. So the committee agrees that it is time to eliminate the distinction between the media when it is time for free drug advertising by removing the 2nd issue. Section 16. ritonavir. It was noted that the marketing authorisation, No. 328/1995, for the changes expected in the bill. The Commission suggests that the legislation will take effect on November 1, 2015, to allow time to prepare for a change in the Regulation, and the Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with this as follows: 1st We're on 1st. a. In place of the first material, instead of the word ◯ manufacturer: the Marketing Authorisation Holder. b. The following words: and/or refer to the Summary of Product Characteristics. 2. Section 3. Put it this way: This law is valid for November 1, 2015. The Árnadóttir Þóra writes on this in advance. Lára Arnardóttir, who was away from the case, writes under the opinion of this authority at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Council of the Council. Guðbjartur Hannesson was away from the hearing. Under the heading, Páll wrote to Jóhann Pálsson, Ingadóttir Igur, Bribbur the Brynjar of Níelsson, Ragnheiður the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, Ásmundur Friðriksson, and Páll Valur Björnsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u48	A respectable president. If you look at this bill further and the reviews about it seem to me - I couldn't read it properly - that when you talk about it in Article 1. information that should be published in the advertisement, is all medicines or is intended for prescription only? 14th degree. which are being changed are discussed with the prescription medicines and in the 16th paragraph. about medicines used as free-selling. I'd love to get that straight. Is this information and the pack sizes and all of this only applicable to prescription medicines or all medicines, including over products?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u49	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I think it's a free-selling drug. At least that is my understanding that we are changing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u50	A respectable president. If so, this applies to all drugs, including the freest goods, and I'm not already talking about allowing TV advertisements, it is very difficult to get this information to everyone in a TV advertisement. [[Up front.]] It is clear from both the National Institute of Marketing Authorisation and the Business Council, which are somewhat at each booth in their comments that this is unclear. I suggest that this should be checked further and it would be very clear whether or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u51	A respectable president. It follows that in television advertisements it is difficult to get much information into, so we must trust it and trust those who buy these drugs to get information. It is then pointed out in the advertisement where this information is to be contained. As technology has become the case today, TV has become almost every computer, which is basically the reason for these changes, i.e. blocking the difference between these light-monitorings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u52	V.E.G. President. As mentioned in a committee meeting, I was absent from the hearing of the committee at the time, but I would like only to have a word at the right time. A senator in general on drug advertising. We would like to inform you about the availability and availability of medicines, but I think everyone agrees that we do not want to encourage any increase in drug use, whether it is a prescription or a prescription medicine. I can see why. A senator who believes that this is merely a matter of free sale. I'd like to hear a point of view. This is exactly what the senator does and the continuation of work and general rules on how medicines are discussed, including herbal supplements and herbal supplements. If you read the magazines regularly, you will see that you have no feeling about what drugs are and what they are not, what is desirable and what is undesirable. It's a complete combination of presentations and advertisements against some medical reviews. [[The president calls.]] I think that's why we need to take the whole thing for further consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u53	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Hannesson for his question and work on the committee. It is true that drugs are now very vaguely understood, what are drugs, and what are not. There may be a clear distinction between nonprescription and prescription requirements, but when we begin to separate from nonprescriptional medicinal products and food supplements and where these limits are most difficult. Perhaps a part of this is that it is difficult to identify what is forbidden and what is not, so this may solve that problem. It is not a question of whether this is a diet or not to be advertised on TV.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u54	V.E.G. President. The reason why I am opposed is to draw attention primarily to the fact that we need to work on this issue. I think it is inevitable to go in with this source, which in itself is not a big step from what has been. We're talking about letting TV come in with advertising on painkillers and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. As we say, it adds to the Internet and other media, so television may not be illogical, but it needs to be careful that it is not a form of these drugs as part of a daily life. This is warned against the daily use of many of these commodities for long periods of time. It is important that this message also does not necessarily require use of painkillers or anti-inflammatory drugs, some of which are specifically criticized, that it may be dangerous if used in certain amounts, etc. The problem's still there, so I'm going to direct to the Committee that we'll keep checking on this, even if this bill goes through.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u55	A respectable president. Yeah, I'll agree with that with what's happened. A senator, it is a worthy assignment to continue with this matter and try to distinguish it. So, as I said, it may be that we need to reexamine these matters so that we can't say anything in advertising. There is no doubt about it; perhaps there is a problem that needs to be handled lightly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u56	A respectable president. I'll answer a question from what? paritaprevir It's Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir. I had the same problem when I was studying this case last night, not sitting on the committee, and maybe coming to it rather late, but I find this interesting. I didn't quite understand what was being done with a law on the prescription for these matters. They are talking about allowing commercial advertising on TV, as has been permitted in other media. I may be quite saying that it may be silly to leave TV behind, but we need to know if you're talking about all the information that should be published in TV advertisements. I can't understand it should be like that. I find it very controversial whether to allow advertisements on the loose, so I want to ask: Is it in any way certain that at least three of the most common adverse reactions on drugs are described concomitantly? It would be right for me to decide on the consumer's point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u57	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. The commission states: The bill suggests that there will be a lower demand for the information to be presented in -- no, I'm sorry, that's lower: The bill considers that the product must continue to be mentioned in the published name of the manufacturer, the name of the medicinal product, the active substances and the main indications and contraindications for the use of the concerned medicinal product. I think that a key contraption needs to be made in the advertisements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u58	A respectable president. Also, I would like to be curious about whether or not there will be some way that the public will be able to learn more about the use of drugs. It can be expected that there will be an increase in drug use. As a result of its influence and increase in sales, people are likely to want to advertise on television. A number of drug-drugs, such as anti-inflammatory and anti-rheumatic products, can have a bad effect on your digestive system, for example. There are always side effects of all medicines, we know that. Has it been discussed, then, that the surgeon general is under attack to inform people that medications should always be used with utmost caution? I found it interesting to read an interview with a surgeon who said that he would not take medication unless he needed it. That's how most people speak in this sector that knows something. I think it is of great importance that and what I was talking about earlier, that the side effects of medication should, of course, appear in the advertisement. Just as we put caution marks on cigarettes, we should put them on the medication. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear what I'm thinking. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u59	A respectable president. I'll take my whole mind off with what's wrong. Senator. There would be no need for more information. There is a bill in the conduct of the Committee called Pharmacovigilance, so these are being handled and contributing to more information to the public. I feel the same way as a surgeon and expect most people to be so that unless they need medication, they don't take it. I don't expect people to take medication in time and hours without really needing it. I don't know anyone who just takes drugs for fun or because he likes it. I agree with what. Senator, we need to expand information to the public and educate the public about medicine in general. [[The president calls.]] In fact, we use all too much drugs in Iceland, and we need to work progressively to reduce that use.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u60	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by thanking the head of the case for the opinion of the committee. I'd like to say at first that I have a little bit of a doubt that we're taking a good step with this bill. First, I would like to mention that advertisements are the means by which they encourage the use. That's the nature of advertising, so I'd like to ask the head of the committee if they've considered reaching the objective of the bill, which is to eliminate this distinction between the media, the other way, i.e. to continue the ban on television, but to be free from advertising on the radio, on the Internet, etc.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u61	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. I'll admit that I was skeptical and often asked the committee if there was any need for this and what a great need it was. As I said before, drug abuse in Iceland was too much and I would have rather thought there was a greater need to reduce that use. The reality today, however, is that I'm just not asking that we can start drug advertising in this technology age on the Internet and all the media. Besides, the difference between food supplements and drugs is so unclear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u62	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I agree that this whole thing needs to be examined. Like what? A senator says that the use of drugs is high and needs to be reduced. I don't see that by increasing advertising and adding to that, we will achieve that goal. I'm gonna allow myself to state that at least it's possible to subtract and make it possible for an Icelandic pharmaceutical company to be advertised online. We're looking at Facebook and Google Ads, etc. I don't know all this, but I think we could limit it to our company taking this information to people who need or don't need medication. However, in the second answer, I would like to ask why. That's not what I'm talking about. In 1st. it tells you that there should be certain information in the advertisement or the reference to the package leaflet of the medicinal product on the website of the EMA. It should either be mentioned in the advertisement of these adverse reactions, which I find to be one of the most serious cases, or refer to the website of the EMA. This is not to tell people what is good or bad about the drug, and it is, in my opinion, moral wrong. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u63	A respectable president. I can honestly say that it would be most desirable to have as much information as possible published in these advertisements and side effects published. The question may be, Where is the limit? Are these side effects clear? Is it clear where the major side effects are? This case points to the website that when the medicines are bought, the package leaflets are provided so that they become aware when they buy the medicines. All of us must want to help reduce the use of drugs, and perhaps we need to work diligently to increase the amount of drug propaganda in general and in return to eating just as well. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u64	President. The bill we now have on this subject does not give up much, and it seems to be relatively simple. It is often that simple things are a little more complicated than they may seem. It was stated this morning that members of the council may have differing opinions on this bill and, even a respected president, felt that I was the head of the committee's opinion, sharp. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson, in effect, answers my question. As far as I understood his answer, it would be a conflict of committee opinion with a change in proposal that I must admit, a respectable president, that I had not read thoroughly, but now I have. It has to do with 1st. The bill that's about 14th floor. The law that says: The name of the manufacturer, the name of the medicinal product, the active substance and the main indications and the contraindications for the use of the respective medicinal product should be mentioned. Information on the pack sizes, prices, dosages and key elements of use and any side effects should be provided in the Marketing Authorisation or the package leaflet of the medicinal product on the website. Those giving the review of this article have said that it is not completely clear to them whether this applies only to prescription medicines mentioned in paragraph 16. or whether this also applies to the products discussed in Article 2. The bill, for television ads are now being passed on to commercials. It may not be unusual for this confusion to occur, and this morning I understood the answer of the manager that all of these pack sizes should be specified and all of this information referred to or referred to in the package leaflet should apply to all medicines. However, it is clearly stated in a committee study of the Advisory Committee on Advisory Advisory, which states that after legal proceedings have been passed by the President's permission and so on the streets: In view of the fact that 2 mg is to be interpreted, the NGO counts. 14th par. the pharmaceutical technique applies only to prescribing and distributing medicinal products and to 1.g. Therefore, the bill does not take into account advertisements of free-selling drugs for the public. Then it is clear that this article, 1st par. which state what should be stated in the advertisement only if prescribed for you. It's important that this is clearly clear. However, the requirements, as can be said, must be met for commercial advertising, and because they are to be published in a Regulation, this will be the reason why the committee also suggests that the element of values is not immediately agreed on by the law but in the fall. This is to give a health minister the opportunity to set up a regulation to authorize this on television right now. It mattered to me that it was perfectly clear, and it seems to be. However, this article on prescription medicines makes it easier to advertise, as it were. They may either pack the pack sizes and all the necessary food in it or refer to the package leaflet listed on the website of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. Then people may say, " This is not good enough,'because people may not know how to use the Agency's web, but we also need to think that it is only about advertising in magazines that are specifically published for health groups. This is directed solely to the health professionals and health-care professionals, and should know what the package leaflets are and how they are available. I'm just saying, as it is, I have nothing to do with this checking as long as it's quite clear. I don't know whether to call it the key ingredient of the bill to allow TV ads on free sales drugs that are to be kept out of the way of the various media. I understand that products are advertised on the Internet, even as they can be advertised in magazines. In other words, it is authorized on television. Here is a word from the local health minister when he recommended the medical bill that became the pharmaceutical: I'm told that it was on the World Health and Security Committee of the World Generals when she had the case for her last year that if there was any doubt that TV commercial products were not allowed, it would not be necessary to dissuade the possibility of legalizing them. Since this is so, there is no doubt that the Ministry of Health is the only one to suggest that it be completely undecided, and this is done in 1st st............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................ There is no question about it: Unbiased drugs can be advertised on television. A respectable president. Of course, people should not take too much medicine. Of course, that is to be warned. For example, I see that in the opinion of a surgeon's office, advertising drugs may lead to increased use of drugs because of advertisements and the provincial concern about allowing these advertisements. I couldn't understand it any other way. It may be said that there is a point, but advertisements also compete, and I think that our major problem with drugs is a lack of competition. Why do I say lack of competition? Because of the fact that a small number of medicines are released in the market, it has been read from the administration system that it requires a marketing authorisation for each product that is being introduced here. As far as I'm concerned, we're there on a common market, just as we're talking about other products. Of course, safety concerns must always be taken with medication, but one reason is so high in this country is that there is very little competition. This requires that we take a serious view of ourselves. That's why I'm saying, with the freest drugs, they're adding to the competition. So they may have remembered that because competition leads to a lower price. There are a number of comments that the whole law on drugs needs to be revised. I can wholeheartedly agree, but I would also like to say that all the pharmaceutical laws need to be revised. They are in 1994, I think, changed in 2000, and all of them need to be revised. I worked in this business for a few years, and I have to say that what surprised me most in those jobs was how important those who shop with drugs and take them into the country, whether they're producers or Marketing Authorisation Holder, put forth the effort to keep these little markets distinct. I think it's because they can maintain the high price of drugs here, because we know that the success that has been achieved by hand has been achieved. Now, I'm not talking about a compound being generally less expensive than prodrugs and so forth the streets. Rather, I'm talking about the results that have been achieved here in reducing the price of drugs, especially those of primary drugs. All of this has been suggested that drugs should not exceed average prices in the North countries or anything like that. This has never been done so that those selling the drugs might think of having them less expensive. It's simply because there's less medicine selection here than in the countries around us in many cases and because it's convenient for those on the market to keep the small and high markets. They've gotten away with this. That's why I don't think it's just urgent. as shown in various reviews, reviewing the product information. It's necessary to revise all the laws. That's what I think. It's not a big or big bill, and I don't give much credit, but I also think it's time to point out that there are a few comments, and although there are just two of the articles we're discussing, there are two reviews, each on one five pages, to present a cause for something. The reviews, however, are in total of 12. But who has these two detailed reviews? On the one hand, the Marketing Authorisation Holder offering the reason on four and a half pages shows that they have to be careful about all of this and the rules, they must not change much and so on. It explains all of this in great detail. But from whom is the second review, a respectable president, almost five pages? It's from Iceland's Business Office. They want to give everything away free. These are the two worlds, and these are the two worlds that understand the importance of moving with the pharmaceuticals. They need to be touched. Of course, we must always be careful and safe. Of course, we do not want the day and the day for medication to go in and out, but drugs are not much different from any other product. They're not much different. Some drugs can't be sold except for prescriptions, and it's very safe not to go to the store and buy something unless you have a doctor's prescription. There should be safety there. Then there are other medications, and, of course, people aren't supposed to eat them day in and day out, but we also have to trust people with a little sense of themselves. We should not always have rules about who can do what time is required. So now these commodities are being permitted. What kind of medication is that? For example, there are aspirin and ibuprofen. Of course, it's not healthy to eat ibuprofen and have a glass of red wine. I'm not talking about eating much ibuprofen and drinking plenty of red wine, but this is something we do at the World Council don't allow or forbid. [[Up front.]] For example, I also refer to where to sell freest goods. You can only sell free drugs in pharmacys except nicotine, weaker forms, 2 milligrams, they can be sold in stores as well. It was allowed, likely on the grounds that it would be easier for people to get to the drug and that they would rather stop smoking. One reference work, from the Business Council, has a plot showing nicotine - based increases in sales and the reduction in smoking. It's just the best part. Some may find it easy to do so, but I don't think so. I say, why can't we sell headaches in camp? It can be done in Denmark. Why not? Everyone can see what they're giving into the medicine camp. If people have headaches and are going to buy a battery, they go into the pharmacy. Why can't the simplest commodities at regular grocery stores or stores be sold? I ask because on weekends and evenings it sometimes takes a little long to get rid of this product. I support this bill as it is, but stress it, a respectable president, that it is essential that all the pharmaceutical laws be revised. I challenge the health minister to do that work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u65	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for the speech and her review of the bill. First, I want to say that we have the same understanding of how to understand what is suggested here. There's been a bit of confusion in the discussion here, I've thought, about what's being suggested. So I have exactly the same understanding as why. A senator, i.e. to 1st par. The bill does not focus on the general goods but on the advertisements intended for professionals. At first, I'd like to ask you why. In fact, a senator's comments in her speech about competition leading to a lower price and the fact that drugs were not much different from any other product. Since the senator disagrees with the fact that drugs are a little different than many products, there are a number of cautions to be taken when advertising them, so there is a greater need for rules on what to be presented in such products on warnings or when thinking. A senator that we could open up here a lot more and fell off drug information demand?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u66	A respectable president. Of course, drugs aren't like any other product - I tried to say it -- and it has to be kept in safety. However, my evaluation is that in the regulations and laws set out here on the country for import and sale and the treatment of medicines, the safety profile has completely overreached the fact that medication is also a product. We're in the European Economic Area, and there's supposed to be free shipment of goods between countries, but it doesn't have medicine. This is because the local authorities have interpreted the laws and safety terms so that medication needs to be recorded and done depending on some extreme rigid and difficult rules. It overpowers the free flow of the goods. I don't agree with that. I believe that there are safety requirements for medication, such as selling it in a pharmacy - I mean, prescription materials will not be sold elsewhere. However, I wondered, " Can I not take drugs freely? ' We must not allow the security factors to overpower the free flow product to remain in the European Economic Area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u67	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. Hv. The speaker also mentioned in his talk that it was necessary for her to make a complete review of the medications. I think I agree with that. The committee spoke a little bit about whether there would be no need to set clear rules about what is called herbal products or herbal products, and various foods. We can see in many newspapers newspapers that contain newspapers of lifestyle articles or advertisements; it is often difficult to understand exactly what is going on there. Counts 'em out. A member of the Parliament that a review of medicines should also include what is called alternative medicines, herbal medicines, or herbal products? Does the senator think that this should be done in a general review so that we can get a clear picture of what in some way can be considered a drug or even something that isn't just defined by the Institute of Medicine now as a drug? Is that supposed to be part of it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u68	A respectable president. I think we've got to be a little bit careful with expanding the pharmaceutical concept and taking it all under law and order. Cranberry juice? Is that what we're gonna say? A respectable president. It is clear that to be called a drug, someone needs to be warned to go through very, very strict and a lot of careers, all kinds of tests and what it all is called. So I don't know. Is there some kind of contraband medicine? Will we make rules about that? Everyone knows that it's not healthy to keep gulping in the shades forever. I'm more on the line to be careful about stretching the drug concept or stretching out the rules about what you can do and what you can't do beyond what you need --Well, I don't know if this is necessary, I judge my natural need. People have to go through this research, and we need to see what's under that umbrella. My umbrella is probably smaller than many people in what is not to be expected by law and order, security and authority, and what can be done and what time and when to advertise and when not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u69	Mr. President. We're here on bill for changes in pharmaceutical law. It's a little bill and simple, but it's about medicines, which are complex. Many people have opinions about these matters, and they have an enormous system around them. There is both a marketing authorisation for medicinal products considered to be authorised for marketing with people, followed by a wide range of surveillance and regulations. More important, new products are being introduced into the market, with significant progress, in order to increase the likelihood of being able to lead the best way of life in spite of disease and in some cases healing disease. This is where we're talking about drug advertising. These are drugs, such as alcohol and tobacco, which are conservative when it comes to allowing advertisements. We have banned them from alcohol and tobacco, but it was authorized in 1994 to advertise drugs, and this was because of the European Commission's implementation. By means of the bill, the requirement for this information is to be changed when advertised medicinal products that are not free-selling medicinal products but that are to be prescribed only by the physician. They can be advertised in special professional magazines, e.g. In the medical paper. It was a requirement for a wide range of information to be provided in such advertisements that many pages of the medical journal depend on this information, and all agreed that the amount of information needed could be totally reduced. Just so they're in the middle of a 14th story. track No. 93/199: Medicinal products authorised in this country can be reported in the literature or in the literature of the prescribing and dispensing classes of medicinal products. And then there's: The name of the manufacturer, the name of the medicinal product, the active substances, the main indications and the contraindications for the use of the respective medicinal product, the pack size and the price should be provided. In addition, dosing volumes and key safety concerns. The above information should always be clear and easy to read and in accordance with the prescribing information. Thus, it is evident that this law means that there should be very extensive information on this. Now this is being subtracted and the paragraph will be as follows: The name of the manufacturer, the name of the medicinal product, the active substance and the main indications and the contraindications for the use of the respective medicinal product should be mentioned. Information on the pack sizes, prices, dosages and key elements of use and any side effects should be provided in the Marketing Authorisation or the package leaflet of the medicinal product on the website. Therefore, as normal, further information may be published but there is also a possibility that the Agency can be referred to. And it should be noted that these advertisements are not public mediums. This is in the literature for the trade and prescription-related medicinal products. When it comes to free-selling advertisements, they are authorized. But there has been one exception, and it is that television has not been promoted. Then these laws must be looked to at at at 20 years of age. At that time the Internet was not in their homes, although it was certainly there; in fact, it was three media, newspapers, and magazines, radio, and television. TV was much more effective today when half the people watched the television program, a linear television program, every night. Since then, many things have changed, but it has been regarded as Norway and Denmark, as my memory, as it has now been taken away in the Danish law, and now is the will to eliminate it here in Icelandic law. It's no secret that I have certain doubts about drug advertising, but I don't think there's any perplexing reason why there's a difference between mediums in this relationship. And it's all over how it's supposed to be. At 16. ...... mg, says that commercial advertisements should be in accordance with EU regulations as further stated in the Regulation. The information that should be presented is stated in the Minister's Regulation and should not be mixed with 14. .. which I read from earlier, which concerns drug advertisements in professional journals. I think that most of us sometimes use free-selling drugs without any problem, and they're very lucky, because you're alive at the time when you can do a lot of work by taking pills, that's a good thing. However, it has also been shown that taking some medicines, in combination with alcohol or in excess of the recommended daily doses, can be associated with severe kidney failure. Similarly, there was a market drug that was advertised cruelly, but it became evident that the heart had become a relatively common side effect. It should be noted, therefore, that drugs are not normal products. I want to find out that although I'm very conservative, when it comes to the idea of drug advertising, I'm not really ready to ban it or anything like that. However, it has also been applied, and doctors have pointed out, not in reviews, that companies make doses of drugs, often to adults who take a lot of drugs, are published. They have noted that if such medicinal products are taken concomitantly with medicinal products that are being taken by people, when combined with other medicinal products, there may be very serious consequences for healthy people at low doses. Clearly, then, there is reason to be careful, and perhaps mainly to ensure that monitoring is on the verge that those who advertise are responsible. Comments show that the surgeon general does not approve of drug advertising, and it shows that since TV advertising has been authorized, it has increased the use of analgesics. In this country there was no particular good analysis of this and a question as to whether TV's power is still so great. However, the chances are that people who are chronically ill and may be the most sensitive to drugs are also likely to have more time to watch television, so that there may be a measure of danger. There was a significant debate in the Committee about all the foods and items that are on the market and that are advertised cruelly. It is often stated that you are not quite sure if there is an advertisement or a news story or a general review of these medicines. When this is advertised so equally - allowing general advertising on free goods also increases the credibility of such expensive food supplements, for many people do not make a distinction between the scientific drug or traditional production products that have no or even harmful effects, so there are some things to consider. So they were lively and intense discussions, and it was a bit amusing to think that 50 years ago, when drugs were being passed, the exact same discussion was held at the General Assembly on so - called magic drugs. Thus, for 50 years we may not have changed much, but we cannot expect. We're a rather conservative species. If we also look at when the sales law was passed in 1963, the head of health and social committees said: But on one of the nonnew sales songs, I believe it is right to draw attention, since it may be proud of Icelanders. It is the prohibition against advertising drugs for the general public. In some lands advertising has caused excessive and more damaging - and devastating abuse of drugs, but these regulations are a powerful defense of the public against harmful propaganda in a language that is difficult for the common people to judge and therefore vulnerable to. Now I have to say, when I read this, I blushed a little, and I realized that this attitude is not new and that history repeats itself. It appears that when it comes to advertising, many members of the Parliament were cautious. And as for the discussion of the supplements, I'm also going to quote a Senate document, since 1932, I was wrong earlier, so it's been 85 years. It says: To this end, we have been largely free of the magic ads, which are highly discarded in countries and very misleading to the public. In the last few hours, however, they have shot up their heads and would be fine if it could be stopped. It is funny sometimes to reflect in the past. The topic discussion is similar at the General Assembly in 1932, 1963, and 2015. But this is because drugs are no ordinary product. We should take it seriously when setting rules around them and also keep in mind that the interests involved are not always the health and well - being of the citizens of the country but the economics of the enterprises which produce or have a marketing permit on the product. And then we need to weigh what's good for the public, when we're working in public service, and when we're working for those who have financial interests by selling more drugs. As I said, all the committees are involved in this, and we don't think it's legal to discriminate media when it comes to advertising. Then we've made some adjustments to the bill, which is still small. There seems to have been some misunderstandings in the reviews of the subject, of the 14th century. .. which includes drugs in the journals of professional people, includes 16. ...................... about free-selling drugs. It is not, for it goes on advertisements, as I said, according to the order of the Minister of Regulation. We take note of the bill's recording, but it's been stated and there's reason to start preparation for these changes, a request was made for a reasonable amount of time. You wonder how clearly the law is when the Institute of Medicine makes comments. It seems that there is an increase in the clarity of these laws, so there is no doubt as to the identity of advertisements. There is a difference between whether there is a reference/prescription or a prescription product. It might be asked, " Is there any reason to take the matter into my committee, and I'm more inclined to think about it, since it seems that the discussion is not fully clear to all of us? ' I think that would be a good idea. Then, in the coming decades, we will continue the same discussions about drugs here at the General Assembly and review ourselves for entertainment as well as reminders that few decades apart.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u70	V.E.G. President. I'm going to start by thanking the senator for the talk and saying that it's about a lot of complicated issues, though the bill might be taken lightly. I'd like to ask her about the 1994 legislation and the laws we're now building. She reasoned in her speech that three media, newspapers, radio, and television had been advertised, and the Internet had not yet been advertised. I'd like to ask if we've forgotten ourselves here, I've run over both the regulations and the laws, whether the legislature or the executive authority has forgotten about the technology and that the Internet has really forgotten about this. Has a what? A senator or some other authority?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u71	V.E.G. President. No, I don't think it really is. The Internet is the natural mirror of its community, and we want to have opinions about what is in it and often wishes to control certain images online. In this regard, the 16th paragraph says. about advertisements: It is up to you to announce and advertise free-selling products, i.e. medicines obtained without a prescription for the general population And then there's: However, on TV millions of free - selling drugs are being advertised. That's what we're saying. The wording of the law is so that it is not to be defined specifically unless it is not to be on television. [[The president calls.]] So I think advertising on the Internet is quite the spirit of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u72	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I'm gonna allow me to disagree with her and tell her that if the Internet had been formed at the time the law was written, we would likely have tried not to advertise it on the Internet, trying to prevent drug advertising there. I'd like to translate 16. so that in general it should not be allowed in the legal sense to advertise a drug, and therefore it should be given specific permission to advertise it outside the Internet prior to the Internet. So I think we're moving this in the wrong direction. Rather, we should move it back and try to reduce the introduction of medication.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u73	V.E.G. President. I don't completely agree with this. I think if the Internet had been available for public use when the law was passed, advertising would simply have been authorized, and television would not have taken out specifically. I agree with the senator that it is worthy to take the debate on whether to allow advertising or not, but I think that if we are going to allow advertising in newspapers and not on the Internet in our modern society, we will be very upset. So I think that if there is a wish to change legislation on drug advertising, it is either or, rather, not limited to certain media, and most of all to the Internet, which is often the most independent and best media for the public soon to consult.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u74	Mr. President. First, I'd like to thank a speaker. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, for the speech. Me and what. A candidate in common is to have some conservative reason for caution when it comes to this matter and yet remain a follower of the matter. I'd like to ask you what. A candidate on the herbal products and supplements and herbal supplements only. This is reflected in the regulations on what to sell, and what should not be done while in a much gray area regarding various dietary supplements. Counts 'em out. A senator that we need to sharpen the frame when it comes to things that are not classified as standard drugs?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u75	V.E.G. President. Like what? A senator had a very refreshing discussion on the welfare committee. We talked a lot about it, and it's obviously been discussed earlier at the Council, 50 years ago. I think it's very difficult to limit advertisements on food supplements and various life elixirs. The advertisement's surveillance is such that there are certain factors, so that you cannot make a statement about qualities that cannot be proved and such, and I think that, really, it was too close to baby-sitting. Another thing is that we live in a community where we want people to be free to use from 4 yous. K. and up to ten up. K. In something they believe in, each person may be able to decide how willing he is to be nagged. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u76	Mr. President. This is a good question with the individual's freedom and the freedom to get over it. However, it is stated in this medical directive that such ads should not include any reference to scientific or health professionals or to persons who are neither scientists nor professionals. Based on what I have considered from a variety of dietary supplements and natural drugs, I can only see that advertisements or mountain events do not match that definition or directive of the medicinal products at all. I have to say, it worries me that here, it's way too open what's allowed to do in that regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u77	It is this with freedom, for it is not only the freedom of each person but also the freedom of the community to act on their own heads but also the responsibility of society to free us from every sort of foolishness. It's always a tough walk. I think the senator's correct point might be that there might be a reason to have similar dietary restrictions. Yet, there are, for example, many medical devices and equipment that people use, for all, and they can be classy that recommend them. The objective must be to prevent a person from advertising a product with false qualities, but just as it would prevent a product from being sold and advertised, which may be harmful. [[The president calls.]] That may be what we need to focus on, to protect that factor.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u78	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir for a good speech. I feel the same way she feels. I pay attention to this bill. Still, from the same point of view as she points out in her talk, I decided to continue to stand out as different from the media in the country. It was a lively discussion on the committee when we were discussing this matter. At the same time, there was a lot of debate over the fact that people who were severely ill were being sold some medicines that were supposed to be effective. I wanted to ask, because we've been talking about people who don't know and don't know the side effects of drugs, anyway. A member of the body believes that drug use could be improved if it was used in a way similar to tobacco products, meaning that it was not entirely safe and that misuse would not be good.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u79	V.E.G. President. Yes, it was not easy to discuss what information would be needed. It was also noted that TV advertisements, for example, would be limited. It may be said that the consciousness of the public woke up. Today's society differs from society 20 years ago in that it is much easier for people to get information and to take health into their own hands. All I think is that advertising of drugs should be done in the same principles as advertising on other products, although it is cited that people need to read about side effects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u80	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. We agree on many aspects of this matter. Another thing I wanted to wonder about is a bill on the Council's Health Committee called Pharmacovigilance. I'm wondering how these bills can play together or their effects. The objective of the Pharmacovigilance Guide is that the Marketing Authorisation Holder has additional permission to monitor and record adverse reactions and to provide careful monitoring of the Marketing Authorisation Holder. Counts 'em out. A senator that if it became legal, would there be a better awareness of the adverse effects of drugs in the public if there were more extra extras? You are also thinking in this context of public health. Of course, as the senator noted earlier, people are keenly aware, or most, of their health. It is not difficult, considering the technology we have today, to look for medicine. But does she think that a pharmacovigilance bill might be an improvement?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u81	V.E.G. President. I have to admit that I can't quite answer this question because the matter is on a committee and has been sent to report. We haven't discussed the pharmacovigilance, and I just haven't studied it in the skin of my flesh. I think I'm right when I say that these changes aren't making so much difference, because they're only legalizing an arrangement that's already in the past. This is a European Commission information system to increase the monitoring of medicinal products, product information and protection of consumers. This is actually an arrangement that is already a people, but it lacks the legal authority for certain aspects of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u82	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. Sigríður Sigrride Ingibjörg Ingadóttir, chairman of the welfare committee, for a good speech and a lot of information, but we here discuss a bill to correct the changes in medication laws, and there are mainly two issues to consider, i.e. to eliminate free-selling advertising and information requirements. I'd like to ask you whether or not, but last year, I'm going to answer to the ban. In general, I believe that individuals are responsible for their decisions and health in this case, and that is consistent with us in this case. And I agree with what. A senator says that it is not a matter of segregation, but of course. A senator prefers to go the other way and forbids advertisements of drugs, including drugs?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u83	V.E.G. President. No, I have to say no. I don't feel the urge to go on the road to ban advertising on free sales. However, it is important to remember that medicines are not ordinary products, and we should not discuss them as normal products. We're also supposed to keep in mind the will for further advertisements, if we law-give more advertising, we don't do it out of public interest. I don't know, but I'm almost convinced that these changes have been prompted by the person who makes any further sales. Let's keep our eyes open to that. We have this in most other mediums, and I don't think it's normal to differ, but if there was a question to discuss today as to whether there could be a drug advertised, that would be forbidden, I'm not sure I would support advertising. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u84	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Hv. A senator explains with fine the difficulty in calling for the individual's responsibility for his or her own health and so on, of course, what is underneath in this bill, the key information is that the individual can obtain relevant information on the efficacy and side effects of drugs in this case. It seems to me that there's some sort of reduced information demand here. Hv. A senator was very good at limitations, such as. Short - term TV monitors, of course, test the information on the medication itself and the general information available to the individual. It is also well established in the EMA commentes, to increase clearly and clearly. A senator came in. [[The president calls.]] The question, then, is the second question: Would it not have been necessary to increase the demand for information, and how would that have been? A senator envisioned this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u85	V.E.G. President. We're underlining the requirements for information about medicines that need to be prescribed, but it's natural only in the very specific professional journals of the classes that may prescribe drugs, which are almost only doctors, so it's different. For commercial advertisements it is stated in a European Regulation. But it's a very complicated environment. There's a lot of people involved. I think what is most likely to do the system that most efficiently is law-enforcement clearly and functional surveillance agencies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u86	Madam President. We'll discuss this bill to correct the change in pharmaceutical law. By means of the bill, you will be suggested to reduce the requirements for the information that needs to be published according to 2 mg. 14th par. The law says, and the removal will be the rule of advertising on TV free sales. I'm like other members of the committee why. The welfare committee at this committee party, but on a short notice, I intend to make an announcement to them as soon as I discuss the matter. The committee noted that it was unclear whether 1. The bill would be designed to implement advertisements of free-selling drugs for the general public or for ads for health groups only. I think it can be determined by the discussions that we've been discussing today that there's a bit of valid evidence that it's unclear, because this has been a problem. People here who have been trying to find out, of course, have not had the same time as we do when we are in trouble. The welfare committee. This may be viewed as a measure of concern, i.e. how the laws will be left out in society Nevertheless, on page 15 it is clear that an article entitled Animates the Making of a Changement. 2 that the committee believes that 2 mg should be interpreted. 14 grams. the prescription and dispensing of medicinal products apply only to health-class advertisements and to 1st. Therefore, the bill under this discussion does not apply to advertisements of free-selling drugs for the public. The other thing, i.e. 2.g. The bill, it reads, by permission of the President: ▪2. A sentence. 1.mg. Section 16. The law will pass away. This means that if the bill is approved, it is no longer forbidden to advertise drugs on television. I have to admit, I had 1st. this case is extremely doubts and warnings as to whether it would be wise to increase the number of mediums in which commercial products could be advertised. But after a discussion in the Committee, I concluded that advertising of free drug products would not be appropriate for all other media to rule out advertising on television, it would be consistent with just so that there is one value for all media. It's really what my husband had in mind about the matter, my doubts about whether it's over and over to advertise a drug. I have doubts about whether it's desirable. As one report from the surgeon general's office shows, millions of medicines can have unpleasant, even dangerous side effects, and their use does not improve the health of the common people. So it's from public health reasons I put a question mark on this. But there is, in effect, a special talk that we must take, whether we want to use the law simply in another direction. But while advertisements are allowed in some media, I don't think there's any reason to ban them in certain media such as TV. When it comes to advertisements of free goods, there are very clear rules about what can be read in the regulations provided by the law. There are important points, such as that a drug advertisement directed to the general public should be presented to all to recognize that advertisements are involved and that products are being advertised. It also says that a drug advert directed to the general population should not include any indication that there is no need to consult a physician or to undergo surgery or treatment, or to suggest that the person's health may be improved by taking the medicinal product, as well as those not to be referred to by scientists, healthcare professionals from a healthcare professional, or persons who are not scientific or professional. This is very important to me, because it sets a frame of what drug advertisements should be like. There was also a significant debate on herbal products, herbal supplements, and supplements, and there are whole pages in newspapers that are hard to find out whether advertising is a life - style. Either way, it works as advertising on these specific materials. I find it important the next step, and I wonder if this discussion should be taken up in conjunction with a review of the pharmaceutical law, to set clearer rules on these substances, which are at least not properly classified as drugs, but some still use them as such. When it comes to medication, there are very strict rules, such as I did, and it is very clear to what and what must not be stated in the product literature. For example, a product should not be advertised or sold with dissociative properties. Now I'm not going to tell you about all the herbal products or herbal products that they're being lying about. However, we likely know most of our coverage in the media, although the effectiveness of these substances has not been demonstrated. I find it very serious if you can use advertising or publicity to appeal to people and even reason that some material will benefit them, even better than conventional drugs. Then I think we're on a very dangerous path. It may be dangerous to allow advertising of conventional drugs on the basis of public health and general health standards, but this course is equally dangerous, and then we are completely out of the way in the wrong direction of dietary supplements and herbal products. That's why I think it's important that we be very aware of this, and when we discuss the changes in the medications, this medication, if we can call it, also will be examined. As I said at the outset, I support the changes presented here, but with them I am aware that drug advertisements have a right to their heads, although I agree that within the framework of the law it is not normal to rule out one medium from publication if it is permitted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u87	Madam President. The discussion I've been having today makes me creep. I'm not only the opinion but also laws, both domestic and foreign, and various directives from the European Union that we've had to record, that drug trade is nothing more than a general product store. Medicinal products have strict regulations that should all contribute to the sale and treatment of them based on general public health and general health concerns and should ensure good adherence and management of medications and minimise their use of medicinal products. Hv. A senator has at times conducted many of the most brilliant talks in which she has referred to the report of the World Council of Research, which in its time caused agitation and surprise, as well as joy. It stressed that politicians should obey the advice of experts. Who are the experts on this matter? I guess it's a surgeon. So here's the very clear indication from the surgeon that the office is against drug advertising. The Commission reports that there are foreign data that suggest that advertisements promote the use of drugs. Why, then, should we start extending permission and authority to these advertisements? I'm just asking. What is the sense of it? Should TV advertising be allowed on free-selling drugs because the Contestance Commission has said something and because those selling the drugs have done nothing and gone wrong? If you want to be in harmony with this mess and follow the advice of the specialists and surgeons, you don't have to do it in newspapers, it's that simple. What does it say? A senator of this simple, perhaps stupid argument? [[The president calls.]] She's not based on reading this bill because I haven't read a can of it, I've just listened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u88	V.E.G. President. No, there's nothing stupid about this question why. Senator. I may not have been able to be clear enough in my speech that my boss goes out to the very point where I believe that this is where we're going in the wrong direction and that it should rather go in the direction of reducing or even forbidding advertisements of drugs. On the other hand, I feel that the argument of a surgeon's review may not exactly apply, i.e. That television is the powerful and effective medium it was some years ago or decades ago. There are simply so many other strong media, such as the Internet, where drug advertising is authorized. I feel that while we're not going to take the discussion on whether or not we should ban the use of drugs, it's not right to rule out this one medium. On the other hand, I would very much like to take up a discussion that I think may need to be decent and collective about whether or not we're on the wrong track with this, e.g. for public health reasons, but then every kind of advertising in every media should be underneath. Perhaps it is a problem to say: Let's start with TV advertising and then go back. [[The president calls.]] In view of the discussion and the discussion on the committee, and since we are today, I think we still have to go that no-way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u89	Madam President. It was a very modern rational support, and it was only a possibility of intelligent existence. I have a very simple view of this. If a surgeon considers advertising undesirable because it promotes drug use and abuse, I listen to that office. Not that I'm going to have a show of humor or a showy temper, as I sometimes tend to if I have that thing on me, but if I get it right by my head. I think a senator would find it very difficult for her to support the bill with this notice and then plan to vote for it when, in effect, her case shows that she has strong doubts if she is simply not opposed to the main elements of the bill, which are allowing advertising on this TV product. However, further information on adverse reactions should be provided. I never read these notes, or very rarely, which are usually less often with some medications that you sometimes have to take temporarily, but I did, and I was terrified because it says that drugs that you thought were just okay with and that people might have side effects of all kinds, if so, in fact, they might be taking some other medicine. So it's all very dangerous. Then, in the discussion, it was earlier that information should be allowed by referring to some less surgeon. Yes, sir, who is in it, and who is doing it today? After you buy any medicine, you will not be able to see this until first, when the medicine has been removed from the package and has been bought. Should they go to some web? I don't think it's like that. In terms of the supplements, because I love reading them, but I never buy anything from them, it's now that they don't hurt anyone. There are studies that show that there is nothing in the world of these supplements that makes anything better than blueberries that I take every day and lighting that I also take every day. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u90	Madam President. 1st par. This bill refers only to drug advertisements published in literature designed for professionals. The information under discussion is that the patient should be aware of the side effects or published in the package leaflet of the medicinal product on the website of the EMA only applicable to professional advertisements and should never be seen by the public except those who are paying particular attention to reading such professional journals. In that light, I think it's all right. I trust all medical and healthcare professionals in order to obtain sufficient information about medicines, whether it is available on the Agency's website or in the package leaflet. All the other rules apply to commercial advertising that is public and commercial. All of this can be read in a paper with the bill. This is a special Regulation published in the European Economic Area, where specific rules apply to how such advertisements should be used. It is rather clear as to what to appear or cannot be revealed in such advertisements. My time is up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u91	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir's Daughter for an excellent speech, and especially since she is one of them. The head of health committee is on the committee's list of members that follow the legal bill we are considering. She made an explanation for her signing, which she did in advance. I thank her for that explanation. I'm going to say the word. A senator says it's unclear. I understand this warning because - well, we can put it in a way that doesn't care about drugs. I agree with the opinions presented here, that in all cases we should seek information and rely on professionals when it comes to drugs and drugs and their effectiveness and their effectiveness. I can also say that I generally believe that the person is responsible for his own health and that he is generally responsible for himself and the decisions he makes, of course, we need to have access to good information. Hv. A member of the council also made it possible for a general public health to be a subject for a special discussion. Thus, if we talk about the professional, it says from the surgeon's office that increased advertising will increase sales and use will increase, as it is the purpose of advertising, this does not serve public health, and because the office does not consider it to be reasonable and the argument in comments in the bill itself is trivial. [[The president calls.]] How does he react? A senator of that statement?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u92	V.E.G. President. The bill discussed here is just two articles that discuss two very marked aspects of the medication. It's actually because of the fact that these factors are the ones I'm using on the committee, but with the advance I made clear. I agree and support my mind on the things that have been done, e.g. in the discussion here, that it needs and is desirable to have an overall review of the medications. I believe that what the surgeon's comments say should not be taken lightly, since I think that it is quite accurate that commodities can have both unpleasant and dangerous side effects; hence, they should not advertise drugs or at least not associate with drugs that are each other's products. To say, I feel that we need some whole system of this because I think otherwise it can cause even more confusion. I don't know if this will exactly answer the question of the senator, but I'm asking him to repeat it again for me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u93	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. Hv. A senator's reply was well answered, and particularly what was involved in an advance explanation followed by a statement made by an official surgeon and a public health expert. Hv. A senator rightly pointed out that the bill focuses mainly on two points. The first to be taken away and the discrimination involved in banning advertising on television against other media. I agree with what. Of course, discrimination in this relationship is not acceptable, for it is in accordance with the opinion of both the committee and those who have discussed the matter. On the other hand, what is indicated is in advance. A senator, i.e. The information we're dealing with, we're not talking about free-selling drugs. The committee's opinion provides an excellent example of this to experts. So I continue with a statement made by a surgeon and an addition to the Commission opinion when the surgeon's office pointed to the fact that in the bill, the argument is not fair to public health. Counts 'em out. A member of the committee and the Committee's opinion that it was sufficiently improved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u94	V.E.G. President. I'm not sure I understand what's going on. A senator is asking me, it depends on my limitations here this afternoon. I can assure you, though. On the contrary, it was not easy for a member of the council to discuss this matter. A significant discussion was made in the Committee that drugs are not as common as any market, and should not be associated with them as such because they are consumed at the wrong dose or as a cure for some particular medical condition, where these are not relevant, they may be very dangerous and are incompatible with the public health standards of taking non-needed medicinal products. The discussion was very much discussed, and the members of the committee were greatly asked. When should we say that we've had enough coverage? It is always difficult to draw a clear line about it and certainly a very different view in this regard. I think that's what. A medical committee sought to look at these matters clearly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u95	V.E.G. President. As I told you earlier, it's a rather complicated matter, even if it's not easy. I'm one of the people who misunderstood it just this morning, and it might be a good thing if the committee explained the difference between parsity 14th. and 16. I'm gonna stop at 14. That's 1st par. in the bill changes, which includes the journals professional and advertising in them. I'm not going to make any comment about the fact that professionals are allowed to watch drugs at markets, and maybe it's important. But I'd like to stop a little more than 16. The bill says, with President's permission: ▪ The center of the bill is to eliminate the difference made between the media when it comes to commercial sales. I think it's good to try to meet this goal, but I'm aware that my goal is to fulfill it in the wrong direction. We should try to reduce the use of medicines rather than encourage use. However, the aim of advertising is to increase use. I'd like to support a recent project that was employed in marketing and ethics at the university that has something to do with the same. In fact, there are some examples of sugar, but these are market - based moral issues. With a large supply and competition at a fixed market, everyone wants to present his product. Just how far we are going is different, and it is designed to increase demand. A book by Degeorge presents a law about marketing in advertising and the subject is discussed. The first law is about the immorality of false, misleading, misleading advertising. The manufacturer makes mistakes either deliberately or unintentionally. Without taking too much details, I'd like to give you an example of a market campaign with the candy company of Noah-Sirius. It was going to launch a product called Agitiv, designed as a form of mystoprotein that was a good compromise and a guarantee of loyalty. During the day, it came to be just like other sugars products sold by the company, except by the added protein. I think there is one example of what the markets are wrong with in order to sell their goods. If we compare the content of Aktivev, a candy bar with Trombbit, we can see that sugar and carbohydrate levels are similar to those of Aktiv's containing extra protein and were advertised as a good alternative. I'm concerned that many manufacturers are trying to deceive consumers by making advertising a mistake and thus drawing wrong conclusions. I'm afraid this is going to happen when we bring a drug ads on TV. When they are on radio or newspapers, they may not be so much an opportunity for producers to communicate as much. It could be half true, be trustworthy, not misleading, and yet immoral. The second law, with the permission of a president, deals with the immorality of manipulated people and forced them through advertising. In this regard, it is said that the aim of advertising is primarily to convince consumers to buy the goods and the ministry. I'll give you an example of this, which is actually related to sugar, as is the case. Movies usually take a break so that people buy more candy at the shop. Also at other times, an advertisement from a candy company is shown with the aim that the advertisement reaches consumers, so that they will feel the need to buy these sugar products. If we apply this to what I know best, exercise, a number of athletes have been pushed into the head so that they will not be successful unless they eat dietary supplements. If you practice exercise, the advertising powers have introduced the product so that you can't succeed unless you take food supplements. Because it's like this in the world I know, I'm afraid it's also going to happen in the drug world, that it will be believed that they won't be able to finish practice or achieve full recovery by the next practice unless, for example, they're anti-inflammatory. I'm afraid of this because of what we're doing at the university. The third law in this book deals with the morality of predestination in advertising. Some goods are far from good for consumers. In front of me, I have an example of smoking being dangerous to people's health. Alcoholism is the result of alcohol abuse. There are probably more people who get hooked than we know. I know people who have been addicted. If we compare this with smoking and alcohol, they are forbidden by law, at least by law. On TV. It also states that in 2011 it did not forbid advertising the skirt, but it laid the highest level. the local Minister of Internal Affairs Ögmundur Jónasson gives the bill that alcohol counsel would be tightened and that non-alcoholic drinks that were sold in packaging, which were very similar to alcoholic beverages. When dolls look just like beer, two goods are being advertised at once. If we apply this to the bill we have now, I don't think most people know what they're buying at the pharmacy. Many medicines are very similar with similar effects but with different side effects. Yeah, I'm afraid that's also what I'm afraid of. The fourth law relates that it is immoral to forbid certain types of advertisements. I'm not going to get into it much, the example mentioned here is a dirty sex scene to advertise a product. The Constitution of Iceland says that freedom of expression can only be imposed by law for the sake of the Universal Order or State's security, for the protection of human health or morality or by the rights or reputation of others, as it is necessary and compatible with democratic traditions. All of this said, I believe it is safe to say that when the pharmaceutical law was given in 1994, when only newspapers, radio, and television were published, the marketing of the Internet had been banned if it had been as extensive as it has become today. Of course, I state that it is a child's time to simply forbid on television what is allowed everywhere else. I don't think that in this bill we're going the wrong way, but I also want to know it here and now that in general I don't approve of banning things. I generally believe that people are to take responsibility for themselves, for what they do or what they do in life. I'm just afraid the market is going to take over this and try to misbehaviour. Advertising has an effect. The best products are not necessarily the most sold, but perhaps the best advertised ones. This may cause ordinary people to stop looking to doctors for advice and to apply what is advertised or popular. Some nut. A senator mentioned earlier that this is a hook-up route, and I'm afraid that if we take this no-way route, we will not be back to an overall study with the intention of reducing the use of drugs and reducing the publication of this procedure. I have in mind one slogan that I find morally wrong. It hangs on a sign in a seagulla that says, "Ibufen, enjoy the time." [[Up front.]] I'm afraid these slogans will be more when they get on TV. Let me make this my last words: Ibufen, enjoy the time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u96	V.E.G. President. I don't mean to keep this far, but this hit me a little because I hadn't noticed the commercial sign since then. paritaprevir Einarsson mentioned. Of course, there is a danger of seeing more of this. What I was going to ask you. Because I am one of the partners of this committee opinion, a senator will do what he would do if a pack of drugs were to be placed in a similar way to tobacco, which would warn against the side effects of the medicines. If I just talk to myself, I usually swallow the positive medicine if I have a headache or something and sometimes I don't wonder what the package leaflet says, which is perhaps completely careless. But when you look at this package leaflet, you see that the side effects are often extremely serious and sometimes you think, " Oh, my Guð, am I taking these when I have a little headache, am I taking some pills, and can I almost have a stroke by taking them? ' Of course, these are rare cases. I'd like to ask you what. Senator: What would he do if the medication packs were marked with reserve labels so that people would think only before taking any medicine?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u97	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna start by saying thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. She compared packs of drugs to tobacco. I can't believe that any possible side effects of this medicine are not already on the pack. If not, I think it should be marked immediately. I think the meanings on tobacco are certainly boring. I haven't seen tobacco advertised anything intelligent in the media, I don't think it's forbidden, so I don't know if it can be compared much together. Hv. A senator spoke of it when people have headaches, and many have headaches or migraines or anything. We see headaches on TV, some picture where the pain disappears in zeros alone, and there's little talk about side effects because they're on the pack. People go out and buy the medicine, and the headache's supposed to go. Because people feel bad, they do not necessarily wonder what the side effects are because the pain is severe now and they deal with the consequences later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u98	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna keep this brief. You're right. A senator, of course, says that the information is already available on the medication package, on some piece of paper that is glued to and sometimes mixed up. You almost rip him off and throw him in the trash, that's what it's like. What I was thinking was, if information about the side effects of these drugs were more accessible, that would be some kind of meaning or symbol that would indicate that this was not a regular consumer product. It is hoped, as has been a lot in recent discussions and is a research project at some clinics, that motor notes will become better new and more useful instead of taking drugs, that they get a track walk in our society, because moderate exercise can do amazing things for people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u99	V.E.G. President. I'll thank you later in return. Yeah, I think there could be more to do, for example. with symbols or by placing the three worst or three most common side effects on the outer box or the packaging of your medicines. Hv. A senator earlier noted that drugs are not ordinary consumer products. There are some other products that are not ordinary consumer products, such as alcohol and tobacco. Advertising these products is forbidden because advertisements encourage increased use and consumption. On the same basis, because this is not a regular consumer product, I don't want the consumption of these drugs to increase, especially because it can be, as I mentioned in the talk, on false grounds in the power of marketing work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u100	Madam President. Well, half of all, I'd like to get involved in their party party party debates about apartments, but I'd like to wish them. A congratulating senator, both with good speech and with the courage he shows by rebelling against the Supreme Court. Secretary of health. I'll rather lean on the swing with what I'm talking about. Senator. I thought his speech was very good and convincing. In terms of the idea of special meaning, I think that if you were put on the hive package, four black skulls, you might not enjoy the time very much, so I might refer to the good slogan as the night. A senator mentioned earlier. What I wanted to ask you. The senator will consider the following. He said that taking the hook - up route they're taking on the bill would possibly prevent a global attack on advertising and pharmaceuticals in general. My question is, " Count back." A senator may consider it advisable to direct this matter to the Ministry, the Institute of Medicine, or whatever the case may be, to take full control of the situation? People have been groping about this for decades. In 1993 or 1994, I recall a delay in the implementation of two chapters of the drug law because they wanted to investigate the effects of ads. I don't think that results have ever come. However, they are now available. They are clearly defined by a letter and the address of a surgeon. He says it's pushing too much drugs, and drugs aren't normal products, I agree with that. That's what a senator does. But what does he say about what I asked him about?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u101	V.E.G. President. I think that if we agree with it this way, we've come too far in one direction to be able to go to the place that seems reasonable to me. I think that by either saving this case or reaching the goal by going the other way, as I described in the previous talk - I say this because I think the information technology has so advanced that the legislation remains, and I think it can be said about other matters, that the legislation has remained. I couldn't find anything about advertising on the Internet, either in a Regulation or in a previous law or an update to the previous law, so I think it remained, and now it's being compared to an Internet, and that's why it should be allowed, but not vice versa, because it's forbidden on TV. I believe that the views given at the time of the law still apply. Hv. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingadóttir, Igga, explained that many of the concerns involved are the same today as in 1932. I think it's looking in the wrong direction, that the Internet should be watching TV instead of vice versa.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u102	Madam President. I think it's a great idea. A senator, for men to part the bill we are discussing here, and instead of the government, they would be assigned to complete a full check on all of these packages. This will include all the underlying mediators and conclusions, but it must be based on the objectives of the pharmaceutical laws and they are completely clear. These include the fact that the commercial treatment of the medicinal product should be carried out in a way that does not contribute to excessive use and should be based on general public health opinions. This is what we are. A senator agrees that I feel that there is no work on that good day, that the younger wing of the Annexe Party is coming together with the United States Senate Senate. There's something good for both of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u103	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I think we'd agree on this. As for the overall legislation, I think it would be fine, as mentioned earlier, to cover not only the class of drugs but also the products of herbal products and even dietary supplements. Finally, I'd like to quote someone I don't remember who, that if we got to know about the evil sugar today, it would probably be forbidden.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u104	A respectable president. I'm just gonna take a quick look at this interesting discussion. In itself, I can understand the goal of allowing advertising on TV, where commercial advertising is already authorized in all other media, that may be a logical step, but I can also agree with the views presented here that it can be asked whether products like drugs can be advertised. It has been noted that if it can be advertised, it may increase competition and it will be good for consumers. I'll be the first person to agree that increasing competition is good for consumers, and it's important that many people compete for consumer favors. But I don't necessarily place the same evidence between the more advertised traders, so the competition is likely to increase. I'm going to remember that a few years ago, I did a little merit check on eye drops. It is a very expensive warning, and I learned that in Denmark and Sweden, more eye drops were used to treat hay fever. I started thinking about why less expensive species sold in Sweden and Denmark were not sold in Iceland. Then it turned out that there were some rules and I had a conversation with the Institute of Medicine about it. I don't remember exactly what it was that prevented the sale, it was said that the eye drops weren't quite good enough. But if they're allowed in Denmark and good enough for Danish consumers or patients, I must ask why you can't allow the same products here. I think it might be much more a problem that we don't allow enough wide goods. Of course, there is always a need to ensure that the medicinal products are safe, and we now remember the antirheumatic medicine Vixx, which was directly taken out of the market when serious side effects were observed. There are several examples of this, so it's about taking a careful step to the ground, but I can't see that there's an increase in advertising. If I need any medicine, I'll go to the pharmacy and I'll look at what there are, and if there are two species, it'll tell me that there's no market competition, and if there are five different species, it's better already. In Iceland, it is often discussed that drug abuse is more than moderate, and an authority somehow put it to the point that people would not take drugs because it was just ◯, not buy drugs just for fun. This may be the case, but at the same time, we need to reduce the amount of medication we use, and if we say there is a need to reduce the amount of medication, we are actually saying that people are in some and many cases taking nonessential drugs. I think it's a project. What I would like to focus on is that I find it very strange if those who sell and advertise free-selling drugs do not need to tell you about the positive effects of the medication but do not need to be aware of the harmful effects of the drugs. Even when it comes to food, they are tried to grasp this by setting health standards, so if the manufacturer says: Salt is low or salty, certain conditions are met. I don't know if there are similar rules about drugs. I am satisfied that people take responsibility for their health and that they are responsible to choose and refuse, but they cannot shoulder that responsibility if they are not given the information. Where's the information? They're on some piece of paper that's been shown in this package, and you open them and read them after you buy your product. People don't get information about side effects from their pharmacist before they buy, they don't have to be specifically informed, you have to ask. And someone here said, "We're so aware of this, we know this, we go online and we look over, but we never aim at the worst in society when it comes to information. We're supposed to aim for everyone to understand the information. We who are in here and have somehow infiltrated this council are probably in a position to get on the Internet and ask the right questions. Not all of this is there, and in all of this, it is necessary to protect those who are least able to understand complex information. I find it serious if there is to allow advertisements and today to be allowed advertising where there are air-positive medications without having to be able to handle side effects. I don't think that's okay. There are three reviews that especially caught my attention. The first is from a surgeon who puts out a word, saying: "Secrets have unpleasant and even dangerous side effects, and their increased use does not improve the health of the public. " I don't think it's possible to just put it in a drawer as if it didn't matter. The management of Icelandic gerontologists writes: "It is very important that the advertisement itself both refers to medicinal product and major side effects. I agree completely with this. Of course, it is not surprising that the number of people who sell, the society of professional drivers, and others continues to be very different. A review of Iceland's Business Council says, with permission from the President: ▪ Reaching the bill, individuals will be more able to identify the options available for various health problems. This may mean that fewer doctors need to be contacted because of an emergency they can handle by themselves on one trip to the pharmacy. Medicinal product subject to medical prescription and the package leaflet of the particular medicinal product are sufficient to allow the patient to be able to determine if or not the medicinal product is suitable for use. In fact, by limiting advertising of drugs in the way that has been done in this country, there is a limit to the access of individuals to information about the resources they have to improve their health. I think it's a bit much of a argument here, so I'm just saying right now. There is a debate over the power of advertising, but if it is so massive, as the above claim, it is possible to reduce health costs if consumers themselves can assess the effect of drugs from the advertisements, it is not compatible with the debate, e.g. start when you talk about advertisements that focus on children when advertising inaccessibles. They say: Advertising has limited impact; it does not have to worry about that. So this transfer is in either the ankles or the ear. Either the advertisements make such an impression that it is possible to cut health costs or when it is time to advertise the insecurities to children, the evidence is the case, and I have read reviews, that the power of advertising is not as great as many people think. But I think it's absolutely basic that you have to be informed about the product and side effects in advertisements and outside the packaging and that if you go to the pharmacy, you should actually be told about side effects. I'm going to review the only battle I can remember that allowed nicotine to be sold in stores like cigarettes to meet certain conditions. The argument against that by segregators, i.e. apata, they were that it was important to get this knowledge from the pharmacy that one of the Bishops couldn't provide. But I haven't noticed when I buy something in the pharmacy that I get special information, so I'm gonna have to work it out and ask for it. Not that the service is always good and that I don't belittle it, but it's being a big part of it if it's said that employees are giving all the information they need, of course it's not. And it is becoming increasingly apparent that some medicines, such as painkillers and anti-inflammatory medicines, may have serious side effects. I want to reiterate what the surgeon himself said in an interview I noticed and I was glad that he himself would never take medication if it wasn't absolutely necessary. Drugs are not like any other warning, and that is why we are having this discussion here. But I'm hoping, I don't know if there would need another bill or a change in other rules, but I think a very important point is that if we're going to increase the freedom I'm quite happy with, we'll make sure the information to consumers is there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u105	Madam President. Thank you. A senator's talk that I loved very much. What I've been able to listen to today has been very revealing to me. You see, this often with bills that seem to be unconcerned to talk about them, as it has been today, cause people often become more aware of what the bills contain that many may not have been aware of before. The Senator spoke a great deal about considering that everyone understands the information, and I thought it was a very good point, considering that everyone understands and ensures that everyone understands the significance of taking some medication instead of assuming that we who are on hand can look for information about it online or where it is now. But not everyone is in a position to do so. I thought it was a very interesting point and just as to whether we could not turn our responsibility to those selling the drugs. It has now been shown that in Regulation of the marketing information, it is presented in Article 7. regarding advisability directed to the general population that the name of the medicinal product should be included together with a synonym, necessary information on the use, important precautions, warnings and dosing, and the necessary motivation to read the instructions and all the things we want to be public. That's why I'd like to ask if what. A senator believes that we are, in effect, reducing the value of existing rules, not just on TV advertisements, but on drugs, whether in magazines or elsewhere. Then I'll ask you another question later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u106	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. As I've felt the discussion has developed here, I feel like I'm in this state of health against commercial freedom. Like what? A senator said, it's a matter that may be trivial, but when you start reading the reviews, there's something else. It shows how important and important it is to listen to the stakeholders in this matter as well as to everyone else. Often, I would like to hear more comments about the subject because it is extremely important. But as for the information, it confused me a little and took time to realize that it was the product ads directed toward the health - class groups, in some sort of professional magazines and such things, and then on TV advertisements, allowing commercial advertising. The need for all pack size and price to be included in the TV advertisement was discussed at the outset, but as can be seen in the report, this is not required, not in the TV advertisement. I think we've come to that conclusion. What I'm stressing is that the side effects, the three most common side effects, will be listed in drug advertisements. Regarding whether this can increase the competition, I think we should rather watch whether we are too strict when we allow new drugs, drugs that are permitted elsewhere in the North countries. Of course, it is better to have five or ten species on the market than two. It was only shown in this eyeglass that there is actually only one person with the market, and he can behave the prices freely.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u107	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree that we're supposed to let the public health concerns outweigh the commercial logic and it sounds to me that there's a lot of harmony here, but despite that, this case is for consideration and not a change in that state. It may now be understood that some people may speak a little against their own convictions, some of them at least, and will be interesting to see when there is a vote on this matter. This has only been discussed with herbal products, herbal supplements, and supplements, as it does not seem to be the exact same requirement. It is a gray area, and it is a question of whether the senator believes that these material should be counted under the same law or be subject to the same principles when it comes to advertising, since it does not seem to me that it does. Hv. A senator who spoke before precisely one group of people, sports people, where there was much incentive to increase his consumption of food supplements and nature drugs and such things, whether it was just a part of becoming a part of his sport that requires that you take ibuprofen or some anti-inflammatory medicine. I think it's a very interesting approach, and that's why you wonder whether the same rules should apply to them. Now I'm told that before the council there's another bill, on pharmacovigilance I think the name involved in observation, including Regarding side effects and other matters, it is at a health committee and may have been necessary to discuss this matter so that the matter could be kept under better control. But I would like to know if the senator believes that we should, in fact, let these herbal supplements, supplements, and so on, submit to the same laws as drugs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u108	A respectable president. I think it's all too much jungle, and I don't really figure out what the rules are about food supplements, I don't know them, it seems like you're getting a lot older there, but I can't really answer that in itself. But we can also take the example of cosmetics. Beauty ads promise a lot of things. There's something called "Do not deceive the consumers," general legislation on that, but I know that, for example. In Britain, there is an institution that monitors cosmetics, and it is very long in testing the law. If you're talking about 30% of wrinkles disappearing, it's said: "Show it up, bring the data. " Companies were judged for advertising mascara, which extended their eyelash by 20% or something, and in the commercial picture, the woman had fake hair. The company was fined. It's also about the surveillance. I don't know the rules about the supplements, but it's just as important that the surveillance is okay and there's some sort of option and parking warrants. We need to do the same. I wouldn't be mad if this case went through because, as the situation is right now, it's allowed to advertise free-selling drugs everywhere except on TV, and I don't really think it's fair. However, I would feel that there would be a need to reevaluate this and do what we're talking about here, in view of the fact that this is not the same as any other product, that there are side effects, even serious side effects of the use and abuse of these drugs, to ensure that this information is presented. We've talked about better food markings here at the council because we know that people are always ready to advertise the benefits of the product but even try to hide the benefits. This is what consumers live with.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u109	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much, but there are views that I would like to promote. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Olsen Gunsdóttir's Gunnarsdóttir that this discussion was a good one and a shaper of our attitude. It gives us information and explains it. After the discussion, I am convinced that this matter should be postponed, that these laws should not be approved now. I would like to agree with the viewpoints that have been presented, e.g. When co-administered, the risk was increased. paritaprevir Just in this case, Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir's temper highlights advertising information. She referred to a surgeon who has specific warnings about drug advertisements and that many medications are not intended to improve the health of the public. But then the natural danger is that the applicant has little interest in presenting such warnings, the nature of the matter. He promotes his product. I'd like to agree too with what. paritaprevir Haraldur Einarsson, who mentioned three key points. First, he said that advertising is the nature of a case in order to increase and stimulate the use of drugs, we should avoid that fact. On the one hand, he urged that the drug law be taken in whole for counterreview, and he questioned that this change, opening up free drugs on television, would pay for this. On the contrary, we should put the bill aside and instead make a full reexamination of the pharmaceutical Law and the advertisement's sources. The third thing he mentioned, and I think it's important that when advertising is on the side of the media, it doesn't matter who it is, and the fact is that TV advertising is much more superficial than printing advertising, for example. The accent is different, and the message is different. Advertising is not good or bad. On the other hand, we have good advertising, and we have bad advertising. Good advertising is good, simply because it communicates with us about products and services, and it is good for us as consumers. As a result, in the overall sense, TV advertising workers have shown little responsibility, and we have come a long way from the phase that Ralph Nader reached in the 1960s when he wrote his book Unafe at ay sped, unsure at any rate, and referred to automobiles. In the United States, Chevrolet Corvair was the one he handled specifically and became famous. He stressed that they should be motivated by advertisements to observe the laws and rules, not solely that, but that they always tell the truth. When they claimed that they were selling the best washing machine in the world, they were placed against the wall and made to demonstrate it. The same with the laundry as with any product. This lack is quite lacking, that consumer organizations worldwide have been able to force advertising and producers and salesmen to enter that channel of Naders Ralph's, and we are to strengthen consumer organizations in that goal, because we want advertising that are up - to - date and good. Advertising on television is, in general, very difficult to figure out, sooner than quite at the end of the advertisement on what it is doing, what is being advertised. It's a thought - provoking program of slides and concerts, and then at the end, it comes to the end that it's the coffee that makes this well-being, or what it is. The banks show happy people, but they do not tell us about the interest rate or what the loans are. If they did, I would welcome such advertisements, and good advertisements are desirable. On the other hand, using TV advertisements, I agree with that. paritaprevir Haraldur Einarsson and again reiterate that the medium is relevant here, is likely to have a message other than one that would appear on a print medium. It is more likely that we will receive all the warnings and side effects listed. In his advertisement on television, the ad is not impressed by saying that this could harm the people or the public's health, it never does. He will likely do the same as the beer producer who turns the law we have to promote beer into an advertisement by placing it in tiny type, which no one will see to it that we are drinking unsatisfactory. This is what's going to happen. The danger is that it will also happen with the medicines that little will happen to any possible harmful effects or such information. I think that when we think about this, we should go about it. paritaprevir Haraldur Einarsson and put the bill aside and encourage the highest power. The minister of health and welfare committee of the council to handle the matter in such a way, to make a complete opinion of the matter, while leaving this bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u110	A respectable president. I recommend an extension party with a bill-change proposal to correct the change of earth law, No. 81/2004, with subsequent changes, which are a solution from agricultural use and sell to the state. The committee has discussed the matter again and proposes, on the one hand, to the prenup according to Article 5. which in terms of land transplants, formerly performed in Sandwelling, has been met or has been reassigned to the Agency only if the land provided has been placed in accordance with the 1st and 2th figures in 1stmgr. Section 4. The bill. These numbers tell us that a resident has lived for at least seven years and that he himself uses land for breeding and bait. which is more specific. However, the Committee suggests that land under the above conditions will not be sold if it is partly protected by nature. The committee also suggests the rendering of the final verses 5th. will be put in place where the bill is proposed to use the wording, to change land use, to indicate that land is released from agricultural use. At the same time, the Committee suggests an expression change in the c-join 6. The bill in order to put aside any conflict that might be referred to the reviewers according to Article 39. Depending on this article, you will not be asked to make an assessment. It is also suggested that the panels take into account the leading cases on the basis of the land's payment or possession costs and the cost to each State's land transplant, Sand transplantation, has been involved in the healing of the country. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st Five o'clock. a. The preceding paragraph is a headline, saying, Sales a land which is laid up. b. Instead of the words, and not being released from agricultural devices for the next ten years, come: and the use of the land will not be changed for the next ten years. c. We'll add two new paragraphs, as follows: Preservation is also under conditions where the intelligence of the earth that used it was placed in accordance with Figures 1 and 2. 1.mg. 36 st. And to prepare, or to owner, if there is any man besides prepare, make a proclamation. Number 3. Same paragraphs. Country by 1.mg. cannot be sold separately or completely as part of a natural protection area. Eight. Section 3. law on nature protection. 2. Subsequent material sections c-joins 6.g. "Let it be said, 'There is a controversy in the price of sale.' Case one. it should be referred to by Thirty-nine. Is God's Way of Life? No. 80/2004, to the final decision and shall be considered as a rule number 1. to the fundamental. Jón Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson and Kristján L. Möller were away from the hearing. This is taken in advance by Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. A Björt Ólafsdóttir writes this in advance of price prices according to Article 5. The bill. Rather, it should be based on market prices and given a discount as appropriate. Under these words Paul Páll Jóhann Pálsson Paul the son of Paul, Haraldur Benediktsson, Þórunn the Egilsdóttir of Eglurs, the Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, the daughter of Mike and Björt Ólafs Ólafsdóttir, in advance. In addition, I recommend an adjustment of the word change from Jón Gunnarsson: 1st Instead of the words, the combined size of the region is in case of the 3rd. 2th paragraph. 2.g. come: the entire area. 2. Five o'clock. a. Instead of the words of the government's possession, come the word: Sandplant of Iceland. b. Instead of the words, which were once right to buy it when the land is well - watered, in the opinion of a land - healing provider. Section 12. the law on land healings came: which once belonged to the country to purchase it without commercial purposes, since the country is sufficiently well healed by the land's head's assessment of land healing. Section 12. the treatment of agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u111	Madam President. I would like to recommend a commission about a bill to correct any change in salmon and trout law through subsequent changes. A professional health committee was contacted by a number of visitors. The subject of the bill is the Supreme Court judgment in case of No. 676/2013 of March 13, 2014, testing the rules on the rights of a hunting society to carry and dispose of its property. It was shown in the court that the decision made by a hunting company for the preparation of fishing in their social area and at the same time as the decision for the restaurants and restaurants at the specified fishing times fell within the range of salmon and trout fishing laws, such as the c- and d- team 1 mgr. Thirty-seven. The law. In such cases, 8 mg was valid. 40. g. The law that if not otherwise recommended by law or by approved society, the force of votes should rule. However, the Supreme Court persuaded hunting society to sell other restaurants for general restaurants and restaurants in a hunting house apart from a defined fishing period to be a major decision in the sense of the unrecognised rules of ownership of special partnerships and whether or not she considered to be normal or unusual. To make such a decision, therefore, it would have had to be the approval of all members of the community. For the latter part, the Hæstiréttur Court used the general rules of ownership for special partnerships, as there is no provision for the treatment and disposition of a hunting society in the laws of salmon and trout. The Supreme Court felt that the decision of all the food courts would have to be based on selling fishing houses on rent outside a designated fishing period under the law. According to the first hearing, 2 mg. 74. g. The Constitution is not obligatory to members. However, according to the following articles, such a duty can be stated by the law if necessary for a society to perform a legal function for the sake of the public or the rights of others. Targets 1. the management of salmon and trout fishing is a source of fresh water fishing and the sensible, practical and sustainable use of freshwater fish stocks and their protection. The committee noted, however, that in the above trial there was no disagreement on the subject of self - obligation. The Supreme Court states that the challenge of hunting associates is limited at any given time to the work given by the lawgiver and that it must be in close relation to the purpose of the law and the objective required to ensure it. The bill suggests that a fishing society can eliminate social and social property as most profitable for members as well as that a fishing partner will be permitted to dispose of possessions outside fishing hours for related activities. The bill adds the above work to the 37th par. the layer of salmon and trout fishing where the projects of a fishing society are listed. A hunting society's role is to own possessions, and it seems reasonable that a fishing society can also make possible a holding of possessions as long as such arrangements are in accordance with the objectives of the law. The committee is on trial in 1st. The bill is the source of non-fishing properties and the authority of a hunting society under the control of non-fishing activities under the obligation of a mandatory operation and will be discussed with the law's purpose. The committee feels that it is proper to point out that with law No. 14/2014, of the change in salmon and trout law, was a legal law that the traders were not personally responsible for its commitments. In view of the obligation of hunting communities, it was considered necessary to state this clearly in the law that does not end up clearly under the existing law whether or what the responsibility of individual members could bear on commitments that would have been established because of a hunting partner's activities. The committee proposes that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Jón Gunnarsson and Ásmundur Friðriksson were away from the case, but publications considered this with a warrant in 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Generals' Committees. Under countless printed page. The members of the council, the one standing here, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, Director Jón Gunnarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Ólafsdóttir Ólefurdóttir, Kristján L. Möller, Pálsson, Þöstein Sæmundsson, and Egilsdóttir Egilsdótir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u112	A respectable president. I would like to recommend the National Committee's Committee of Professional Roads, members of the Committee, with a dynamic proposal for bill change of law No. 22/1998, the fishing and implementation of foreign ships in Iceland's fishing weekend, with subsequent changes, of state operations. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by Arnór Snæbjörnsson, Jóhann Guðmundsson and Sigríður Norðmann frá the atvinnuvega of - og nýsköpunarráðuneyti, Gísli Gíslason of Iceland's Reconnaissance and Björgólfur Ingason from Iceland's National Reservation Guard. The committee received reviews of the case from the National Association of Iceland, Iceland's National Health, the National Association of Smallboaters, and the Society's Associations in the Sea Road. The bill suggests changes in the fishing and implementation of foreign ships in Iceland's fishing weekend, in accordance with national agreement on prevention, prevention and eradication of illegal, unsupervised, unsupervised, unsupervised hunting. This contract recommends the obligation of the states to use governments to promote responsible fishing and suggests the interpretation of the contract for the review of this council. The objective of the bill is to strengthen the monitoring of foreign ships fishing and to include changes to the obligation of a foreign fishing vessel to report the fishing of ships before reaching the Icelandic port and monitoring procedures of the European government for that reason. Commenting on the matter, we noted that the decision to dismiss a ship and to enforce such a decision was unclear. The Commission points out that the National Guard has a federal watch but in cooperation with the Fishing Room. The committee is aware that representatives of the Ministry have met with representatives of the authorities and have been clarified and determined to agree to eliminate any possible uncertainty that may exist on the procedure of the law. The committee suggests that the terms of the agreed contract will be fixed in Article 4. The bill. The committee also suggests the addition of provisions for the change of Article 4. The law states that location, policy, and speed should be set at least every 12 hours and that flags should be maintained whenever foreign ships sail through Icelandic fishing weekend. The committee suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st After Team 1. Let a new letter be seen, as follows: Instead of the reference '-1⁄2,How is it done? mg/kg; 4 mg/ 4 mg/kg. it appears: "The earth is full of violence. " mg 2. 2.g. Put it this way: The following changes will occur in Article 4. The law: a. Before the word "stolen " in a second language. appears as follows: at least b. After Two. There comes a new court order, as follows: A foreign fishing vessel, and a fishing vessel, which sails through Icelandic fishing waters, shall have its flag for identification. c. Endnote will be removed. 3. The first material of Article 4. Words say: This law includes the introduction of an ocean contract to measures to prevent, prevent, and eliminate illegal, uninformed, and unsupervised, unsupervised, and unsupervised fishing. Kristján L. Möller and Egilsdóttir Eglursdóttir were away from the case, but the following senators signed the commission: I, a guide in the absence of Ólafsdóttir Olafursdótir, Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the Committee, Magnúsdóttir Humneyd Magnneydóttist, Haraldur Benediktsson, Páll Pálsson, and Haraldur-Einarsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u113	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend the Committee on a bill to correct the treatment of fires and to provide protection against greenhouse gases from a greater part of the environment and transport committee. The aim of these laws is to put a clear frame around the crevices, the burnings, and the handling of fires in the open field. The main changes are becoming a law-enforcement bill only allowed by the legislatures in which agriculture is practiced and merely a logical purpose for farming or farming and then, under the written permission of a businessman. It will be forbidden to burn the fires unless you have written permission of a businessman except if you are burned less than a third of a mile of material. The nominee is three-wayd. It discusses the crippling, burning, and then the dangers of vegetation. I'm gonna start my case on the burners. In 1st. Section 3. The bill points out the principle that the bill will not be allowed to be burned by the bill. An exception from the prohibition reaches the inhabitants or owners of a legal home where agriculture is practiced but is permitted to burn them in a rational way to allow the businessman's permission. Before granting permission for a burn, the businessman should consult with the police chief, and trader, health care committee, and fire departments must accept permission for the fire. Clearly, the air quality of those who may be close to a fan but also that the air pollution can spread over large areas if the winds turn like that. Comments also present doubts about the benefits of soil and crops, and similar doubts were raised by members of the Committee. It was noted that the process of burning was ancient and could be attributed to the lack of adequate equipment for the conquest of the land and the use of burn materials, which were now based mainly on old traditions, which varied depending on land parts. However, it cannot be excluded that in some cases tendons may be necessary, and in comments to the bill, the benefits of burning tendons are also to be broken, especially where they are high. The majority of the data shows 2 mg. Section 3. The bill, which underlies a ban on tendons where public risk can be induced or damaged by nature, bird life, moss, guacamole, forest, or manpower, is almost consistent with Article 2. track No. 61/1992 except forests have been added to the list of rules. In view of the greater part, the bill consists of a distinct space for tendons by intensifying their requirements and setting detailed rules. Snakes are on the decline, and it is normal to take extreme care of them and to make sure that the public risk is not affected. In the 5th. The bill is published on fires and is the law's proposal, but it has been guided by the guidance on the work options for burning and burning that were published by the State's Marshals, the highest protection of the State, and the Bruising Institute in 1999. According to the directive, a burning of more than one cubic feet [1 cu m] of material is required. Both the Committee stated that there was a strict order and that there should also be a permit for all burns, as small burnings are often burned in areas where there may be considerable danger if they spread, e.g. in summer homes or forest areas where people gather. It was then found that there was a discrepancy between this law and the above - mentioned guidance in relation to the time of burning. The committee points out that if the bill becomes a law, it needs to be determined whether it is proper to review instructions from the aforementioned committee. For burning and burning more than 1 cubic meters of materials, the approval of the businessman must be granted by the National Competent Authority in accordance with the National Competent Authority, which may result in contamination. The majority of these points point to the need to determine the amount of money for violations against the law so as to keep them from violating them. This should also be kept in mind that with permission of a fire department, information about him is brought to a publicist who then knows of the fire that enables reactants to respond quickly if necessary. A great debate was created in the Committee on Risk Foods because of plants. For other reasons than what I have already talked about, the most important plant fire in recent years has arisen. Thus, a huge fire on Migorm 2006 came about by means of cigarette lighters. In such cases, single - use carbons can be spare, especially in dense and verdant summer homes or in cultivated forests. As an example, I am especially concerned with the summer house inhabited by Grimnes, where forested areas are abundant in the summer house. Fires caused by indiscriminate treatment of fires in healed areas can be greatly damaged. It's 5 mg. 16th Brew, compare 13th to 13th. ..................... 75/2000, the fireman shall perform a fire safety program in the area of a firefighter to be placed before the countryside and to be approved by an dissecting agency. The aim of the burn prevention programme is to ensure that fire departments are thus manned, organized, equipped, educated, and trained to handle the fire - control activities they are assigned to do. According to Article 6. The bill is allowed in the burn prevention programme to set out specific areas where burn prevention is prohibited. Thus, the aims of fire - defense plan are to evaluate the dangers of fires in each area of fireman. This involves an assessment of the risk of vegetation as the nature of the matter varies from place to place. The committee noted that, unfortunately, fire - safety programs have not been produced for many firemen's territory, and they need to be corrected. The committee also stated that it would be appropriate to perform a global risk assessment of the land's vegetation, much like the high - risk estimates being prepared by floodwaters and seawaters. Lands need to be mapped because of natural fires, and these areas need to be mapped, with the greatest risk in terms of the damage that can be caused by vegetation. The majority of them refer to the Environment and Resource Ministry to investigate in cooperation with the Agency whether it is right to provide special hazards for national plant fires and the high cost of such work would be involved. In this relationship, it also needs to be determined how this would improve the local fire safety programme and how much of that risk assessment could take place within the burn prevention programmes. The majority suggest that the bill be accepted as unchanged. Under this opinion, the person here is writing, Haraldur Einarsson, or why. paritaprevir Elín Hirst, the spokesman for the case, huh? paritaprevir Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son, huh? paritaprevir Brurts the Brynjar of Níelsson, and whisk. paritaprevir Geir Jón Þórisson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u114	Madam President. I would like to acknowledge in a brief talk that I have made adjustments in this matter, which means that setting fires in the sun will be banned from everything since 2020, i.e. Five years. This is because the arguments presented to the committee and in this regard are very limited to the actual benefits of setting fires. According to the Institute of Natural Science, it has positive effects when it comes to coloring vegetation. It grows greener before it, but its nutritional value is not more, nor is its quantity in any other way. It's an old tradition to burn on fire. It differs strongly from where the country is looked down, but in my mind it is this case where the interests of the people outweigh the interests of the few. There are very few people who still engage in corrosion. This can be very dangerous when it comes to vegetation and damage to vegetation, land, and manpower. Air quality, both in which it is set on fire, has a significant negative effect, and it can spread quickly in a very large area. Of course, that is a prohibition against setting fire, but it has been done on the basis of an exception, and the bill assumes it. The only arguments I've heard for my tendons are the restoration of a country in a vein where my tendon has grown thick, thick, and hard to perform. During the five years that are until this article that I have submitted to a change in motion, i.e. The utter ban on tendons, could be considered interests, and could be met differently. I want to try to make this change here, although it is not likely to have support, especially to draw attention to the fact that it is overlooked by the law and that this matter is of very few interests, i.e. It's the right of a very few people who affect a lot of people. In this short talk, I just wanted to explain the adjustments I have made in this matter that I believe to be positive in other respects, and I will support any of the changes I make.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-28-114.u115	A respectable president. I have the committee's opinion of this matter, and it is basically improving. However, we received significant comments from Iceland's Weather Office, which largely supported the vision of the methodology assessment of nature in a wide range of contexts in which natural fires are used. I think it's very important that we do so, but it might be about this group in a larger context than we're suggesting with this bill I'm supporting. I'd like to do that in special terms, because of what you're doing. At Róbert Marshall, on the basis of a legitimate assessment of the evidence and comments we have received, we reviewed his proposal against the burns of the diatoms until the age of five. Since the law is open in this sense and we are considering it, and should do so with an open mind, how we would conduct these matters if we were to come to an early point, I find it difficult and wise to approach it in a way that makes it truly cultural, i.e. There are some farmers who are still practicing tendons because of tradition, so I am eager to say, much rather than be reasoned with any convincing scientific or mechanical evidence. To suggest that the ban take effect after five years is actually correct because it is possible to use this five - year - long period to determine whether too far is going and whether it needs to extend into the time or to enter the law to narrow down or to approach it in other ways. I like that the adjustment proposal comes out, and it's good that the discussion on this subject penetrates the council hall. While there may seem to be a small issue, this vast amount of public interest is concerned, as far as air quality is concerned and even as much danger can arise when burns get out of control, as we have unfortunately some examples.
