ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u1	A respectable president. I wanted to draw attention to the fact that today is the day that the General Work Programme has come out, and there is no other work plan in force. It is very important for us senators to see that there is a rule of Congress and that we know how we approach the current issues. I believe that it is necessary for all of us here, 63, to work together in what way Congress works to wind up. I must call for a new program to be submitted for the council. V.E.G. The prime minister who was now walking on the door has had a better speeches than most others at the council how important it is that unless there is some general line on it, on the part of the board, on the head of the council, and on all the members of the council, I must call that position clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u2	A respectable president. It is important for us at the council to keep a focus on what we are doing here and on our work and work plans and on what we can do. We are in the difficult situation now that we live in a government that seems to keep us from planning its projects and is coming in very late. In fact, it is indistinguishable that the program of transportation is on today's program, on the day the council is due to be completed. In fact, it is quite remarkable how this is organized, or not planned, but in itself it is due in many respects because there is no government. It seems that each minister is in the back of his business. I hope after this session it becomes clear to you that there is a need for some perspective and direction over one task which is being controlled by society, the government needs a work programme so that the council can live up to its plan, and it is very important that we maintain all of this. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u3	A respectable president. I would like to give the same suggestion or speculation and express my concern because the council is now out of schedule, we have no plans. The question can be asked, Was there ever a work plan valid or what meaning it has? It is not about sitting down and creating a plan together, and in reality the council is now some sort of waiting room for Congress. We hear they're on standby call, and we're on standby. Is that how the Senate should be in the future? Or do we not have to resist and try to get something out of the way and sit down and make a plan? It's bad for everyone to be here completely without a plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u4	A respectable president. The remains of the government's layer is that now that the council should be returning home, it is being recommended for the Parliament's decision on transport. Of course, there is still a waiting period for the distribution of matters that must be submitted before the end of Congress and the date of April 1 of the last administration by the Government to contribute to Congress, has become just some sort of joke when it comes to the work of this government. A respectful president of the government declared it very strongly to the secretary of the Council in the fall that if they did not present a case in time, it would be difficult to handle it. Now that the Council's Work Programme has passed, we must call for that statement to be followed, the work here will be completed, although, of course, all are ready to come back together if the situation needs to be addressed with the swelling and solution of the currency thieves, there are national interests that may require that the council be assembled. [[The president calls.]] However, traditional Senate services are to be completed today, a dignified president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u5	Mr. President. It's a difficult time for the government. I want to pray. The Senate has to be cautious in the presence of delicate souls. In this beautiful morning, I myself am at ease. Perhaps there's one thing mostly that I'm a little worried about. I've been an amateur for trying to support the government as much as I can do in this regard to the bills that could be paid for the release of a currency. I've waited a long time for them, Mr. President, and it would pay at least for my participation or failure in action if the highest level of Congress. The president could tell if the government will fulfill its declaration. Secretary of finance from the past week on the basics to be submitted this week. These are the last ones. My question is, I'm going to the highest. Ministers of finance are responding to their declarations to provide a bill that can be taken care of or prepared to take over a currency stand, or is it made available between the administrations? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u6	A respectable president. In spite of this, the government's remnant layer facilitates the government's right to implement a transport plan. today, on the day the council should be gone. I wanted to ask the highest. President, as far as it's worked out, whether there's any example of a transport program being submitted after a deadline at a council meeting, whether this is an isolated case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u7	Since the president has not studied history, he cannot answer the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u8	To answer, Prime Minister, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Industrial and Business Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, Foreign Ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u9	A respectable president. The press has recently discussed some of the government's contribution to tax reductions in order to cover agreements, but we have, in fact, received some shocking reports of what is going on there. First, I'd like to say we're glad to hear the government offer suggestions on paying taxes, and long ago it's important that the average income groups be paid, but we've also called for the tax system to be replaced for balance. As you look at the figures thrown down in the discussion and the information that have been going through the media, it seems that about half of the people get little or nothing from these changes, i.e. people on the median levels and below they receive 1 of you. K. or less, because of these changes and those less than 310 you have. K. Nothing. That's why I wanted to ask the highest. Secretary of the budget: Is this correct? How do you propose that the government meets people with low incomes who have been paying for the government's tax change so far? How will the government ensure that the elderly are benefited in the same way that the public labour market is now being negotiated? The government will make sure the elderly are up to 300. K. during the contract? What will become of the micro-energy donor, the government will provide their equal position in this regard? Will unemployment improvements also rise in the same way? In other words, what will be the contribution of the government to support those in the lower part of the income phase in these measures all?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u10	Mr. President. I welcome the opportunity to discuss the government's tax reform plans. We have long announced that we wanted to reduce taxes again, which were raised in the years after the crash, especially at the lower end and the middle end of the job, and by the simple tax system. It's not true that the government has done nothing for the low income groups. At the end of 2013, however, we increased the limit to the bottom step, and it was important for underpayers, people with less than 300 points. K. ... ingraduated. What we're going to do now is to lower the lowest level and make sure we get the benefits of the change down to everyone. We're gonna drop out the one step, but we're gonna change the criteria between the new step and the top step so it's gonna come in sooner, and we're gonna put in about 700 points. K. This ensures that everyone will benefit from the loss of tax, except for those with all the highest incomes, because the benefits of this change will exceed all the highest income groups. For fully working people, 65% will come out of this change about 50 of you. K. each year, an increase of 65% full - time workers receive about 50 of yours. K. increase per year in allowances. It is true, however, that this is true. A senator says this will be of particular benefit to the intermediate groups, but it plays very well with the results of treaties in public market agreements that highlight the increase of the lowest salary. In terms of reform, I refer to a legal arrangement for making changes in accordance with either the prices or the remunerations of society. So it's your next job to review the update on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u11	A respectable president. While we have an arrangement for improving as a result of climate change and dress development, there is no default in this and we have so much increase in the lowest wage involved, as in the contracts now the government's special decision to reflect it in the ideal pensioners. So I reiterate my question: Will the elderly receive 300 of you? K. Or not? They're going to give 300 grand to disability pensioners. K. at the end of the contract or not? That's the highest decision. There is a secretary of finance in his hands and must be returned to us. Of course, for the other part of this matter, the government has added to the subsidies of the younger income groups. A method that has been used during the past few months, but it seems that it is now missing, which is a flexible personal discount, whose personality discount is varied, and with rising incomes. Why hasn't it gone that way? [[The president calls.]] That operation would be useful to those in the lowlands and will use pensioners in an unprecedented way. [[The president calls.]] Why is this not the way to improve the quality of lost ones?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u12	Mr. President. Of course, there's a lot of social considerations based on the system today with the character discount and the direction of the change by a two-stage system. The rate of taxation is at the lowest, and it goes up as the pay goes up and continues to rise even if the pay is high. In terms of her compensation, it was not now the case with an ex - government that she viewed as being the equivalent of pay groups, i.e. that those who gain improvement from the social security system were always equal to those who work full-time. If you're preaching that policy change, it's something new to me. It didn't apply here during the last term. Farmers will change according to a legal arrangement and if it is to make any further adjustments than we have legalized, it is absolutely correct, a special decision must be made. But our ability to do so much better, as if taking pension payments up to 300 yards. K. is, of course, limited by the state of the budget at any given time. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That would be a costly way of life. A senator is preaching here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u13	Mr. President. I'm going to have to use a little time to set things straight as high as possible. The secretary of finance is hereby asking that the recording of the step-traveled tax system has increased taxes on the lowest salary. It's just the other way around. The induction of the low - income phase helped to protect underpayers completely from the tax increases that others had to carry and more than that, as studies show. I'm going to the highest. Economic and financial secretary after the position of the work for the decommission of the currency department. I'm not going to chase the highest. Minister upstairs for repeated declarations that within the next month or six months, a big step will be taken. During the past 18◯24 months, it has been highest. The secretary of finance repeats such declarations, and I believe such six months are so three times over. From that point on, I'm going to remind you of the highest statement. Two years ago, the prime minister he gave revealed that in September 2013 a new plan for execution was being made clear. Recently, it has been said that the bill is about some kind of tax at the highest level. At his party council, the prime minister baptized a stable tax, even claiming that such a bill or bill will come here this week. This suggests that the so - called treatment board has not been called together for more than a month. What was likely to be a personal consultation on this huge and globally important project has thus ended and has not even become an information sharing. I'll ask you this morning, what would it be like if a full bill is only in the hands of the government and on the way to the council today if this week should last or for the next few days? That is not later, for today the council was due to complete their assignment. Other than that: can be the highest. Will the minister of finance tell us exactly what the situation is now? Was a bill available in the government this morning? Is it coming to the council or what's the situation? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u14	Mr. President. I can't afford to let you remember that since this is a tax system change from the previous government. Let us not forget that the price of insurance personal discounts were taken away. If not, those words would have been expressed in some way, but the tax burden of the lowest wage was increased because the personal discount was disproportionate when it flared up. Then it was with the interstate phase that when we arrived in the government, it was at 240 you. K. Is that an exchange? No, there's no intermediate income. There is no question that a low wage was given an increased tax burden. We're winding off right now. I'll tell you, it hurts by how long this has taken. We concluded that the oceans would last two years when we arrived in the fall of 2008. Sadly, we have not yet produced a fully prepared program for these matters. Does a week or two, three months, even six times mean that it works well when it does?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u15	You declared...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u16	There was quite a point in what the bank manager said in his day, that we had one shot to shoot along in this case. Of course, it is all that matters when the plan shows that it is well planned and that the plan of action is being carried out. That's much more important to me. At the same time, I admit that I would like to have made this case quite a while ago, but this is a matter that had to be developed and that has taken place, even in the past few months, the last three and six references. We have had to adapt to reality and counseling our best advisers. Regarding the group of consultations, it is true that he had, as it were, been allowed to get together more often, but it could never be the technical expedient, even if I had brought all the things I know about these matters at that table and would have been over it with the officers of other classes or with the representatives of the clans, we could never have solved them. [[The president calls.]] It was always clear that this would be the main work of experts. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I've tried to share information in that field, and we will, of course, sit with that group before the ceremony. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u17	Mr. President. According to the government taxpayer's research, which has been published in the literature and in the scholar's fields, it is the fact that the proportion of the largest income-priority revenues paid in 2010, 2011, and 2012 was much lower than it was 2007 and 2008 in the government's liberal tax system, which is now to be reimbursed in some shelter from the labour agreements. That's the fact. I'm not recommending disorderly or recklessness, and we've never done so, but I think it's sad and unwise not to try to support our country's solidarity on this huge case. I don't have the answers that this is so complicated, and it takes so much experts to prepare this that calling the politicians at the table has little value. I guess we'll have to make some political decisions, choose between paths, etc.? Modern technology does not do so even if it is experts. Those answers are the highest. Ministers have nothing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u18	Mr. President. It's pretty simple to me. When you raise your tax rate, you're raising your taxes. When a man picks up a multistage tax system with bigger taxes, there's an increase in taxes. Because of the collapse of pay in the country, especially at the top of the country, the Tesseract began to change. It is true that the lowest income tenants had a lower tax burden, but this did not occur in itself because of reduced taxes, which happened because of changes in the combination. In spite of the harsh words here, I hope that we will achieve a good solidarity in handling the matter on our way into the council. I understand that men call for more consultation and information. They must know that we have sat together over these matters, and we have described all the broad lines. For example, we have considered how the matter has developed in the winter. I remember a meeting not long ago as I was sitting there, where we tried to draw out the wide lines in this. [[The president calls.]] So, of course, the discussion will be taken much deeper when the matter is brought into the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u19	V.E.G. President. Once again, we learn that the social interpretation fund is empty and will not be distributed until July 1. This is bad news for all who want to live in a community where it is a common goal to give people as much opportunity as possible. However, this is especially bad news for those who because of hearing impairment or for other reasons, the service that the social interpretation fund pays for it is that if not assigned, people miss out on the opportunity to play a game and work and do their part. In such a situation, it is also obvious that there is a great danger of discrimination about this important service on the basis of economics. Of course, discrimination in such important interests is not merely reprehensible, but it is against human rights treaties that forbid discrimination. In this regard, I also want to remind you that in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Discriminate People, governments are required to do what they can to ensure disabled people as opportunities to participate and activity in society without discrimination and without distinctions. On the implementation of the contract a great deal of agreements with the people involved in the contract. You should not have to make specific comments, but unfortunately you do not. In the organization of this service, it must be a close approach to those who are used by the government to meet their needs as well as possible. Failure to do so will result in a loss of the quality of the ministry, and public funds are being treated badly. So I want to ask the highest. The minister of education and culture what scheme he has to make to support the social interpretation fund so that the services he guarantees all year long can be performed. And how have governments cooperated with users of the services funded and discussed their suggestions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u20	A respectable president. Thank you. The candidate for the inquiry, and he wants to start by saying that this case has some history. In the past government, the decision was made to increase the pay of those working to interpret the service quite seriously and may well be reasoned with the decision, but it was neglected by the same government to ensure that capital will follow that decision. [[For example, you've had two years to...]] Then, in the course of this government, arrangements were taken to correct this situation, and funding was greatly added to the fund so that it could pay a higher wage and is now in the position of rendering service for as many hours as it once was for the increase that was unfunded by the last government. Thus, the current administrative issue has responded. I think it's a much better procedure than what was in the last government. A respectable president. The elderly were able to do this by increasing their donations to the fund, and it is clear that there is still more demand for this service than there is money. The decision has been made in agreement with the fund that in order to prevent loss of the middle period, which has been or in the fall of the previous year, there will be efforts to balance expenses over the year or beyond that period so that the situation does not occur. Of course, in these matters, such as so many others who turn to our social services, you can imagine more money, certainly, a respectable president, and this is not the only place where that situation exists. It's no problem that we keep working on those factors. It's no problem that we continue working on how we can fully secure the trust of the fund. But I'd like less, too. Foreman, a considerable job is being done in the school system of the country when it comes to interpreting a service that falls under my department and is being carried out in the schools of the country. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] However, it is not so, most respectable president, that this is the only service rendered through this fund, that is a significant service rendered on account of these cases. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u21	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Education and cultural minister answers. I had, for example, made it clear to myself what they would be like, but he did not answer my questions. I'd like to make a decision that this isn't about charity or humanity and not really politics, either. This is human rights, an opportunity to participate in the community without discrimination, and a contribution. It holds the fundamental quality of life at stake. I'd like to, too, in this relationship, let me be less than high. Minister and all of us in here on law No. 61/2011, about the status of Icelandic Sign Language and Icelandic Sign Language, which were four years old each day, and the duties of the Icelandic government under the law to nurture Icelandic Sign Language, and that it is forbidden to discriminate people by what language they use. So I want to encourage the highest. The Minister of Education and Culture, and indeed the whole government, and we in this room, to drive us off this sleaze and do what must be done in order to run this important interpretation fund so that it can be done. Something else is shameful. It's not the highest. A minister would agree with me on that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u22	A respectable president. I think we all agree. A senator as to the fact that both in this matter and in so many others who turn to the opportunities that people have to take part in the world and face a diminished potential, we all agree that we want to do the most and best to ensure that they are involved. There's a wide pot broken in our community in this regard. This is not the only place or the only project we are facing. I reiterate that this is already a major school - education service in which interpreters are being given. It is therefore wrong that such services are sometimes claimed to be the only place for such service, but of course it is another type of service. I just want to make this right. I'd like to say, sir, a respectable president, that men can compare financial contributions made by the present administrations of this legal body and the budgets that were in the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u23	A respectable president. When I'm at the highest. The minister of finance says that the government had to adapt to the realities of the currency then say his own words more than a thousand words about how unrealistic the government's ideas were in this regard. Time - to - day delays and cover - ups with suggestions do not add to the credibility of these matters. It's been very patient for two years, and I'm asking the secretary of finance if he's once again going to say that the suggestions are coming next week. A respectable president. I came up here to ask questions about other serious issues. There are the government's declarations that the Ministry of Justice has tried to influence the order of the chairman of a financial agency over which the Bank Board oversees, which is known at the Bank Management Board to ensure that the politics is not playing in the banks of the country and the least their government. I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance: Was this his fault? It was the highest. As a minister of finance, by means of his official office, who would be made the chairman of a certain savings fund? Is it true what the Bank Office says that this happened and if so, what measures are considered to be the highest? Minister normal to catch? This was discussed at a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee this morning and I have to say that this is absolutely striking news if the case is correct.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u24	Mr. President. First of all, about the currency vested in us, why don't we ask that we end the story? Should it surprise some to learn that counseling needs careful attention and that a person may need to make changes in his plans according to the best advice he or she can give? I'm surprised if people find it strange. It has nothing to do with human expectations, it's just about what works best in economic terms and which stays best from a legal point of view. For the comments of the Bank Office to the Council, I would like to say in general about such comments that it is not surprising that when it comes to suggesting that the institution has some comment on the subject, I feel that there is no new word for us at the council. Regarding the dealings of the Ministry and the Bank Office regarding the cohesion of the Satisfaction of Bolves to the northern savings fund, I can vouch for what has previously been said that there was much concern with me personally because of the way it was accomplished in preparing for these unifications. It was only natural for me to feel that this would be done to the bank office. This did not include any recommendation when the Ministry Department of Economics presented this information because if things had gone wrong, the harmony would simply not have been possible. Men have come quite far from their terms and contact with the people of the land if it is a crime and a violation of the law to communicate the views of the people of the land with our organizations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u25	A respectable president. It was the minister of finance itself who ably stated that the government had to adapt to the reality of the currency - stealing business. It will not be understood any different, respectable minister of finance, than that the ideas were unrealistic. As to the bank business I say, I'm glad that the Minister of finance describes his responsibility for the partnership, and it is evident that they are responsible for the minister of finance, and that it was the secretary of finance who has contacted the Ministry of Justice. Of course, this makes them far more serious. From far away from his elections, a respectable minister of finance says. But the highest. The secretary of finance, the Bank Office, was appointed not to involve politicians in the financial affairs, that ministers could not be called and complained to in some financial institution from some outstanding district, and then the minister called just and took part in how the government was organized. Therefore, this is a serious intervention, a respectable president, of the independence of the Bank Office, and must be taken into account here at the council how the Minister exercises his authority. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u26	Mr. President. This case is no other storm in a glass of water. It is quite remarkable that this public assembly should be used in order to make it seriously claim that what is going on in the institutions of the administration is so unplugged that if you dare to promote information from the areas involved here, you are breaking all regulations and laws. It's amazing. It's amazing. What was about it was that Bolungarvík was infuriated by the unity of the savings and disagreements in what way it had been established. A meeting was ahead to settle the matter. I felt that this institution, the Bank Management Board, was informed about the turmoil and that people would take into account before a meeting would be proclaimed whether they could settle the viewpoint so that we could reach the goals we all share in. I've never had ideas about any executives, I don't even know how that case ended, who ended up in control of a combined savings fund, I don't have it in my head. [[The president calls.]] However, making the shoes a part of an institution's work for independence is simply remarkable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u27	A respectable president. I'm gonna pick up the thread where it's at. paritaprevir Páll Valur Björnsson released him here in his dealings with the highest. Minister because the minister did not answer the questions. He accomplished this in his reply to a very realistic and important question to mention the last government six times, but now it's just so, a respectable president, that we have arrived at the latter part of the vote period so that we are at the highest rate. Minister must realize that he is not in a position of government opposition to the former government; he cannot teach the minister of Education to Jakobsdóttir all his maladies, but must take responsibility for his business. By the way, I'd like to say, a respectable president, that this quarter is the sum of the interpretation fund. The practice of interpreting daily life is yet to be fulfilled despite a minister's intention to solve the matter by setting the deaf's communication center and hearing impaired the rule of dividing the fund into four quarters of the year. That was the solution the minister had. Now, a student's party to a deaf blind girl will not be interpreted for her. A social conference in Violet, a group of people with integrated visual and hearing impairment, will not be interpreted for members of the community. A wedding feast will not be interpreted to a person who is a member of a family with the couple. There is no interpretation of tribal conventions. A meeting will not be interpreted. A bank interview where a person was going to borrow money from real estate will not be interpreted. A woman was going to have a child - in - law study, and she can't go to it because the fund is up. This is the situation. Interpretation in the school system doesn't solve this, a respectable president. And interpretations in health care will not help either. In 2010, we decided with the 63:0 in the new law on the situation of Icelandic Sign Language that the status of Icelandic Sign Language was equal to that of the Icelandic language. Here we're talking about a fund so small it can't even get two digits, i.e. We're talking about a small fund that's about minimum human rights for this group that's supposed to be as close to the rest of us with a native of Icelandic origin.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u28	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's inquiry. The reason I traced the story to the position the fund is based on was, of course, ever to increase the budget. This took place in two steps in the last of the funds and the last, in which the problem was faced when the pay of the interpreters was raised considerably without the lack of financial support. This meant that the funds needed to fulfill those assignments were greatly reduced, and we had to react. Now it is time to add a lot of money to the fact that the number of hours in which they are now being set is as great as they were at that time. The most proselytizing was the highest. Minister and government agent. They need to keep it up, you can't approach it by saying that this government somehow failed on a project they are facing, much rather than the fact that the project was being carried out in the way I have described and the financial contribution made to the fund. It is then absolutely true that when you look at the projects there, it is clear that we will continue and that we need to continue to add to this fund. It cannot be overlooked. But I have also repeated that this is not the only public service that is needed for this group in sign - language service. It's in many places like a whale. A senator correctly mentioned in his inquiry, including The education system and the health system. In other words, this fund that is different in everyday life is the same as it used to be after the increase in funds received from the interpreters'salary, is in the same range as it was in the number of hours available to render the ministry. It's quite clear, and I restate that this project is not finished, we will continue to improve this service, it's in place, a respectable president. But there's the law of the law. The funds provided for this fund are available. What was then being done was an attempt to get him, not completely emptied, but to be set up for the year's recovery. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u29	A respectable president. I'd like to encourage the highest. Minister to resolve this matter. The first step could be to allow a Community Center to open up right now between quarters so that they can continue to use the funds I was reading earlier and that the Ministry is working on a lasting solution with a communication center until the fall. So we're talking about making use of the contribution of the current year's funds. We have to admit, and we have to face the fact that by the 2010 law we were accepting sign language as the native language of the deaf, as the native language of this group. That's a change. A mother's business must have a position, and it must be followed by some kind of will. The point must be to crystallize also in money, not with reference to the fact that sign language in other parts of the community is because the change is that we have said it individually by pressing the green button here in the conference that we want to sign to be the language of this group and then we must show it in action, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u30	A respectable president. This is exactly the case with us when we decided by the laws of this sign language in 2010. Then, when they say we have to do it by means of financial contributions, I just want less. In 2011, 2012, and 2013, how did a senator appear to be in the government, and with what result? A decision was then made to increase the pay of the interpreters and the registration without leaving the money. [[The currency file.]] [[Up front.]] People may feel uncomfortable that this story has been torn up, but they have to be subject to it. [[Up front.]] On the other hand, what we have done now and what this government... [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] What the government, a respected president, has done is a huge addition to funding for the fund, so it is now at least in the same range as the number of hours provided to carry out its role, as it was after the expansion of the register. Then we can what? A senator would agree, although this has been the case in the last administration of this category, that it is probably a matter and necessary, since we in the government have increased the contributions to the fund, that the work will be continued. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. The funds provided were determined by the General Assembly during the last budget. [[The president calls.]] It's the amount of money that's playing. They need to try to ensure that they are making the most of all year - long uses. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u31	It's spoken of tens of billions of dollars...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u32	V.E.G. President. I recommend a synopsis of the transport protocols for 2015◯2018. First, I'd like to apologize for the lateness of the transport program. There are various reasons why I'm not going to be here. Second, I'd like to mention that I hope that, despite the fact that time is indeed a crisis, the plan will still get a discussion on a Senate committee as best it can be under the circumstances of the earth. I thought it necessary, though it was so late, to present it to the council at this assembly rather than to store it until the fall, which, of course, had been possible, but I felt it was important that the proposal at least appeared to members of the council and after the incident had some discussion. I highlight at the beginning of the discussion, and also this is not changing the situation in which this particular plan is currently, that two recent years have not been established. There is, in effect, a problem with transport authorities in the country. According to law No. 33/2008, for a transport plan, shall be submitted by the secretary of the Home Minister to the Council for a resolution every four years for a policy policy-making strategy and aim for all articles of transportation for the next 12 years. A more efficient transport plan will be in accordance with 2011◯22022. In addition, a more precise four-year work programme should be submitted that will be reviewed every two years. Therefore, the transport programme presented here is reevaluated with a follow-up programme for a second period of 12 years of transport, the continuation of the transport programme in 2011◯2014. The proposal also covers the first period of a new policy-making program to the age of 12 that is currently under way and will take up the year 2015-226. That plan will be ready for contributions in the fall. The transport programme presented here is carried out by a secretary's transport strategy and based on priorities for the Roadmaker, Istavia and Grouping Agency over the period on the basis of budget 2015. The proposal is in line with the policy of transport programme 2011-022, government policies and the emphasis of the minister and other public plans. A transport programme of 20153/42018 accounts for a total of 112 billion U.S. will be made available for transport during the period, with annual transport contributions expected to increase by 3% annually in 2016, 2017 and 2018, according to economic forecasts. In recent years, transport has been cut down significantly on the most recent and growing extent of maintenance, but the emphasis has been on maintaining good service. At a government meeting this week, it was decided to provide additional 1,800 million. K. to focus on major road projects, of which 500 million will be. K. largely improved maintenance of the largest road in the capital area and in accordance with the state of Vega's assessment, is 1,300 million. K. that you may be helped in the highway of Kappos, on the road of the snow, on Uxabal, and on the valley of Calda, all of which are important to travel. True, there are tasks that wish to begin during the period that will take place, but the suggestion rests primarily on the realistic and preliminative development of financial limitations. The task plan is divided into four chapters. The first three chapters provide an overview of the main transport projects and the proposed income and expenditures of the year's proposal. Section 4 explains the general transport projects, assessments and research and development projects, which form a professional basis for the review of transport policies. The road is taking a construction side to Iceland's roads and ports as a board for administration and monitoring. So there are two financing numbers, no. 06-651 and 06-662, docks and roads. So, besides road construction, maintenance, and service to the road system in cooperation with owners, new projects, maintenance and management rejection, knowledge, and marine protection parks. The overall donation to road and ports is over 101 billion, with a flow of about 95 billion. to the road, but more than that, there are 1,800 million that the government has decided to provide in addition to road transport. Thus, a total of less than 103 billion are at stake. The spending of road plans is divided into six main points; management, general transport, services, maintenance and stock costs as well as rejection. Each year about 900 billion will run. K. to public transport in the capital area, a total of 3.5 billion. Strengthens the transport and transportation of the country to a total of 6.3 billion. Finally, there are Kingdom strengths for flights within the country by about 1.1 billion p.m. A number of changes will be taken from your previous schedule. The largest part of transport budget runs, as in the previous road, most of which come from markets of income totals of 74 billion, but direct donations from the state's budget are over 21 billion. Clearly, all involved in transport decision making need to be aware of the great difference between government income and cost of services, maintenance, and activities that are interested. Because of adverse weather conditions and growing service budgets over the past few years, major reductions have been raised in the winter service of Vega, but the plan aims to add funds for that service from the past. The defined target of implementation for the road system is to build a ground - to - ground foot road with a full carrier resistance and a complex cut, a broad road, and separate road policies, to wipe out single bridges in the multijords, and to bury tunnels in accordance with a geo-channel plan. At that time, adequate maintenance must be guaranteed, not to lose the value of roads, bridges, funerals, and other monuments. $24 billion is expected. in maintenance and less than 38 billion dollars. the implementation of the stock road, of which about 14 billion can be found. To geographs. The largest development in the period is the development of Northland tunnels that will be opened during the period, the discovery of the Hellish Sea and between the Holragens and the Selephos, the Austranes Way, the Westfjordive Road of Eiði in the Gulf of Finland, and the Bay of Befjords at the Beach Coast, the Smokes Way south of Hafnarfjörður Road, a round road around the Hornland, part of the Coastway, a round road at the Bay of Berafland, as well as the count of activity. This year's projects are being added to Uxabourn and ties to the Þingalund Valley, as well as to the Continental Ways and parts of Defeiss Road because of the further development of the government. It is suggested that the construction of an animal tunnel begin in 2017. Studies for Fjordy honors will continue. The funding for the docks, along with road and land-linking in the industrial region of Boka of Húsavík, is calculated as a project, which is actually saved into a transport program, although its custody is at the hands of the Ministry of Employment. It should also be noted that the waterway is now back in schedule, but it is considered that the funding of this procedure is being carried out by privates. The importance of this development for the transport system of the capital area must be noted and is willing to continue the process. In the capital area, traffic flows are to be improved by smaller tasks designed to eliminate bottlenecks, improve the priority of public transport with more special transport, and increase traffic safety, especially for the construction of road sites. The last strategy was set for sustainable transport and for the development of road transport options, including urban areas. by contributions for public transport, walking and cycle path. In force, there is a contract between state and rural society of the capital area, which was signed in May 2012. The project is for ten years, and it is the goal of it, among other things, to double the share of public transportation on all travel in the capital area during the contract period. There are also the reductions in domestic and community transport costs and traffic accidents and other factors. The number of people making good use of other methods of transportation has increased significantly, as did road transport surveys during the last summer, which travel about a quarter of the population of the capital area on bicycle, on foot, or on the bus, which is a major success. It will continue to be provided for the implementation of bicycle and footpaths, hiking, and subpassing to further the use of eco-friendly travel. Similar concentrations to public transport are then to be expected in the capital area on the basis of the agreement in force. The activities of the road industry aim to keep the road system under adequate control and to ensure safe and easy traffic. The demand for services on the road system has continued to increase, and this will continue, especially with increasing numbers of foreign tourists. This team accounts for some 16 billion. The information system of Vega is exemplary, and all the people benefit from being able to explore the weather and get on the roads electronically and into a powerful information system. The importance of research is not to be overlooked, but about 600 million. K. research is being done during the period when many are making good money in innovations and uses, as well as which results often provide better support for policy development and decision making. The aim of the Clearing Programme is to ensure the infrastructure of marine roads and transport. Coastal ports, coastal waters, and shipping projects have now moved to Vega's construction site. Thus, there will be about 6.4 billion uses for shipping during the period, of which 4.1 billion are to seafront, 1.2 billion are being spent at sea stations, and 577 million will be used for knowledge and guidance systems. In addition, research and development funds are being spent. At seafronts, 435 million are spent. K. Other projects, including the safety and safety of seafarers, including the Marine Accident Prevention School, have now moved to a Grouping Room. The largest budget for this part of the strategy is the once-in-a-continent land island. A total of 1.3 billion will be expected to be done at the docks during the period, including to investigate and implements designed to permanently reduce sand exposure, annual deepening and healing at the dock site. It should then be noted that the design of a new Western island is now completed and that the project is ready for tenders. Finally, there will be considerable construction projects at Húsavík, which will be devoted to building on Back, with 471 million. With the administrative changes in transport, the maintenance and management of the marine environment moved as well as the control station on the road to Vega, which continues to be run in cooperation with the National Guard and Emergency Line. The flying part of a transport program is about the focus and activities and projects that now take place between Istavia and the Association, the management and security and the monitoring of flights and airports. Istavia hf. runs airports and the U.S. flying history system. A total of 8 billion dollars for projects carried out by the company on a service contract during the period. In recent years the government's budget has been cut down, and aviation service has been cut down. The annual maintenance and implementation budget is 5,500,600 million. K. To the national system. In order to meet the group lack of maintenance and construction, up to 1,000 million are needed. K. Each year for the next few years. However, this is not enough for larger projects, such as airports in Akureyri and Egls. A review of various aspects of national flight and flight systems and the presence of the government in the state - of - the - state personnel of the State Department, which will form the basis for a transport policy programme for 2015-226. The new policy transport programme for 2015-226 is now being developed. In order to ensure a careful review of the work programme 2011-2022, the programme agreed to conduct the chosen research and development projects during the first period of the programme that would ensure the best basis for preparing the next transport programme, 2015-226. The Transport Centres and their partners contribute to work and funding in research, assessment and development policy projects in accordance with their responsibilities on each of their more comprehensive activities. A respectable president. There is a very short period of time here to discuss the whole transport plan, just 15 minutes. So all I can do is cut back on all the big things. However, there is no need to question the fact that good transport is one of the most important sources of infrastructure in each country. Iceland and I have built our transportation system well up. However, following the collapse of the economy, a great deal had to be drawn together, such as there and elsewhere. Now, however, sleeves have to be boarded again. We need to take a close look at the maintenance and construction of the system on the next loss, and it was a pleasure to see that there was a way to contribute more money to the road project during this year's trip. I realize that many people would have liked more, for there is a greater need. However, let us consider that the extra wealth will be useful, including the amount of money. in my most important work. Finally, I'd like to thank all the members of this program who have finished with me for at least a while. I hope for fertile and beneficial exchanges in conversation with the members of the council, as this is one of the most urgent issues in building structures in the country below.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u33	V.E.G. President. In a short answer, there is not much that can be done, but that's why I'm going to take on one particular project, it's about the revenue to make roads. Over the past few years, currency markets have not increased to a level of prices that has detracted much of the city's income stocks. These data show that if we had earned our income up to the level of prices, we would be using $23 billion. Instead of 16, it's about 7 billion bucks. because the markets of income stocks have not increased. In other words, when the government fund has risen e.g. fuel costs and oil expenditures have only been raised the share that flows directly into government funds, not to the roadtype. A respectable president. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. The minister of its policy and the government is in this respect, or should this really continue, I'm afraid, is dead so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u34	V.E.G. President. It is of concern how dwindling financial contributions to the road making are based on the exchanges that take place. A senator mentions. I can say what. A senator for this reason that I have decided to start work on this particular point. It's not going to be done by the State Department on its own. It's necessary to cooperate with the budget, of course the Generals number one, two and three, and the Ministry of finance. I think it's very important to have these factors covered thoroughly. I know that in early times, people have had some ideas that I have on my level and have been going over. I have not personally made a definitive assessment of them, but it is quite clear that there are some ideas already in the ministry's data that could be of value to the transport system's funding for the future. I think that as soon as we look at all the money available in the transport system, we must look for further ways to finance it than we see right now. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u35	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the answer, but I also want to state that I think this is one of the most important projects in Iceland's political groups have to agree on. In my second answer, I'd like to ask what turns to the same, the income stocks of the Road Building, both for construction, for business, and for all that this good organization operates, as they are for environmentally friendly cars. Everyone has the highest priority in the country, saves oil and gas imports, but has less road supply to build and maintain the road. for environmentally friendly cars. To this day, an environmentally friendly car, let's just say a power car that uses only electricity, no fuel, does not put a dollar in a road reserve to take care of the road system at the same time as everyone who takes gasoline and oil contributes a lot to the market income. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers into its policy and the government and what to do with the Icelanders, whether it needs to be coordinated so that there is no discrimination, depending on the energy source. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I reiterate what I'm saying: there's an increase in the number of environmentally friendly cars, but we need to consider these factors along the way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u36	A respectable president. I'd like to express my opinion that I think Iceland and I should look for ways to make sure that the environmentally friendly cars driving around the streets do so on the basis of our own energy supply, which is, of course, electricity, so we don't move in any other environmental energy to do that. I think it's the first thing. Then, of course, it is fundamental that with this growth there will be a degree of discrimination on the part of the individual, a failure is needed. That's exactly what I'd like to look at and say in my previous answer, this whole case needs to be viewed whole. I can't say that I've invented a policy in that matter, but it's clear that for a long time it won't be possible to make time pass without something being done. Therefore, in view of the long - term policy of transportation, I feel strongly that it does not forget the vital point that all of this needs to be financed and money does not grow on trees.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u37	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Ministerial review of transport plans for the next four years. There's two things I'd like to pick up with a minister. On the one hand, I'd like to rejoice that this is a donation, in accordance with the agreement between the local Union in the capital area for the construction and operation of public relations with the state. There are an estimated 896 million. K. Each year until 2018. Of course, the meeting amounted to about a billion people, but I am very glad that this contribution is there. Then there's a waterway that's not planned for financial reasons, so we're talking about the possibility of a private job. I thought it would be okay to see that the Sunway wasn't on the move. I thought the rural areas in the capital area were to be seen as building up a network of light trains and motor vehicles, which is less expensive than the Bayway. [[The president calls.]] I'm asking if a minister had a conversation with the locals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u38	A respectable president. The construction of transport workers, either in the capital area or in the country, takes place in cooperation between state and rural society. The proposed policy on the part of rural society also needs to be reflected in some way in the will that the State has for the development of transport workers. It's headed like a dog. A senator points to the area of the capital and has not been formally discussed in the national transport sector. I'd like to say as my firm opinion that as soon as people want to improve their ability to travel differently, they can't forget that there are still a considerable number of people here who need access to cars. And in the capital area, there is a considerable need for investment in the founding system. It has been the national opinion of the government that Daffi is being carried out, which is of great importance in this regard. [[The president calls.]] There is no way to adjust it to be either a bicycle or a train or just nothing. [[The president calls.]] There's gotta be some way this could go together. There has been no decision on the part of a government to go to the subway system so far, such a decision has not been made. You just have to look at the conditions in the capital area now, and that's how it's going to have to work here. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u39	V.E.G. President. I'm a little surprised at this answer. Minister, because the DZI was out of control because the rural areas wanted to increase their focus on reducing transport levels within the capital area and thereby reducing the footways from the capital area. In the capital area, for example, there is a single feeling among rural society to build a network of gentle trains and fast cars, and in that town, I believe that people are ready to look to one another. It is true that this organization does not finally exist, but I think it is important and I would like to ask a minister: Have any conversations been done on its part with the local communities in the capital area? And is it ready to see if it would be a better option, especially when we consider that one of the biggest issues in politics must be the threat of climate change? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u40	A respectable president. I've had a nice conversation with the mayor of Reykjavík about several aspects of rural transportation, of course. There has been no formality, and there is no conclusion yet to this regional structure. That work will run its course when it is at hand. Clearly, the structure of the transport system in the capital area will, of course, be a part of the responsibility of the State. It must be that way that the State also brings its views into the picture. It must be that way. If we are to reach some conclusion, both sides must bring their views to the table, which cannot be, so that if the government thinks other interests are important, they should accept only what they want. This must work together. I'm not worried that it will work out well. It's just that it's not yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u41	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the state before her history in this matter. We are now seeing to it that all practical men are up to date. Economic growth is growing, and the income of a government fund is growing in the same way, which is positive. This group of paintings has been down the drains since collapse. There have been other priorities, as in our time the government, the welfare, the interests of the elderly, and the less fortunate, who are very good. I've pointed out that maintenance in the road system has been lacking. I particularly thank you for spending 500 million for special maintenance projects, which I think are very good. Other than that, I just want to say that we could probably do better. We will gain the matter into a transport committee, where we will examine the other and these benefits. [[The president calls.]] It would be nice to have a reaction from the Minister of the Interior, whether she agrees that this is a positive, big, big step. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Of course, in the coming years, we will try to do better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u42	V.E.G. President. I want to state that it is very important that we take on special maintenance projects in the near future as we look to a new development. This year we assume that according to the plan, this will go well with the sixth billion, as it is put on a maintenance project. Then we add a little bit, especially now. I think it's a very important assignment. This is true not only of the country's most densely populated facilities but also around the country. I think it's going to be a lot of money. It's good money, very well spent, so I think it's good. This does not change, however, because there is an enormous amount of work to be done, a variety of smaller projects too, which I'm interested in putting more emphasis on, and in certain respects appear now but may appear better, and hopefully it can happen later that we can do these small projects here and in the land that is so important to smaller rural areas and also many projects at tourist destinations that are also under transport. [[The president calls.]] It would be wishful if, in time, we could place more money on such things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u43	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of state for a good answer. I was happy to hear that she mentioned many smaller assignments throughout the country. There are various roads, roads, roads, and roads that need maintenance and are already in time. Hopefully, we will see more of that material in the process. She mentioned the growth of a tourist service that has become our largest source of income. I'm especially glad that this is the time to consider their factors. I know a Kappus Road that's been on for a long time, but I'm afraid it's been postponed because there's been a lack of money. This generates a very important ring connection in the northeastern region, perfecting the magnificent diamond ring that will make the movement of tourists more likely to increase in this area. Unfortunately, the increase has not been sufficient in audiolets and Åsfolds. [[The president calls.]] I want to celebrate this especially. It would be good to receive more response from the Minister of the Interior Minister on this precise link to the important industry in the tourism industry. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u44	V.E.G. President. It's been a drive-by and they've been sticking around with him for a very long time. It's an extremely expensive project. Perhaps that is why we have had to postpone him repeatedly. I hope that those who have looked at him will be glad that we are still pushing him during this period. Then it is my opinion that access is important to improve the number one tourist destination. I think that a better bioavailability for the Þingvall, with the suggestions that exist here, will be of utmost importance. Together, long - awaited projects have often had to be replaced and on the way to meeting the potential growth in the industry, tourism, and, especially, security, since many of these roads are dangerous. They needed to meet that, too. We must not forget security when we consider how to build up the transport system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u45	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for enforcing this important document, which is now being discussed by the Allied Parliament. I must declare some of my disappointments with the share that the capital area is intended for in this program and that, in fact, all I can see is that the capital itself is not intended for a few projects. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if it is due to the special authority's desire to submit to it, as shown in the answers, it is some special policy of the city's government today to limit road transport. I have felt that it was at the expense of traffic safety. That's why I want to ask the highest. Whether the amount of money here intended for the capital, which are exactly none, should be in full agreement with the local authorities. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u46	A respectable president. You're right about what you're doing. A senator's financial contributions to the capital area are cheap, and I myself have declared that they are too demeaning and that I have also made the meetings I've had with rural areas in the capital area that need to be done much better. The biggest project in this field today is Eaglenes Road. That's right, he's not in the capital city of Reykjavík. It must be noted, however, that in terms of a agreement between state and rural society in the capital area signed during the last terms that directly assumed that there should be nothing to be carried out in the capital area. That agreement will be revised in 2016. But I don't think that this is the way people are going to set up, and I don't agree with the methodology, that it should be either just a car ride or just a bicycle ride, if I put the extremes ahead, a respectable president, if I allow myself to give an extreme speech. It can never work. There is a need for extensive maintenance in the capital area. In part, we look to this additional dagger to meet it, which is why it was specifically stated that it should be viewed in its capital area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I can accept that with what. A senator and has expressed it many times on his own, and also when I was in a position of government, the need to do much better when it comes to transportation in the capital area. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u47	A respectable president. I appreciate that answer. You see, I remember as much as the government had at its time massed the money at a major accident corner at the Grand Way and the mall highway in Reykjavík, and it's been refused. The traffic pool that is there has now not improved over the years. But, Mr. Honorable President, I'm not now such a hardened amateur of the ideal thing I am representing for the fact that I'm not interested in other projects in other terms, so I'd like to be glad to know that there is a road cut between the Whos and Selephos in this transport program. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister for the project where so - called 2+1 roads are expected, which I have some doubts about. I thought that from there on another level it was going on these projects, there should be a clear double road. Besides, I have to declare some disappointments as to how late these projects should be. [[The president calls.]] I can't see any better than it'll be after a few years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u48	A respectable president. I have to agree now. This is a project that is urgent, and it is also of great importance to all the inhabitants of this country. That's right, it's assumed 2+1 road. This is always a matter of how we should proceed with policy development. I believe in certain locations at least it is reasonable to look more than 2+2, which should be kept in mind that this road is designed as 2+2 ways. So if it is now built as 2+1, then the design is easy to convert to 2+2. I think that must be a wise course for us, at least. In less recent times, if we cannot afford to go directly to 2+2, we take the design at least so that we have some space when we look further into the past - sometimes which we Icelanders have a little difficulty doing - but that we think to ourselves: Yes, it is likely that after years we will need to make the road worse to 2+2. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u49	V.E.G. President. For one thing, I'd like to thank the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister of Ólöf Nordal for completing this Parliamentary resolution in a four-year transport program by 2015-2018. She'll be late, there's not many days left. I can say this in my own part that I wondered if a longer discussion period should be conducted during the previous year. but I canceled it because I think it's very important to get to the committee; we'll be left behind, but this plan needs to be discussed very well. I hadn't quite prepared for having our first talk on behalf of our peers, that was a challenge. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir to do. She had to go to a funeral south of Hafnarfjörður, and that's why I'm jumping in here. Katrín Júlíusdóttir is our representative on the environment and transport committee that this plan is up to. In the ten minutes I am ordered to go over this in general, I will use my second period, as the senators should do, to discuss matters in my own district, which I know best. I have to say, as it is, this council proposal is most disappointing to me because of its indiscretion, its demeaningness. Now 1,800 million people are proud of it and should be grateful for it, but I point to the fact that it is 1,800 million in addition to almost nothing this year. The situation at the beginning of this year was that there were some 570 million, it appeared, to a new development on the road, if we only take that part. In budgets 300 million were taken over. There were 270 million left, and this amount was hardly enough to meet unexpected events, benefits, and so forth. Let us also keep in mind that the work being done is a project decided in recent times by the government. So I find it very strange, so I don't use another word, when two members of the Foreign Party, huh? The members of Vigdís Hauksdóttir and Höskuldur Þórhallsson, speak of all this being neglected from collapse. Hello, hello! Do you realize that during the last term, Iceland's record was introduced into road construction in Iceland? Now this top-of-the-art board is beating up a new Iceland record in doing nothing, pretty much nothing. You should be grateful for that. The Minister of the Interior government has achieved the success of the financial minister to get the additional 1,800 million. I would have even said, if they hadn't come along, that there was no need for a new Senate resolution with a transport plan because it could have been just about what's going on, to pay the price, because nothing was coming back. There were plans for a number of projects that were to be started on the last schedule, such as those carried out on Eagle Road, Coastal Road, Jackálá, Gothras Way, Burfjord, and so on, there were no chances of starting. Now we see how this 1,300 million for the newty is divided, and that is, in fact, a master over each work. They're trying to get something going. I can take Kappus Road for example. They, of the last Minister of the Interior, took money that was to be carried out and put in the maintenance of a dirt road with the assurance that money would be added to the maintenance of malaraching roads. This is done only to a small extent. That's a very small amount placed in Kappos Road. A respectable president. When was the Haute road taken from the ring to the falls? Wasn't that in the last administration of the last term? What has been done since then? The broken promise of the former Minister of State and the additional 32,25 miles [25,25 km] to an invitation. A respectable president. I'm out of line with what I said earlier, that I was going to discuss, not terms, but the general plan. What I want to say and reiterate what I said earlier in a short answer to the highest. Minister: It is our task here at the General Assembly, all classes, to decide - that is why I encourage the Minister of the Interior to put in motion non - political work in which we try to reach conclusions that are acceptable to all - how we will increase money for road construction and maintenance and service. There is an increased need for maintenance, it has submerged while we were on the move. Winter service has increased greatly and becomes more expensive, more demand. A changed weather will require extra attention. The information services that are great at the road model on the road site cost a lot of money. But we need to figure out how we're going to make the markets of the road industry depend on this cost. As I said before, 7 billion dollars, no less, per year. If the market of income stocks had taken up raises according to prices, we would have 7 billion more for road construction. Well, this has happened during the last few terms. This is not happening right now, so happened during the last term. This is what we need to answer, and in addition to what was in my second answer, how we're going to let the environmentally friendly cars, which we have to grow very much, and we're going to contribute to the surrender of various fees, put something into this fund. That is also a question that all political groups in Iceland are facing to answer. The contribution to the road generation cannot be made more and more, and it is so ashamed to go to the road model for not maintaining or going into construction, whether in some ideal country or here in the capital area. It just doesn't make sense. As I told you before, Iceland record was hit in the last term, there's never been anything else like it was ever done before. Just to review this plan as it is, and, as I say in ten minutes, you can't get over except the largest factor in this road and road construction, there are 5.8 billion spent for maintenance. In fact, the entire road system that the road does is amazing what you can do for the little money. Then there's always the same question with a hook and everything we're putting too little money into. I don't have a direct question to a minister that she might answer in her final speech, but I ask, for example, in a strength to the domestic flight. Is there a plan to resurgence the Roman Empire, and when will that be done? Only in the flight plan, of course, she's coming in here too. Almost that is not the case, so it is small, but 2 billion are in the airport, of which about 1.5 billion are in the service contract with Istavia, and the maintenance and regular renewal of equipment is only 370 million and the total stock cost is 547 million. My question to the highest. The minister is this: Isn't it 500 million that we took advantage of Istavia? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] It was not 500 million who were taken into the state's budget, and it was put in charge of what to use, the General's message of approval. Is it not absolutely certain that these 500 million dollars paid from the state's budget went on to expand their airkeeping projects? I hope that it has not been that at the Ministry of Economics they have cut down because the General took 500 million into the interest of Istavia. [[Up front.]] The answer is highest. Minister after. I certainly hope not, must have the evidence that was originally in order to go through it. This is the first input for this transport programme to be submitted by law No. 33/2008. Of course, the long - term schedule may not be included, but it will arrive in the autumn, but it is probably a big part of the challenge of ordering these things down. A respectable president. Because at least one member of the board has been talking about a considerable increase in the years to come - people are always talking about what they're going to do at the end of the season - so on the front page that from 2015◯2016 there will be only about 2 billion more. It's no addition, it's no addition, there's no big effort ahead of us. [[The president calls.]] There is little to do now, but there is nothing very much in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u50	V.E.G. President. First, I want to thank the senator for his clear speech and clear knowledge of these matters. In my speech, he got into electric cars, cars that run behind the electricity, I also have a big hobby, and he caught the problem we're facing if we're going to try to run on the electricity fleet, i.e. how we are going to finance our road system with environmentally good vehicles. I'd like to ask you what. In this, how he envisions it, if he has thought of a solution in these matters, whether he will see an increased charge on certain chapters, or something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u51	V.E.G. President. In response to that question as a question. A senator lays for me on electric cars, which I did a small part in my previous talk, and I have to reiterate what I said, that's the job of all the political parties in Iceland to sit down and figure out a solution. But, hey. A senator asks me which way I can see. Yes, there are two ways. I've always been the most impressed of it, and it started working on a smaller transport minister to pick up a so-called chest or let's say GPS in every vehicle in Iceland. Then it can be arranged to park cars in parking lots or drive through a tunnel to pay for it. It would also remove all the depositors we would set up on roads or tunnels if we went onto private projects that will be paid by those who pass along, as it were in a Válathe tunnel, which is the latest example. So I see the process developing, and it's certainly sad that for four years, nothing has been done about it. Worse yet, work was shut down. Although the Dutch were in the longest position to adopt this technology, they delayed it for a few years. I don't know how that situation is right now, but we had young Icelandic intellectuals who were very far off trying to make some of the best and best machines in the world to do this. Drottinn Christ, if we took this up in an island, an island like us, it would actually be an example of how it would be best to clear the course and develop the system. So this is the answer. But because there is something further involved in the reality of this, the other is that people must reach their conclusions and ask only short and soft questions: How should electric cars pay for the use of roads in line with those who use another fuel? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u52	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller for his answer. I think we're on a similar level here, I say for me that I think we should stay away from the centers, at least in the image we see at the Halfground tunnel where people have to stop by the related traffic charms. I think it's a pretty good idea. For example, a senator says that he will be paid over a mile [6 km], saying that those who drive more often will break the roads. Now, in engineering, I learned that trucks weighing up to 40 tons will break the roads in excess of 200 pounds [200 kg]. people's cars. I want to go inside. A senator who has his opinion on this whether we have too little money on the truck or on the heavy transport. Otherwise, I don't think there's much difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u53	V.E.G. President. To continue with the interesting information that the young senator asks me about, i.e. The future of how we raise the money for road construction, I reiterate what I said the GPS chips or what we want to call it is definitely the future. Someone may ask them about the protection, but for example, in the large business club outside Europe, the European Union. True, a senator may not fully agree on how good it is, has come very far to meet the conditions set by personal protection in such a way that information will not be attributable or not abused. It's gone very far. So, in my opinion, it's kind of a problem going to be over. For example, with this future technology, we might pick up solutions that would save large sums of money on road projects. Consider just an example of the capital area. There are several ways during the most busy hours in the morning and in the evenings that are completely crowded and the traffic is slow. With this technology, it can be said that there are other ways, perhaps more miles, than with a much lower budget in rush time. It's actually just inserted into the computer and into the program, so those who want to go somewhere else but everyone wants to go, and then you can charge a much lower price to meet the length of the road in miles. There's one way. Hv. Senator's asking about the trucks. Yes, it could be done in this system. And because of what? In fact, a senator on the Þingvall Committee would be able to install a currency as a means of funding projects on the National Park, which could even come into the same thing, and print it out just so that those cars were there during this month, and the Talent Committee should make a living because of the construction of cars at that site. There you go. It's for business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u54	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for his speech. Still, there are a few things I wanted to have been a little different. For example, I would have wanted the senator to rejoice that there is now a way to put money on a project that could not be put on during the last term. I would have liked to hear it too. The senator thank you for the solidarity that came to form through the Vadalah tunnel when his party split, the senators of the House chose them in the past. Then I'd like to come into Iceland only. It's not what. A senator mixed up? Isn't it true that this is Iceland record in 2008, 2009, when it was taken to Bolungarvík and Héindir tunnels? You can ask yourself, " Was my timing correct in the recent expansion, even though I am very supportive of both projects? ' This may have been a small amount of oil on the fire and the total government spending, far beyond what was normal at the time. But it wasn't during the last term, it was 2007◯2009. What is remarkable is that all or at least many of the projects that were then carried out, and indeed, during the last term, were fixed in the year 2003◯2007. I wonder when the last government is talking about Iceland record... whether there's no Iceland record in dressed with stolen feathers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u55	V.E.G. President. I'm glad to hear it. paritaprevir Þórhallsson's daughter would have liked to have my speech different. I'm very pleased with that. Hv. A senator went by and spoke of a solidarity of Vella-hallholes. It was fine, but it was not unusual for groups to split up their plans for the future. We were about to take a new course of personal action, as is done in loans, and expenses should pay for it. It may well be that the advance party was all behind it. In fact, I did not understand until a few years later when a certain man entered the Northeast District, which is another arm. If I recall, there were two who supported that project was not much for the independents. As a result, transport is a long - term process, and projects can take three, four, five years, such as a tunnel, with a question of when they go in. But it is always the project of the government that is about to ensure financial contributions for the projects. That's exactly what they're doing here right now. Many of the projects involved in the transport program were adopted in the last terms of transport, and the government groups do not guarantee money now, therefore, very little will be done. This is fundamental. What was done during the last terms was to ensure large sums of money on all the projects that were done and certainly cost many, such as a tunnel, at a cost of 1,500 million, etc. However, it was the task of that government to strengthen wood, which was, of course, part of a stability covenant made by the then government of the labour market party, namely. to initiate public activity in the post-survival loss of activity.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u56	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I wanted to point out that I thought the senator could be a little more positive, because what's going on? We're off to a group of paintings, and I pointed out that maybe it didn't work out just as well as the senator wanted to be put in his speech. I don't know any better than he kind of walked around with a head bag in his district, I'm saying "Nurfjörður tunnels," and some other major civilian meetings because it didn't work out. But, of course, we succeeded. We have done very well in transportation. [[Up front.]] I encourage the senator to answer me here, it's an answer instead of calling in. What I would first like to encourage the senator to do is to look to the good cooperation that was achieved here in the last period of many urgent matters, because it is often not the government, as happened in the government of each other. A senator in his last term, who continues to act. For example, that was not much of a lot for a Vádala-hall tunnel. They needed help from the government, and there we were doing fine. I hope so. A senator comes with us, works hard. We agree on a lot of things. We'll agree to find more money, and I hope we don't have to. A senator - I may have misunderstood him, but I felt that he was rather negative when I said that we might see a country next year. Economics show that there should be more money in the treasure. If there is more money in the treasure of the Kingdom, important transportation projects can be done and, for example, continue with various good topics in our ideals. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u57	V.E.G. President. I think at the council, most of the cases have agreed on and should be done. There is a difference, however, between postponing or striking the board. Hv. A senator made a mention of the fine Norwegian tunnels, and performed them, and I thank him very much for bringing it up. At what time did they start? True, a schedule was probably delayed two and a half years after the first transport program was agreed on by the 2007, which was because of the collapse; there was nothing else. But it was during that difficult period, despite the State's financial map, to implement them, which makes the project a full - time. Let me just take a little smaller. A senator reports that on the first budget bill of the current government, there was something about it that had, unfortunately, made a deal about the North Sea tunnel and therefore it cannot be delayed. V.E.G. President. What did the message from the current government class include? [[Up front.]] They included that in the first financial bill the government made, they were thinking about cutting them down, but it couldn't be done. [[No, no, no, no...]] V.E.G. President. I'm quoting the text in a budget bill so that it doesn't need to be debated. Happily, though, it was possible to sign at the right time, so the present government could not cut them down. I can just say that and accept that this, of course, was what we were going to do, to sign before the cutting knife took off, which, as I say, we disagree on this process. I agree with many aspects of it, but I disagree with how little there is to add. In 2017/018, for example, the contribution of the State Fund is to decrease by 1 billion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u58	A respectable president. I gave my speech yesterday on the fact that the transport program is coming here at a very difficult time in relation to the Council's Work Programme, on the last day of the work programme, a four-year transport program will be provided for the conference and will enter the environment and transport committee and in material treatment. Of course, that is unacceptable. I don't have to repeat my speech about it from yesterday, but I have to say that this procedure brings me to think about the procedure we have in this case, i.e. to address here on a more subtle theme of the country's major transport projects in which members of different terms and terms come and - I don't mean to argue, but I may be at odds with the capital and importance of projects. The fact is, all of us are in the same boat in these areas, and transport is a benefit to all the inhabitants of the country. The whole country has a positive view of transportation. It does not just have regional positive effects, it has a good effect on the whole community. It is worthwhile when it comes to creating employment, increasing the quality of living conditions, so we need to approach the whole transport sector. I have often reviewed both here and elsewhere a fine example of the strange, practical arrangements that can occur when we are with elected council members struggling to finance. Only about two miles [two km] from the Landing Islands that opened 2010 is a well - prepared airport that was opened in 2006 and is not used today, although, of course, it is used in some way, and the fine airport that is taught by Backka. What I'm saying is that there is a lack of perspective and long-term looking. I have often wondered if it was not natural for us to have another arrangement on this matter, and it would only be in the hands of members of Congress to draw financial support to specific areas and simply to reduce this role of the council to operate on specific projects. I think that harmonization, political and political favors, and then the focus of the population can create a very unhealthy priorities, since people see, not the bigger picture, but very narrowly the interests of certain areas or rural communities. I think there is every reason to look to another arrangement, especially in view of the fact that the council repeatedly receives a transport program without having enough time or basis for reviewing its contents. One fine example that I would like to mention from the end of the last terms, which is actually in this paper, is the hospice of Bakka at Húsavík, where it is expected to be adopted at the council to attack indivities and transport and infrastructure, including a geograph that would cost 1.8 billion. What do we see on this paper here? It's $3.1 billion. It's going to cost over 1,200 million, and it's not even starting to happen. Now I'm a politician who's been involved in a decision-making decision of e.g. It's a highway that's clear to be going beyond a budget. It will cost more than the target, but it is the cost at the start of the project. Here we are talking about an increase of over a billion before the project begins. In fact, it was held here when that matter came to my vote. Guðmundur The Steingrímsson, who gave too short time to look into the matter, did not calm down for enough data to make an informed decision, therefore, we were embarrassed. What have we discovered? There wasn't enough evidence to make a decision, they didn't work out. There are a few things I don't want much more to do in a positive, supportive process. But it's with them like many other things in life, it's not enough just to talk about things, they need to be done. There are very many positive things for planning, building biking steps, and people's possibilities for traveling with cars, walking, or on wheels that I fully support. But when I see this, I'm going to say this sentence that I'm sorry to hear a lot from my wife: Stop talking about it, just do it. There are a lot of these points in this program like that. that the government's climate targets, set in 2010, should be followed. It is said that greenhouse gas emissions should be reduced in accordance with the government's climate control strategy. I checked this operation plan yesterday. It was presented in 2010, in the 2011 Parliament, with very limited ten key elements to follow, and it is set out at the 2010-2020 season. It's half past the clock. Recently it was reported that the government was renewing its fleet of cars. Is the objective of the government's policy of action on climate issues at hand? No. There's no look at her. I wouldn't be surprised if most of the councilmen at the highest level. The government did not even know that there was a plan for action that humans were following in these matters. At least I haven't done that. A minister who is certainly well acquainted with this operation plan and is closely following it and taking care of it each day. I'd like to touch positive points. It is the public transportation project that supports the development of urban footpaths, so that there will be a safe and stable walk. In this context, I want to link it to organizational matters and to the way it is becoming increasingly widespread for people to live in some kind of city or village, the concept of some kind of village where they have all the services within reach, to be able to get to and from work on foot or on a bicycle or by public transportation, and it is not the prime of life that humans have a private car. Of course, the private car is not something that should be directly hostile to, but I think it is important to choose a different life - style as a reasonable possibility. A respectable president. There are things I would have liked to talk about and to do better but I can see that I will not be able to complete all the details of the short time I'm being wrapped up in this discussion. I want to talk about two things before my time is out, that is, I'm nowhere to be safe for transportation, the so - called zero vision. It seems to me that the word that's very positive and is adopted by the Swedes and has yielded very good results is not in this suit. Maybe I'm mistaken, but I think it's really important. I'd also like to say that what's really important in the future is that we watch root vessels, root roads, traffic roads, making 2+1 roads. I look especially toward the road to Selephos. True, it is a good thing to be concerned with building up there, but it is just as important to me that you look on the north road from Reykjavík to Akureyri, with the intention of shortening it and making it easier and more secure for tourists to travel. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u59	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech and especially for bringing up a lot of the positive in his opinion in this synonym. I wanted to ask the senator about one thing because he came into the reality that Iceland and I have, unfortunately, had to deal with projects that have increased costs. For example, I refer to the expense of Walla's construction. If I recall correctly, he was estimated to be 6 billion bucks, but he ended up somewhere in 32 billion, he almost doubled, if not up to 36 now. About Húsavík. That's right, they were put in a plan, but I can't better tell you that the road was at its time pointing out that it was based on raw data, and it may have needed better data, but there was a lot of solidarity and solidarity over this during the last term, and I supported them with a whole mind. I supported the last government to accept this, and I can't remember better than that. A senator has done the same. It was about 2012. For Vállauthalism, I might like to compare them in some way to landports, two very important transport projects. Then there are unexpected things that humans would agree that at one time had been fully damaged. Unfortunately, the natural nature of Iceland is in such a way that there is something else. I'm so afraid both of these projects are entitled. I'm a great member of the land crew. But I'd like to ask why. Senator: Even if we agree on this cost, is it a working way that we're going to run the cost, don't we have to look at the landscape in Iceland? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u60	A respectable president. That's exactly what I was saying. I wanted to do it. A senator would have listened a little more carefully to what I said. I didn't support your project with Back. I sat by. I related it in my speech earlier, that was because I thought it was too late and it needed more evidence to prepare it. The difference between this project and the cost of the one that has now risen by 1.2 billion without beginning it is that the other two projects that I have been a great supporter, a much more expensive team on the side of the country, and because I think these are positive and positive projects that will eventually achieve themselves, although they have been more expensive at the time of their development, were increased in the process. In the landy country, people assumed that 25 must be released. cubic meters a year. It's been true that humans have gone about about this. 100,000 over. Of course, what has happened since then in the Vadle Road is something that has happened in other tunnels, such as the Fear of the Earth, the amount of water is more than man has anticipated, and it is unpredictable. That's normal. The only thing I was pointing out is that there were men at the end of the game coming in with a very big case that they would have had to have time to go better, just to realize that basic or original food was involved, or that would be a very inaccurate science, that there might have to be a little more research. When we receive this matter into a transport committee on the last day of work plans, I feel that I'm at risk of a residue, a risk of failure, a risk of being overlooked important factors. Of course, it is not an acceptable procedure on the environment and transport committee to receive tasks that are considered to be actually one of the main tasks of the Committee, on the last day of the Work Programme. I think it's disrespectful to the committee, and I think it's a disrespect for what it's like. Chairman of the Committee, Höskuldur. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u61	A respectable president. I listened very carefully to a talk. A senator and I thought that I had made it very clear that the senator had supported the government at that time but not a particular project, but it may have been a little washed up, let it go. I'd like to say in view of the fact that we haven't made it in the past few years, neither in the present administration nor in the last few years, to present the shorter road program that perhaps you should be glad to celebrate it, though, that it has entered the council and to the Transport Committee. I dismiss this as a disrespect for the committee. The committee has been very independent in its profession. I'm expecting her to stay that way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u62	A respectable president. Of course, it's the right thing to do. A senator not to feel disrespectful, however, to me. Here is a suggestion for 70 pages, multiple tables, and information. Based on usual environmental and transport practices, we found two times a week. You can expect to be reduced to one end of Congress work. It has been established in the council's work programme that committees are not trapped, so it can't be concluded that we found at the same times as we usually do. So I wonder what's wrong. paritaprevir Þórhallsson's palace imagines that this document should be reviewed. Will the case be sent for review? Or are there going to be some guests at a meeting of the Committee? What will those who receive it have a long notice to make their opinion known? It's been customary, I've had quite a lot of transportation, to have at least a country community meeting, if not directly, to discuss individual projects. How can you tell? A senator envisions that he will arrange such visits at the remaining time? I don't think this is very likely to work. Yes, of course, we are a hard-working committee and should be able to do something about this, but it would have been possible to get a transport plan into last fall because except for the extra money that comes in here in the last days, this would have been building the same transport program that was set up at the council last spring, could not have been finished, and would have been able to enter the council in the fall. But no one knows why it was not done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u63	President. I found that interesting. The senator mentioned at the beginning of his speech, that it was a bit old - fashioned, he did not use that word, but I'm going to use it, to submit a transport plan in the form it is presented here with a number of details where members of the Parliament begin to interfere. I remember myself when I first listened to a discussion about a transportation plan, and I don't know if I'm supposed to say I was surprised, but it was a real experience. We had a taste of shame earlier when the members of the same district spoke out about things that may not be very small, but in the large context, they do. Hv. A senator went very fast and said that there were larger points to be taken care of by members of the Parliament, not in detail. Has a what? A senator thought more deeply about how to handle a road program and how to do things different from what we do today?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u64	A respectable president. I was hooked up by the President before the South Sea. It is true that during the last term, I was a member of the South American Parliament, and before that, I was offered in the South Sea, and I was asked when I was on my work call in Viking, Snow Valley, if I would not support anyone in making a tunnel through a mountain of testing. I knew that Dyrholós was on a natural calendar and that men had to make a significant change in the line of roads and cross the Doorhos. Besides, I don't find the neck that's over the side of the North Valley to be that awesome, so I thought it was pretty out of my mind and said, "No, I don't think that's really smart. Then, for the first time, I felt that it was the opinion and opinion of the local government that the members of the district should always agree with the local people on road emphasis. I feel as if by that view, it is viewed as a matter of transportation that members of Congress should be making money for their local districts. I disagree with that arrangement. I don't think that's a good thing. I think the main part of the agency we work in is to put laws on the community we live in. There are simply men who are better equipped than I am to determine exactly where the shoe will squeeze in transportation, how to handle it, how to lie down, and so along the streets, where the greatest danger is, where the weight of traffic is greater, etc. Of course, it is important to have the knowledge of our country and its ideals, but this simply often leads to not necessarily the best available information they provide here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u65	A respectable president. Hv. A senator mentioned that the process of transportation is late. In effect, if the Senate had not been delayed, would it not have shown up unless 1.8 billion - not what would have been approved earlier and something had changed? However, the Council was to be completed when the transport program was established. I have to tell about my own chest that I think it must be very unlikely that this transport plan will be completed before the council ends, but I will not be able to judge it. Hv. A senator mentioned a term I have heard, not in a transport program. I think he talked about a zero setting - zero vision. [[Zero view.]] I want him to explain to me what that really means.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u66	A respectable president. The zero vision is the ideologies that Sweden adopted to cope with a frequent traffic accident. They were able to do so by setting the traffic standards on all projects, on all directions, and by constantly considering how to reduce the risk of transport by organizing it with the safety of traffic in mind. I think it's best to explain the zero vision so that it's like a sexy budget, every time you go through it, they look at the projects with your mind on how they affect equality. In this case, people would organize projects with traffic security in mind. Of course, we know that the separation of road policy requires a tremendous amount of money. It may not always be necessary to go to 2+2, but since we have made 2+1 roads and separate road transports for a while and then switch to certain places, people have taken advantage of opportunities to overtake and release them where there is one lane. So taking the road from Reykjavík and all the way north to Akureyri, which is very busy, and watching it as a project where we should separate travel policies, would result in a considerable increase in traffic security, the number of accidents would be reduced, that would be a positive operation. I'm not saying that this thought has been taken out of the transport structure, but it's important for me to think about it. That's what I meant.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u67	V.E.G. President. This will be discussed in the 2015/2018 transport programme. I've got ten minutes and I'm going to step up to four aspects, first of the document as such, the plan, second place of the transport administration and institutions, thirdly the focus as they appear in the schedule, and fourth, a few words are about specific factors. First of all, it is carried out in accordance with the 2008 laws that recommend that the Minister of State should submit to the Council a proposal for interpretation every four years for transport, with the policy and aims for all the sectors of transportation for the next 12 years and the current strategy in 2011◯2024. A four - year program, then reviewed every two years, should be provided, that is, the subject here today. With regard to the institutions and the administrations, great things have happened there in recent years, as in 2013 there was a major misunderstanding. Iceland's Air Administration, Navigator's Office, Traffic Room and Vega were not laid down, but they had been modified and received new names and new projects that moved something between the institutions. There was a Transporter's office and the name is the decision made by employees who participated in a vote on the vow. The same was true of Vega unless the result was that good old name, the Vega, that we really love all together. I'd like to have the Agency called Iceland's Transport Institute in line with her changing role as it would come up with an umbrella all aspects of transportation. She is the main assistant in transport management in Iceland and would have deserved that name. It may well be that we take up that matter sometime later. The part that I wanted to take part in with the administration is this. The revolution has cost a lot of money. It is designed to answer the new demands of time. We are going to consider the whole transport system, transport in the air, land, and uterus. This is done primarily for economic reasons. The result is yet to be seen, but it costs money. These institutions have had to perform what is called economic demands, and this cuts can be dangerous. We found this when a mold broke down for several losses, and people thanked them for having groups of road work on the Swamp, and from Viking to the Snow Valley, which were specialized in the bridgework. These groups had been able to reduce their number. They had been gone, and the experience taught that they could be dangerous. I look at what happened at the Association Room when a large number of people were laid off on a promise I had made as Minister of the Interior in my day. We said we shouldn't give up. Still, that was in the process of making promises. So I'm directed to the government to consider the administrative and institutional systems that we were establishing. You can't starve it. Third, I want to back up my main focus. As I was able to do before then, these institutions, this system change, in the administration, should reflect new attitudes. We're going to take all the aspects of the transportation and put them under one roof, one large umbrella. I think that's a good idea. It matters what we do on air travel, air travel, etc. I think we've cut too low in the last few years to the airports. I believe we have. But there's another one that's been wrong, not just now, but over the past few years, it's about maintenance. We've been thinking too much about major projects. It has been said in my ears here at the Assembly Hall that those who understand the other emphasis I am speaking for, the maintenance thought, are the people themselves, there are people in the region who see their roads drop down. However, this understanding has also existed in another location, and it is at the road structure that has been tirelessly warned that we are cutting too much into maintenance. There is something turning this around now, and it is very well, but the cuts were for general maintenance during the recession years when we rightly cut down to transport in an effort to protect the welfare system and the services in the welfare service, we rightly did so, not to mention it. on this. Then came the demand for the big projects. And now they're talking about 2+2 roads again. What kind of enunciation is this? We don't need that. As long as we can't properly prepare for elderly people in Iceland, we shouldn't think that way. We're not supposed to. We're 330 you're talking about. a man, and we're supposed to be looking for interest. And we're supposed to put money back on roads and keep the roads going. They know the value and severity of national cuts. I realize, however, that big business can make a difference. The link to the land island is extremely important to the Western Islands, an extremely important one. When people were talking here about comparing Vádalahöfjordur with the harbor, it's the difference that the Waffle Shak wasn't in a transport program, that's the difference, that's the big difference. And that was what the debate was at one time. Another thing I'm willing to make comments about is that the Backing Program is part of the plan. It came through the Department of Employment, not the Department of Transport. She's saved, like the highest. The minister said, in this plan but doesn't belong there. This is industrial support of 1.8 billion this year, and next year, 1.8 billion, 1,800 million industrial support, and should not be in a transport program, it should not be there. It is also assumed that this cost will be greater, 3,100 million, without a financial advantage, even if this number is mentioned here. You know, about the Swimming Course, they say it's the best. Minister that it is not now possible to attack, or so it says in this program, because there is no money. Are we not getting information on the fact that this government is going to cut down some 16 billion taxes in the coming years? Then there will be even less money. However, this action is to be carried out. Why is that possible? That is because money is to be taken out of our pockets in another way. This new tax system of Independence Party, this new appeal to the city's pockets, must have some limits somewhere. We'll see what's happening in the welfare system, in the hospitals, where a fifth of the health - care cost in the country comes directly from the patient pocket. Now they're going to hold on to this track in the road, too, just go into our pockets. I say no, thanks. No, thanks. I don't want to see it. V.E.G. President. Finally, this is about the Sunway. The last government took that stand, and it was a good decision, that this should strengthen the public transport. A billion were put to promote public transportation, 900 million to that area here, and 100 million elsewhere. It was supposed to be kept in touch with prices, but it hasn't. Now, that's 896 million. A. K., would be much higher if it had been paid. This was the equivalent of the major project for this area. And the future lies there, stopping to think like Houston, Texas, and thinking like Reykjavík, who is going to keep into the future on new grounds, an eco-friendly transport that serves the public well, but not always loading new and new highways, 16 highways to and from Reykjavík, 2+2 are talking about in some delirium when we don't have money to do that. [[The president calls.]] But I want to thank you for what's done well here. There are many things that look to great benefits. I'm glad to let money be kept in line for the road system. There are a number of factors that are worth saying about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u68	A respectable president. I don't know what it is. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson thinks. Does he think that money for road work comes from a different source than from a taxpayer's pocket, even though he may have lied to the fact that he has a serious disagreement with it? But I'm not going to talk about it. I wanted to make a comment to his opposition to the so - called 2+2 roads. Because of his answer to a talk at the highest. I named the government minister the road between Whoas and Selephos, which has for decades been the scene of tragic accidents. I mentioned that I didn't think of the idea of going to 2+1 road there, and I have a reason for that. I understand that this is not the case with the possibility that there will be a barrier between these roads. I have reasoned that there is even greater danger, such a project, possibly increasing speed on the double road, than the traffic that meets it is exposed. I want to ask you why. paritaprevir For example, if the attitude of Jónasson was to encourage further in the process to consider at least the possibility of having the roads double on both sides, the safety and safety of the public cannot be in the interests of public in the same way as when funded in health care.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u69	V.E.G. President. First, the difference between user fees and taxes. Taxation is subject frequently to revenue. They have been in our system, even though this government is trying to defuse it. It's a income-based thing. Donations are irrespective of our social status, materially speaking. There's this fundamental difference. This government wants to go on the increase in the path of taking from us as subsidies, letting us pay directly. It's just the same with our purse and the worst of those with the slightest pieces. With the double course, it's quite right, it's obvious that there's a lot of security in having completely separate ropes, a path. But I think that the same security could be achieved - and I build it on the conversations I have with Vega's experts, I also build it on emphasis from the Icelandic automobile owner's partner - and similar goals, or similar goals, by 2+1 and by some means. This is the information I received over and over again from the specialist in Vega. I want to listen to it and see that we have limited resources. There are many things we want to do, and then we should try to set things up, so that we certainly get the most security from road users, but also profiting for us who pay for it, whether we do it through taxes or on user expenses.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u70	A respectable president. It is right to suppose that, depending on my counter, I received that information, that it is certainly assumed on this particular road between Selphos and Whotypeis, these 2+1 roads. I'm happy, of course. I mentioned this, however, because there are some roads in which there are no roads, and of course, I rejoice if they do not. paritaprevir Then the wonder of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson agreeeth with me: at least this way will not be doubled. This, of course, involves spending. I think we should consider the whole road system, and don't take a short look at it. That is why I rejoice over what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. Minister of the Interior, to expect to be doubled in this way. Not to be forgotten, this road is one of the largest roads in the country. There will be a regular disaster. I think people should do everything they can to stop it and I have to trust it, if they appreciate it so, that a so-called 2+1 road by a road would answer that request.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u71	V.E.G. President. I think that's where we agree, me and him. Senator. Of course, we would like to look to the safety of road users as best we can, and I think we would also agree that doing so should be as practical as possible. I think we can reach these targets by 2+1. I agree with the senator on the importance of having weighed on this section. But I've been convinced that this organization in the road system, even on multiple means, will ensure our safety.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u72	Mr. President. We're discussing a four-year transport programme, which is proposed by a minister on the basis of transport legislation. What I'd like to talk about here at first. it is the purpose of these laws, what is being tried to achieve, and the long - range vision of the development of vehicles, which are very helpful to guide and need to be used when the transport programme is being developed. As to the policy of a transport programme, it says, by permission of the President: The aim of these laws is to coordinate planning for transport. This should be done in a transport plan for 12 years. 2.g. and a four - year schedule. (See paragraph 3.) - Now we are discussing this in four years. I'm going to 3 mg. 2.g. which will discuss a transport plan, with permission of the President: The transport programme should also take into account the following objectives: a. to achieve consistent priorities and policy development, b. to achieve the practical use of capital and resources, c. to achieve the coherence of transport practices and cooperation between the Ministry and their companies. What we're trying to do according to this strategy is to achieve a coordinated priorities and policies, economic and human resources, and then coordinate the organization with the implementation of all these factors. Then I'd like to get to the big changes being made in transport, equipment, and cars we're facing, and people have to look into when they're trying to integrate all these factors and to maximise the use of the resources that need to be developed and then to enforce them, especially these two factors. The timeline in automation. In particular, I would like to take the car or rather the car because it will be a private car to a lesser extent in the decades to come. We'll have to start seeing this trend in five years. It takes time to infiltrate a new vehicle fleet. To a large extent, this development will have been introduced ten years later. However, this will immediately be effective. The timeline when automatic cars: A game says that their car for the year will be 90% self-controlled while the Bloomberg News Service quotes General Motors that their car 2017 will be largely controlled, including if you take it over most of the time, if you have accelerated and blocked highways or in traffiques, Let's go and stop. If people look at this, they're going to cut right out of traffique. There's been a lot of talk about train transport here, all the cars leaving at the same time. The same will happen when the cars have taken these factors themselves. We're texting or talking to our neighbor or something, and we don't notice it when the car precedes us. This is the major factor affecting traffique, i.e. The biggest time show. A complete autopilot tells Google, Tesla, and Ford that we'll see around 2020. Elon Musk, president and owner of the Tesseract and founder, defines a perfect autopilot so that you get into the car, tell him where to go and then sleep until you arrive at your destination. On this point, these large car manufacturers agree that we will see 2020. True, Ford draws only ashore and says: "Yes, but it's in good weather and under good conditions. It's only five years, though. Let's try ten years ahead. So where are we gonna be? What will this mean? It would be good to keep this in mind when we are making plans for organizational matters, transportation plans. One thing this will translate, which I mentioned earlier, is when it comes to tranq. As soon as cars like this are introduced, they are already this year with 90% autopilot, can intervene, after two years, they are beginning to be able to intervene more. In traffique, you don't care about anything. This will have an immediate effect on traffique. Everyone who's trying to get to work down here in the middle of town and know the Ring Way and the Grand Way would be real happy if all the cars started off at the same time. It will soon begin to happen that some cars will start off on their own. Cars with these equipment will be leaving at the same time as the first car. And then this will develop slowly and slowly, but we'll see right away the effects of the first cars coming into traffic. Another effect this will have, among other things, be when it comes to parking lots. According to Morgan Stanley's analysis, they're going to use about 4% of the time, which means that once the autopilot is complete, you don't have to have a car anymore, but you're going to have all this shared economy that's already started, including With SIP Car, where people can have the car and share it, the car can also travel between places and have less to park somewhere, I don't even talk about if some big company takes it over. Uber's already told them they're trying to get all their fleets driven by computers, which self-controlled cars. Once we're there, this second most expensive property is no longer needed for every family, the most expensive of which is the home, but the second most expensive property that people buy is about 96% of the time in one parking lot. You can imagine the practicality and saving of money for people. People are gonna jump on this more and more. If there's someone out there, it just orders a car in the Uber app. There's some legal problem there, but they'll be solved. The lawgiver will deal with these internalized cabby interests today. I've heard from the Ministry that Uber, not the autopilot, but the Uber and such shared economy are here to stay. However, this is not reflected in the bill currently available for the environment and transport committee regarding the commercial transport of passengers. The Department said: "It wasn't quite started when we started our job on the bill, but we know it's going to come. This is what's going to come. Then we're not talking about autopilot cars, we're talking about the legal solution when the autopilots arrive. This means that, on the other hand, the need for all these parking areas will be reduced, and we can build property there and, on the other hand, all the parking lot along the streets will become unnecessary, making it easier for people to get between them and reduce traffique. This is something that I hope to express and that on some basis we can influence the treatment of the Committee, that we keep this in mind when we're making a transport plan, and if not at least in the future, and in our legislation so that we'll start looking a little forward to the future plan. Long-term policy has been our Icelanders' accolades. I think we need to start doing it to a greater extent. This device here directs our eyes to these factors so that at least we'll have them behind our ear and see if it doesn't have a long-term effect. Less autocontrol, 90% automotive, will be effective. In the years that follow, we will notice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u73	A respectable president. I want the way I did in my answer to the highest. The Minister of the Internal Affairs is happy that we are here discussing a transport program. Unfortunately, it has not been completed in the past few years, perhaps because since collapse, very limited funds have been spent in this group, but as I said, all practicalists now point out that there will be more money left in the government fund, and I have pointed out that there is a need to spend some of the rest to build up the country's transport system. Many have pointed to the maintenance of roads here. I went out last year and mentioned that we had to be careful that maintenance of roads would not be too bad that we were going to have problems similar to Finnar's. Over 20 years ago, they went through their recession and stressed our welfare system, but while the road system submerged and when the need to react was far more expensive. Therefore, in particular, I'm here not only to protect the 6 billion people mentioned in the program but also to make an additional budget of 500 million. K. and I am very happy to see that these funds are being spent in the maintenance of the road system, which, as one knows of a news transfer, are extremely lacking, both in the capital area and in the country. I mentioned local roads and stock roads that may have been at the back, many dirt roads, and now it should be a song, not just now, but perhaps in years to come with a better pace, making a skunk of this suit. This suggests spending about 95.5 billion dollars. In the next four years of transportation, which is a lot of money. It goes progressively from 2015 to 2018, but as I pointed out in my response to the highest degree. I hope that I will be able to add a little more to it when the elders and the practical authorities give a reason. Also, I'm especially glad that there's an increased stream of tourism in this country. There is a special funding for building roads that can be said to be widely used by tourists. We've talked about the Kappus Way and the connections that will be reached when this operation is completed. We're in Northeast, calling it our diamond ring. There are some of the most beautiful natural spheres in the country, and someone mentioned it so that each one of them, Fallos, Asphalt, Audiolets, would be enough to attract considerable numbers, but people did not realize that there was the same place where Husavík was so vast and so is Húsavík, the most beautiful place with all the resources in the world, the Lake area and all around it, not to mention the deserts that may be used as a useful resource. But this project, on its own, in addition to others, I'm calling the Key Pass Road, Uxabal Road, and Cold Valley Road, will help build up wood in the tourist business, and hopefully we'll also be able to do better there in the future. I'd like to kill on some of the financing roads we have to put money in this suit. Here comes 32 billion for all four years of gasoline charge, 3.5 of heavy tax and mile tax, 34 of oil tax, 1.2 of so - called charge. This should be a total of 74 billion for those four years. However, it is the so - called market income, and I noticed that some of the above - mentioned individuals were concerned that this amount of income was not really all of them in this group of litigation. Hv. paritaprevir Kristján Möller noted that he was concerned about this. I can agree with them in a way of worrying, but I would like to say that the other factor is also to be looked at because it is actually tax on those who have to drive a lot and that it is also a national tax. A heavy transport bites, which makes things so handsomely higher. A lot of people have talked about a decrease in the transport rate or a one way or another, and I think we need to be careful only when we recommend that this level of revenue is somehow increased. We agreed on it on a budgetary committee during the last term at least that we should try to reduce the number of teams that turn to the market of the state's income products, but that may not have exactly what it was, I remember that it was agreed on to the RUS that all the income stocks or nose tax would flow into the category that may have been going contrary to what the budget was discussing at the time. Then came the reason. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson mentioned that he was not particularly impressed by the fact that he was being paid for special funding. I would like to point out that in the time of the last government, it was decided to engage in Vella-Rain March. It was considered not only important for the whole area but also for the development of economic growth and some project, perhaps there was no lack of it. The main reason, however, may have been that the local people agreed to pay for driving through the tunnel before getting it before, that was a perfect partnership in all rural communities on both sides of the Válaheina. I think it was really important. I point out, for example, that when we spoke about Southland Road, we did not get the same situation. Farmers and their inhabitants actually opposed such special funding. But then there may be another debate, " Am I to take away all this marketd income, to take the money out of our country's common funds only, i.e. From the tax system, but as I said, it was not successful during the last term, unfortunately. There are a lot of work I would like to discuss in particular, but time is running out, and he's running away from me. But I'm going to let me mention some important projects in my district. I would have liked to have traveled far and wide throughout the country, but it seems to me that we need to consider the footprints. We need to consider individual ports. We need to look for a plane transport. We need to check on the sound of air. And so I'm going to go outside, I think we need to consider the future of the city of Reykjavík. The Agency mentioned that the city's area of transportation was set up in a transport program as one of the basics of the transport system, part of its foundation, but pointed out that it was only spoken of as a Brooklyn airport and that it would be possible to better locate that airport. The city of Reykjavík is extremely large, and as we know it, the city of Reykjavík has thought that this means that it should be only somewhere within the area of Reykjavík. I have believed that until the next complete peace of mind, Watermyrin is the best place for this international airport. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u74	V.E.G. President. I'm sorry for running into the dining room, but I heard some of it coming. A senator talked about it. What I'd like to ask him about in my previous answer, and then I'll let me go into our territory, is, "What do you think?" A senator says that this year there will be only about 300 million. K. you're on general roads in our area? A respectable president. I've had a special tour with a what? A senator, who listened to the same list of local authorities, such as at Thors Harbor, in urban land and elsewhere, where it seems to me that there is a planned project taken out of the plan and then reassigned. In our area, north and east, called the North East, there are only about 300 billion. K. This year, and there's not a lot growing in the following year. In the north, there are 200 million. I want to know that 59 million of them are always in the house to prepare for performance. Is this acceptable?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u75	A respectable president. The senator standing here is thus convinced that even though we were about to multiply the contributions to this group, he would still want to do better. I have repeatedly declared that improving the transport system means that living conditions around the country are being improved. This might be the tool that would best support urban development as an example. Yeah, I'd like to see some extra money, I'd be sure to admit it. At the same time, I am humble in my view that we need to place money on other issues, such as the welfare issues. I would also like to point out that during the last term, a decision was made to take on major projects, i.e. granting funding to major projects that were priority. We in the forward group supported them with a great deal of support. But I pointed them out, like a dog. A senator now makes that there are tasks that might be put on. As I said in my speech, we may now be approaching the place where we can get started with many of the smaller projects, which, like the highest. The Minister of the Interior showed himself, was completely set aside during the last terms, to pay for this large project that I loyally supported.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u76	V.E.G. President. I'm not talking about major projects in our districts of Norway. They have been more often funded than by traditional roads, that is, the contribution made by state funds. But what I'm asking you is why. In the United States alone, 262 million are being given in this year, with over 50 million being prepared outside of schedule, which is just a standard number to go to and take out and prepare further projects. However, in the years that followed, 2016, 2017, and 2018, only 150 million are devoted to construction each year in the northern regions. This is the first question, and I reiterate it: A senator - local rulers have been talking about these places and others I mentioned earlier - that their wishes are fulfilled with this? Second of all, about Kappres Road, because of that. A senator was talking about him earlier: How does he feel about the 800 million that were taken in recent years to be carried out on Kappos Road? The former Minister of Homeland said: This was only borrowed for maintenance of malarways, which will be returned completely and carried out. It was a year ago, but it didn't work out. Today, only 212 million out of 2.4 billion were awarded, and nothing is provided in 2016, 2017, 2018, and later. How does he feel about that provision?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u77	A respectable president. In view of the short time I had here to give my speech, I thought that it was best to review the overall transport program. In fact, I mentioned a few things in our fine district, but I could have listed many more. If I count, because the senator asks that the wishes of the government have arrived, I don't think so. I think there'll be quite a number of local government officials, not just in our fine district, but in many parts of the country. However, I thought it proper to point out that the decision was made to take on major projects while others may be ignored, including many of the less important projects, roads, roads, and other factors, which are now much more needed in our vast districts. Regarding the second question, regarding the maintenance money taken off construction, it was actually a crisis, as the senator knows, when money is taken in a limited amount. The fact is that if you need help, it means more expensive and more maintenance in the future. I agreed with that priorities, even though, like others, I was exposed to construction funds. However, in view of the position we've been in, I thought it was wise to do so, but I would like to see more. But I'm glad there's money in Fallifos Road and maybe, let's see, there's a little bit more to clear up on the environment and transport committee when it gets there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u78	A respectable president. I'd like so many others who before me have been thanking me for my contributions in this Senate language and the highest. Minister of the Interior for its preparation. At the same time, I'd like to say that the emphasis we have in this hall can probably have 63 opinions on, but, naturally, such a plan is presented as some sort of compromise, priorities. There are professional analyses behind it, etc. To me, good transport systems are not just one of the most important structures in society, so to see the transport system, but also a security issue for the community and for the priorities of road, transportation, and, more importantly, the emphasis on safety, the improvement in accidents. There are well - known accidents studies in the transport system and are to be especially viewed in setting priorities. A good transport system is also in my mind professional business, and not only in the sense that it involves projects in road transport, aerospaces, aerospaces, highways, roads, contractors, funeral contractors have this trade, but it is also a business matter in the sense that, in particular in the scattered areas, people are highly dependent on good transport in order to attend jobs outside their own habitats. That part of the development of industry in the whole country is becoming more and more important. Similarly, the development and development of electronic transportation are important. I would like to welcome at the outset the emphasis now shown in the government declaration and plan of the Supreme Court. In this year, the Minister of Ministers on Privacy for the exercise of road measures, including areas such as maintenance of road maintenance, Uxa backwaters, Votar Passes, and Cold Valley, which are members of the category of projects that can improve the safety of tourists, may be important for the construction of jobs, travel services, and are also important for the groups that we can say are built up. I'd like to mention the news in this future transport program that there is a plan for implementation on animal tunnels, but I also want to deal with the West Coast 60. The decision that fell this week is important, that the road will continue to make a new environmental assessment, and hopefully this will help us to keep a lamp in these important projects. It is to my mind an example of the roads that we in this hall are not very concerned with, but it's extremely important for the whole country and for this area. I hope that we will be able to defend and advance in those areas so that we can see to it that this will soon be accomplished. Then it comes to what I want to direct the committee that they discuss in their case. What comes first to my mind is a means of communication and emphasis on road transport in this transport program, which my sense would need to make a much more attractive effort. No one act on the road could, or may matter, the scattered regions as much as the maintenance and construction of the network. We use rails, pithole malar roads too much, and because they name their districts, I allow me to mention the districts all over the country. There are roads where we drive every day hundreds of thousands of schoolchildren to and from school. They are the inhabitants of these rural areas, who come to work long distances and weeks, who have to live with them, and thus could hardly be found as effective in rural, commercial, and security efforts, but to do even better in the maintenance and building of cohesion. So I especially want to discuss this with the committee, and I would like to see a significant improvement in that category. I believe that in the process of the transport program we're discussing here, it's too modest. Third, I would like to mention what may not often come up in discussions about transport plans, and I have missed a little in recent years, but it is as much about rural development and the maintenance of fences. I'm not going to say that the money is very small in the strategy designed for fence maintenance and fence maintenance, but I want to direct it to the Committee to discuss it specifically, because I know there is a great need for reform and maintenance of fences. This is a security issue, and it is also a recognition of the way roads have been constructed across farms that such workers must be maintained in order to fulfill the promises made at the time when the roads were proposed to be handled properly. Then we can discuss many other benefits. I don't want to list any special road repairs related to my district but I want to discuss road improvements or transport reforms related to a double link to the Kjalarnes road and the context of this procedure with the Sunway. I have always declared myself open to the fact that there are many ways to finance road projects, but when we discuss the Dizziness and its funding, I think we may also not forget that we could add or knit to the Sunway double on Kjalarnesi or 1+2 roads, which are called in excess of the next few years. Without making the point, I think it's important that we examine this approach in the context of the Sunday discussion. Transporting plans are also much more than just roads. For example, it is about maintenance of airports. We have a budget, the last two autumns I've sat in, received many rural governments on the focus of road transport, as well as the improvements in airports and maintenance and loss of domestic flights, and we've discussed that a great deal in this room. We've been working on the project on how to use income from the flight, the international flights at that time, in order to maintain our internal flight system. It was under way to try to change the last budget, pointing out that there could be a profit from the science of Istavia and a transfer into a business or maintenance of international airports. The proposal to the council says that for the first time there will be a considerable reimbursement of airports, but as at the highest level. In his historical history, the Minister of the Interior Church has an enormous need to maintain airports. Since it was 1 billion a year in my mind, the project continues to explain how we can move it to an agreement that we can better make a fine profit from the international flight to maintain and build up our national airport. These were the key elements I would like to address in a short talk on the development of a concierge proposal for transportation. I want to direct it to what? Environment and Transport Committee to discuss the factors I mentioned on road transport, fence maintenance, the context of the construction of Kjalarnes on the Sunway, as well as the many other projects that, of course, need to be carried out. As I said at the outset, we can have 63 different opinions on the focus of the transport program, but the main issue is that we have a clear view and we know where we are going. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u79	Mr. President. Some people arrive late, but they do. This process of transportation can be said to be done. It has been a very long pregnancy that there would be a real transport plan for the council to be discussed from the new highest level. A government, of course, were experimenting to achieve this more than a year ago with a plan that was to come up here. Shortly thereafter it was discovered that it was unrealistic, on the basis of the budget of the same government that we have been living in until this day that we are finally discussing a revised plan to four years, the shorter plan of two which the law expects. There was so much news in the days that the government decided to make up $1,800 million. K. We and those news, of course, rejoiced, but it can be said that they were not surprising and that they were not certain bitter at the height. The government totally ignored the budgetary process that, of course, it could not, in view of a significantly increased need for maintenance and winter service, to starve the road situation as badly as expected. What I want to criticize, just to have done, as soon as I repeat, I welcome, of course, because this is a little more about the road, the work force in these materials. Mr. President. Because of the highest. Minister's here for the next three months, and I think it's the highest. Minister of state - hello? President. I want to know that the highest. The Minister of the Interior shall be here in the hall to hear my speech. I feel like the highest. The Minister of the State, if she can hear my case, should make it clear to the General how this proposal was made about 1,800 million. K. Born and how was it worked? She's not in the transport program, I've been informed and confirmed, but I didn't quite figure this out when I was trying to understand this document yesterday, saying the 1,800 million that the government decided at dawn to add are not in a transport program. Yet, it is submitted after that decision was made. More importantly, we were offered a switch to the budget that had just been created at the government table. Now, I'm not saying that these projects are not all needs and that they haven't been in any part of the strategy, but this is not the general procedure expected to be followed. I'm asking you, "Did this road change transportation?" Did it? Or was the decision made entirely at the government table? It is by no means beyond the work that laws are expected in these areas. That's what I think I need to answer. Mr. President. Secondly, I want to express my frustration that this is far more allergic than I had been to hope. I had hoped that people with better national interests and fine national interest now four, five years in a row, a considerable increase in national income, would be allowed to share in that interest, but he does not. While the figures here increase by 21⁄23 billion between the ages between the opening year and the final year of the plan, what is that? If it is set up on the same price of the current year, it is not enough to keep the roads involved in growing national production. Would this not be the case with road transport as a proportion of GDP relative to this production? I haven't figured it out, but at least I don't suppose it'll do better than keep the sea. And it is much lower than it has been in the historical average over decades. We now defend too little of the nation's income on these matters. We've got to work that down. The more attractive it is to grow, the more driving is growing, and the income it earns is growing. There is something else that cannot be mentioned here, and it is loosed in the marketd income stocks for road construction. He's really worried about me, by the way. If it were not there and the other marketd income stocks had fully followed the prices, this is a report that we were more than 7 billion in donations for the seminary. We'd just be doing relatively good things, but it's been over and over at the bad side of the last two budgets. Of course, if the government thinks it can afford not to allow this marketd income or special income to go with the prices, the centenarian taxes, and all that, it can work out well for itself, but to let it pass over the markets of the road generation year after year, it doesn't work out. I suggest that the council take a look at it, at the council to pledge an independent agency, Mr. President, whether this is what we want, or whether we should set up a plan that allows these relaxes to be processed evenly in four years so that the paying income will be restored to the bottom of the last year of this 2018 program. By that time, 7 billion more will be done that year. Does it not, then, see the difference between what we could add to, for example, by building a road that is extremely hungry? Of course, with many vital structures, too is going too slowly. It has been an ideal year trip to earn the loose in the markets, i.e. Inflation has been low, and there would have been minimal pricing and heavy tax costs, a proportion of them would have been reassigned something, perhaps 2.5% above the price level, two, three, four years in a row, a significant improvement in the balance, and a huge improvement in this category. I think it's way too close on the roads. I think it's pretty sad about flying, too. I thought that more would be put into construction and construction of airport workers in the country area. I don't see anything there that's going to come up with any suggestions for a team of workers to promote domestic flights. Now I know that some of them were making it just to the state's expense, that he gave up his taxes, but there'd have to be something in the inside of the flight. You can say the same about the harbors, they don't get much better here. I was not going to continue to change this meeting into some internal meeting of the North-east District, and I was quite busy here earlier, as if a transport committee was just a Arctic travel committee and not all of the country, but I must mention a few projects in the region that I must declare to be disappointed. As soon as I'm glad that Hudros Road is granted release to the government's decision on one 800 million, I'm told, I have to point out that it is a project that is developing at the cost of 2.2 or 2.4 billion, so it's a big deal. The disappointment is that nothing is being done in the next four years, so the wait continues. I could say the same about long-range projects at the top of the list, e.g. of the Eastern Community, such as the Axi and completing the Cradle Valley and improving the link to the city's population. The urban population is becoming the only urban core of the country, if not just the one now or shortly, which is not connected to the highway system on a bound fence and, of course, the southern part of the West, but they have the sea and there is also a better way. The Ways of Langanes Beach in the Conspiracy community of Langanes, where there are islands of some 2020 miles [1995 km] in three malares, is naturally completely out of existence after billions and billions of dollars have been spent in building all the northeast way and the hydrocarbons of light throughout the Northern Netherlands, in weapons farms, and up to the highways 1. Of course, it's impressive, and we celebrate it, it is one of the greatest transport revolutions in that area, but there are still a few holes left that undermine the amazing value of its transport routes and whole - souled and remain within a united rural society. I would've liked to see a spark in construction money to save a fortune march at the end of this plan. It's a good thing there's money in there in preparation. Then, of course, I rejoice in animal tunnels, the last of which I will not rejoice that the Westerners will receive their journeys, but I will only for the better. But of course, it's just like bringing a tunnel under the Hrafnsey Bay, or an animal-foot tunnel, in case there's not a roadway further south. Such decisions need to be consistent. We do not start placing billions of government funds in a tunnel and then just open them onto a ruined dirt road, which is shut down nine months a year. That is not a very fortunate investment. True, this is a projector in the last two years, but it's an animal, and it's going to be really waiting for it to get through the pace unless it's done better there. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u80	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the state of the state before the speech and bringing this fine body of Congress proposal for the council. I am fully aware that there is a great need and that there is a cry for improvement. I'm not going to mention exactly the unique roads, but I may remind you of the one - burnt bridges that are going to blow, and again I feel that I can do a little better in there. I am fully aware that many people cry for financial support. There is a wide shortage of roads maintenance, we realize that, but it is showing color. The last decision made by the minister of the last government was to reform it. I'd like to call attention to other matters and then sea defense gardens. I see there's not so much stepping in it. There are an estimated 100 million to the next year's project, but experience shows that a flood will occur at regular intervals, both here on the southwest coast and on the south coast, with evidence of a return to it. I encourage ministers to pay attention to putting more money in it. It is also designed to preserve mines. Old ports that are no longer in use and that surf is breaking may not be much longer, but they are full of stories. I can specifically name the southwest corner, where much construction is involved, and much of the story that the sea is ever breaking. Within a few years, they will be cast down, and their construction will be gone. I miss not seeing anything done about it. I trust that, and I will contribute to the council so that they will be examined more closely. Banishment. As important as its fishing oceans are for society, today 2015 is estimated to be only 147 million. I would have liked to see the number higher. Twenty-one percent will be 500 million. It's going up, 2017 750 million and less than 900 million 2018. This is so far, although I thought we could do better. A life of land is unsurpassed. So you ask yourself, " Am I on the right side there? ' I think it's time to stop and reevaluate the example of what road we are on. Today, in 2015, the estimated 387 million are in the country, even though I cannot imagine it being, and 297 million in 2016, 300 million 2017. That's where they're pumping sand. This morning, we have the same problem. That's where the sand needs to be pumped. There are sand reefs that prevent the ships from reaching their homes and creating valuables and jobs. Last government meeting was 1.8 billion. ... toimprovementof the road system. I would have liked to see them do more work there so that ships could land there on the next macroplankton and come to the Horngrounds safely. I still believe that the council and the government will guarantee it together. I would like to draw attention to a different subject on page 18. Sixty-three. It contains a marine security plan, with permission of the President: However, the aims of the programme include the implementation of a marine plan. to trust and increase the safety of Icelandic ships and their crews as well as passengers, to reduce the number of accidents at sea, and to reduce the damage caused by them. Much has been accomplished in reducing the number of accidents to the sea, and thanks have been given to the dangers of sailors'school, which has done amazing work. But at the same time, the number of accidents in small boats and especially in larger small boats, i.e. boats measuring about 15 tons and measuring 40 to 15 feet [12 to 15 m]. In recent years, there have been too many boats of this size, and another boat just caught up in the shore. How mild - tempered it is that boats have gone up to rocky shores in different weathers! It's a matter of time before the human race. So there is good reason to consider these matters well and especially the design of these boats. It is noteworthy that, as follows, there are special rules about ships under 15 meters of water. Brutton is a measure unit for the total size of a ship as determined by the measuring order. A vessel that is about 15 meters [15 m] or more will be measured in accordance with international discharges for shipping measurements from 23 June 1969. Ships that are less than 15 meters to the maximum length are measured according to rule rules for measuring ships up to 24 meters. This Regulation has a length of measure, called the documented length, the length of a ship that can be partially transferred. If a ship is registered under 12 meters in length, it may not require a motorman at all, but if it is more than 12 meters, two motormans will be required. Today, it is possible to have no motor manager on the ships less than 12 meters if a national motorman's agreement is to maintain maintenance. There is a big difference between a moving boat with one person on it and only the calm of the weather or the four - man - made lineboat and the calmness of a somewhat bad weather. The last one was stranded because of an engine failure, but most of the time it has been because the over-fished crews have fallen asleep on the watch and had their way back to the beach. It is important to examine the safety profile of small boats especially before a disaster. So I trust that in this suggestion, as it comes out, and I reiterate it to the highest. Minister, these matters will be given special attention to the small boats.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u81	V.E.G. President. Here we will discuss a transport plan for the 2015/2018 season, which is quite late and it is evident that very little time is expected. General. Of course, the plan is being carried out by specific guidelines, and transportation advice makes its own suggestions. In fact, in this program, I miss that there is no clearer emphasis on the priorities, the work, and the logical support of the priorities reflected in the plan. I think this is one of the examples we've been discussing at the council for several reasons, i.e. plans are to be made for the council, careful coverage, the council will shape its policy, and then funding will be put into budgets to ensure the conduct of the case. If this process is not worked so that the process is open and you get to see how it's done, there's a chance that things will get lost on the way, and the plan will not be as good as it needs to be. Added to this are the activities that have already appeared in the last few days. The government has been adding to the pot, not just the amount of money that is worth, if people have room to add money to the roads this year, but by means of contributions from financial resources to individual projects. I reiterate the question I heard coming from what I heard. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon said that it would be good to explain how this was decided and whether it had been handled by transportation in a way that would contribute to the extra financial resources. Now we know that this program has been delayed, among other things, because it went out to the council. Because they disagreed with what was in the program, it was sent back for further work, and there can be no comment about it unless everyone knew that the matter was supposed to be back in the council a month ago and that it would have been better to get more time. As always, each one has his own opinion of what is in the plan. As I look at this plan, I notice immediately that we're looking four years ahead and there's no fixes on the road around Kjalarnes. There have been ideas about the Sunway, and it is clear that the road will be similar to that of Kjalarnes. The traffic has become very dangerous in certain weatheres and very slow. Not all of us are going on the short journey from Avéri to Reykjavík, but this is often the end of our journey from Akureyri or from the east. I've said that it is easy in itself to put 2+1 on part of the way to make traffic easier, so that you don't have to travel there after cars or vehicles that drive at 30, 40, or 50 miles an hour, and there's no way of passing on this route unless you take some risk. I've noticed that there's some reason there, probably because of the whale tunnel back then, that way was left behind, i.e. if we compare it to the 2+2 road to Cheflavík and if we compare it with very good and extensive projects on the Southland road to the Hoagros. Here on the schedule, there are exactly 2+1 going between Whos and Selephos, about 1.5 billion. In the Western region, there is an Uxabar route that comes in as an additional project, i.e. There's an increased focus on the tourist route. It is not enough just to put emphasis on tourism. Of course, public transportation has to be put in first place, as far as travel is concerned. There is reason to rejoice that the Westerners will receive considerable compensation. If you take examples of a car assignment they calculate the cost of a car, it's not the best way to do it. It's a ground-to-wall only thing. Let us hope that there will be an agreement to get through the Forest of Chef so that it will be possible to carry on with the 2.7 billion in the program and then complete the work AðiłKrify that will be 500 million this year. The animal tunnel then arrives as the next major tunnel after the North Sea tunnel, and hopefully they will not be delayed. Here are some suggestions to speed up this project, including the following: ... butit'snotinthisprogram. As we have seen in this discussion, it is also necessary to ensure that the Douginghö will be corrected, in which case there will be 850 million in 2017/2018. One of the things I noticed when I went over this schedule was a payback on the road. I'm told that it will be discussed in the 10-year plan, i.e. the next schedule that is missing from this one. For many years, citizens in the country have made only one way, in and out of Reykjavík, i.e. The west route through Halfland tunnel. Now we know exactly how it was in its time. I personally took part in setting up a Hagland tunnel and supported it as a private project, but long ago living should have been laid down because the work has just been done as large and even larger, including some of the major projects that have been done. on the Chefaví route, the Southland road, and the river, who has been chosen not to charge. I think it's really important that people start making sure, and they come into the 10-year plan that the tunnel will be free of charge from July 12, 2018, for it will be 20 years and then at the hospital, giving the State the tunnel to the business. Certain groups have discussed that this is the way they should continue to pay. Among other things, they have been discussed in connection with the Sunway. I don't think there's a chance that people will continue paying for only one way out of town. The currency must then be addressed in whole terms, ensuring a change in form of currency, making a note of all new projects, if that happens to be the case. But the requirement is that the tunnel be free of charge on July 12, 2018. In an outsideer, the tunnel payment has subsided, but during the last days there was an increase of up to 16% of the walk fee, which is interesting to consider in terms of collective agreements and other factors. I also wanted to draw attention to the thrill that the emphasis on such a piece of paper can be. On page 18. 23 The proposal offers economic goals and deals with them in detail. Five points are mentioned, and then a chapter on how to achieve these goals. What I find important is the bioavailability of a disabled person, which is a special point number 15 of the 16 teams of all the people that need to be stressed. That's what I think is bad priorities. I think it's supposed to be a lot higher than that. The same is true of public transportation, a considerable number of which are mentioned here, and also enormously significant. It contains very vague details of page 11. 22, with President's permission: A public transport will be reviewed on the basis of new laws on passenger transport. Organization will be organized into a global system and will be controlled with equal authority in the State's support of contractors. What does that mean? There's no explanation for this. Where will this take place in the program? True, there is a agreement with the city's city of Reykjavík for building public transport, but there is a great deal of heat in many parts of the country because it seems that people tend to take the most lucrative ways out of the local community and hide the private companies that can make a lot of money at the same time as the government is supposed to pay off the other roads. It's a bad way if people don't trust themselves to take public transportation in a single area and also plan for their money. In Article 2, under the premeditation of road transport targets, it says, by permission of the president: They will be defined in accordance with the national parish plan and will seek to shorten their travel time within them and expand them. There is no explanation for what this means. What are these parishes? This has been worked on in a program, but there is no conclusion. There are quite a few beautiful words here that are needed to be interpreted in the review of the committee. I miss it. As I mentioned at the beginning of the talk, there should be more background information on what is behind this strategy based on the criteria that humans take in the goals that will appear in the same schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u82	President. There is no doubt that transport is the foundation of society and that it is of utmost importance to all people in the country, wherever they live. It matters how people get to their homes and homes and how all transportation is organized in a single body, so that the road system is viewed not only by the road but, for example, by flying a completely different plane but by the whole thing is viewed in the major context. Indeed, it has been done in recent years, trying to improve the linking of all the transport systems together. I have no doubt that's good. We can always debate whether more or less money goes to the trade, and I'm sure we all want it to go a lot more, and some people want more, and we can argue about who made the world record, whether it was this government or any other government. What matters, I think, is that the money given to these matters is best spent. For most of us, it is a road that we speak about transport, but it is natural, like flying routes and other things, when new paths are opened in transportation, it is often very difficult to predict the demand. I remember that sometime around 1990, I think it was, I was running over the bridge over the Alfjusse, which I think was taken into use in 1988, and it pointed to me as to how great the traffic over that bridge was compared to what had been predicted. It was multiple times. Naturally, plans are carefully planned, but when a new route is opened, there are a lot of people who want to go that way. The same thing happened, for example, with the Halfground tunnel, which was far more traffic than expected. This makes it necessary that we often need boldness to take up new projects or open up new flight routes because it is difficult and thought it would be unwise to predict huge increases. At the same time, though, I think it also depended on us a little by taking good care of our money or making the best use of our newfound resources for research. I think the only reason why the costs of transportation often exceed a plan is because we don't study enough. Of course, you can't investigate into the endless, I agree, but we shouldn't be saving research when we're going on a new project because if we spend a little more, we're likely not to get too much extra costs. That's what I'd like to say in general. With regard to the current strategy, I rejoice to add to the winter service and maintenance of the roads. Of course, winter service has to be added because winters are different. I couldn't quite figure it out. It was presented in a speech. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, whether the 1,800 million currently installed are part of this growing winter service or whether it's in here. I don't know about that, but I'm glad, and I'm happy, too, because of those 1800 million, it seems to me that 500 million should go to the capital area. No matter where that money comes from, I rejoice, and it must take maintenance road, because we must also realize that it is not just the winters that make this difficult. We've increased traffic here so much because of all the tourists coming to the country. We're always talking about natural passes, and the government has to take 850 million, and it's good for her to do it to get into the tourist facility, while my all-powerful, respectable President, the pressures that traffic must have on the road system in Iceland. It must be a hell of a thing. I think we need to think about it when we talk about how we're on roads. Then I'd like to say in the context that it's a sin how domestic flight is planned. I don't think I'm going to go out specifically with that song, but I think it's my opinion that because the international flight is from Reykjavík, or by any means possible, perhaps with exceptional exceptions, foreign tourists are not using the international flight as they might have remembered if more were flown out of Cheflavík. Then tourists might switch in there, fly to Akureyri, and drive into town, something like that, but not always sweep into Reykjavík to drive the golden ring. If they went north, they could drive the diamond ring. I like the Norwegians finding that word when they travel. We have a gold ring, but they have a natural diamond ring in the north. That's fine. We members of the city of Reykjavík have often been accused of not being big enough ballots and we don't order money to travel in Reykjavík, as it has been done. It was shown earlier that Reykjavíkurburg had given up some money; I think it was to build different streets at the mallside conventions and the Grand Ways. I want to thank the city of Reykjavík for giving up that money. But I highly welcome this program, was it not 2012? It was about public transportation and about providing 900 million a year for public transportation, to increase them, and to increase the number of tracks and bikes and so forth. We see in the capital, that the environment has changed tremendously, the way people travel, and that is, in my opinion, all for the good. I have a lot of doubts about the Sunway and that it should take personal action, and people should pay every time they go through it. I trust the highest. In order to cooperate closely and effectively with our rural communities in the capital area on that project and whether it is just what we want to spend on it. In all projects too, caution is needed. Yesterday, the Supreme Court pronounced a remarkable judgment, since those who objected to the way of Elfphnes through the Illegean test and received paroles for two years do not have to pay the fine laid upon them by the district court. It tells me that it was too difficult for those who opposed the road back then. It must also be fitting when the roads are set out to listen to the people and to take into account their willingness to move the road 500 yards [500 m] to or fro. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u83	V.E.G. President. This is where we discuss a transport plan for the 2015/2018 year. First, I'd like to express my joy in the fact that our transport program has come up and thanks to the highest degree. Minister for that. I can totally agree with the words that have been said in speeches today and in the highest degree. A minister pointed out that, of course, we all wanted to see it happen sooner, but here it is, we are discussing it, and the material process can be considered. I've mainly looked at what happens to the areas I work in, and I want to start by talking about Vestafjörður. What a joy it is to see that the Vestístóttir is in a transport program, that is essential, and in fact, it has been before. In my speech not so many days ago, a week ago or so, I expressed concern that the process was still in the Organizational Institute, but only a few days later the news came that the Organization had accepted positive and could be continued on a planned roadline. Western roads are of enormous importance, including the southern part of the West. There's a lot of structure going on, a new business to take root in areas where safe transportation is needed. If we just look at the population of the area, evolution has been for many years that they have had more and more to attend various services in Reykjavík or in the south and have had to rely on these unstable paths around their necks and hairs, which are often shut down in bad weathers and dangerously dangerous. It is essential for these people to get lowland roads, and it is a joy to see that the process is now going on and that they are being tried to complete it and found a successful solution, and we see that the regular transport program will start in 2016, seems to me. The highest words have also been found. Minister of hope. I also want to thank you for the fact that in this process so far, members of the northwest area have been allowed to closely monitor what has been going on in the West coasts. I hope that we will continue to observe the positive steps that we may see next, because it is important that the local people worry about these matters that we can answer them and I want to make the most of them. Minister to continue on that course. If we only talk about tunnels, then there's another important issue for the West. If we look at the entire West, much structure is going on in most parts of the world. In order to make the best use of these assets, and the combined effect between the southern and northern coasts of the West is of utmost importance to transport to and from the zones. Over the wintertime, the route from Patrekfjörður to Isafjörður is about 600 miles [600 km], but I think it would be about 200 miles [200 km] if an animal tunnel came into existence, but then we also need to keep the Dome Empress in order so that all of these factors must be looked to. But I appreciate it. I see that there's some sort of internal funding on avalanche control in the spray bay. We hope to find a tunnel through that region in the near future, for we see that the area is isolated over the worst winter of the month because of the danger of avalanches and because the road is dangerous. Another important issue that has been in the discussion for many years is the road to Aarnesf on the Coast. There I would like to stress the need to consult with the inhabitants of that city. A transport program is funded for that area, but it is important to consult the people who know the circumstances best about how to deal with them and what ideas are there. So it seems like a lot of good things in this transport program, although we always want to see things happen faster, I'm one of those people who really want things to happen yesterday. But I feel positive that these factors have entered a transport program. I want to be completely honest with the fact that when we senators of the Agency in the Northwestern district, we hear in every part voices that there is a need to respond to this and the rest because there is a great need for roads in many parts of the West, not just in the West, but in many parts of the country and indeed in all parts of the country. We can name conditions that are badly lost and need considerable maintenance, such as local and network roads, which lead to mass tourist attractions, and they need enormous funds. I would have liked to see more money in that way, but I know that it is not always there, but I still want to include it in the discussion that it was very important to have enough funds for maintenance, no matter where we look at the country. I would like to mention only a Diving Way in my speech. I live at the Acdéri site, where less than seven of you live. a man and hundreds of people leave there each day either at school or at work in Reykjavík - a few years ago, I heard that there are 700 people - and it is extremely important to have good transportation between them. They're fine today, but I can see that the waterway is inside a transport program, and it's called a search for ways to finance it with private resources. Now the inhabitants, or all those leaving Reykjavík and West, have to pass through the Haggard tunnel and pay for it. In this context, I would like to suggest that, in the event of a private project, try to set that taxation to a significant degree. In response to a written request I sent to the Minister of the Interior Minister for the winter, it was found that much of the Westland's population, the city population, Ak Aranes, has paid the largest portion of the tunnels since the opening of the tunnel. But there would be a lot of transportation, and it would bring Aranesp closer to the capital, it has its pros and cons, and I would like to mention in the context that it is very important to consult with the local population and see what they have on this. I know and have received information that a great deal of work has been done with the city of Reykjavík on the Sunway, since there have been debates about where to enter Reykjavík, where the drive to Reykjavík should be. According to the information I have received, it is important to try to make peace with the views that have existed in the situation in Reykjavík and enter the current major city organization. I believe that the waterway could have a positive effect on Western countries, such as tourists. If we just look at Acdín and that area, there are times when it is so far that it is so far away from the capital, but it is no big deal to leave the country to the capital, somehow shorter. I think it might involve a lot of parishs for the Westlands and that area if the waterway became reality, but I'd like to point out that extra taxation will not become too much on the inhabitants of these areas, but I'll be very positive about this idea. I have not been able to read through all of the transport programs, but I have considered the ways that have been most experienced by me and a member of the Northwestern Parliament, and I am quite pleased to see how they are coming out. Of course, you always wanted things to happen a little faster, but you're glad that things are not being delayed. I'm very pleased with that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u84	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Arnardóttir Arnard's speech. Most of us haven't quite gone through the plan, since it was just distributed yesterday, but what? A senator spoke best of the places she knows best. I'd like to ask her a little bit more about it. To be more specific, I'm talking about a beast's tunnel and a Daringhame. I'm told there's one thing that doesn't really work unless the other's okay. Animal tunnels end up in Eagle Lands, and if pagans are not okay, then the roadblock is there and vice versa. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament has already considered the current strategy, i.e. how these two big and big projects connect in time. I see that there are estimated to be 400 and 450 million twenty-one million and 2018 in Dome of 4.5 billion, but it seems to me that there's quite a distance from the budget. I'm asking why. A senator whether it is normal for these projects to be completed or both at once, and I direct it to those who control the funding for these two projects whether this is not necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u85	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. That's a very good question. That's right, as a matter of course. A senator says that it is not enough to enter an animal - pine tunnel if we are not going to do anything about it because it would be a faraway place. We see that 2017 and 2018 spent a total of 850 million in the course of The Hugueins. Only about 1/4 or 1/5 of the budget needed to clear that road. I have to admit that I'm not really in the middle of what you can do for that money, I have to admit that I'm not sure what this amount means for the total cost. But at least I think that if we put funding in this, it'll come a lot more later, that this is the first step in making extensive transportation between the south and north of the West. I think I forgot to tell earlier in my speech that, no matter where we entered the district, we've always talked about the fact that the most urgent matters in our territory are Vestur transport. According to the information I've learned, they've fallen behind, among other things, due to a trial in Chef Forest, and unfortunately, the animal tunnel has shifted somewhat compared to previous transport programmes. So I'll tell you what. A senator, I believe, from now on, is that we are beginning to make a great improvement in these projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u86	V.E.G. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree that it is good to start with an important project, but at the beginning it would be a good idea. In my later answer, I'd like to ask the senator about charges or expenses for the use of transport workers. She reasoned in her speech that if she wanted a modest amount of Daffir, she would be involved. She also said, not to question, that the majority of the halls in the Haggjörður were paid by payingors, Akureyris, and people living in that area. But it is also worth noting that those who have benefited most from this project are those who have paid the most for it. I wish that it would be here during the discussion, and I would like to ask her what her attitude on the payment of transport operations is in general, especially in the light of my questions earlier on animal soil and Daringhur. There are two projects of about 10 billion. Is it not unusual for those who use such enormous monumental monuments to pay for their use even if only in order to make the project faster so that we can make more of the transport efforts in other parts of the country? It may also be noted that if we are going to power or try to reduce the fuel use of a vehicle fleet, we need to make money somewhere to meet it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u87	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator again before the contrary. Yes, the end should be considered at the beginning, so it is. I have strong hopes and hopes at that end because while you always want to see more, we are seeing a lot of money on transportation. But I am very excited and positive for what the end will be like. I want to be optimistic about it. In terms of charges--I can totally agree with that as a matter of course. A senator claims that, of course, the rural communities have even profited from receiving the Half - a - moment tunnel. But each time, people look at what they have between their hands, what you have in your provision, and they wonder about them all from month to month. For currency in general, and he refers to the Westfair in this context, I can accept moderate currency if there is another secure way that is not too long. I can't accept remuneration in the case of Vestísfjörður -- or I don't think, I'm just thinking this right now - because there's a really long course there, and there's no choice but to make a day's journey to get between places. As soon as I've thought this all the way, I don't think I'd take comfort in the tax on those roads.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u88	Mr. President. Now we've got a transport plan and it's time. There's a lot of things I'm going to start by saying, "I'm happy to do it when you think something is positive, and if you're holding back another thing you don't think is as positive, but I'm very glad you're in there. True, a man was frightened that they would be knocked off, but they're in there, and carried out like Darfik is also inside, even though it's a little far away. Even if I want to help with road projects, I can be completely satisfied with a few things, much too much of a nail has been cut over the years. This needs to be kept in some proportion to the production of the land, since we have not yet come to the point where we have built up decent transport throughout the country. Of course, we know that certain parts of the country have been falling apart too long, even though such conditions are improving in the right direction and are prominent in the West and that they are the part of the country that has been behind others, although places are in place as mentioned above. Today, too, the town's fun is growing. Of course, transportation needs to be added. It's good, though, if you're not sure about going to the Earth's tunnel. It has been reported that there will be an estimated 7.5 billion animal tunnel that will be offered over the next year and funds for the implementation of the EU budget will be in 2017/2018, but in 2019 there will be 2.9 billion to complete this project. Of course, you're worried that there won't be any money and I would have wanted to see that it would be worth more as long as it's been late. The current government delayed them from what was planned in the previous government transport program, or investment plan, and then the tunnel would have become ready for 2018. It is stated that the completion of these urgent projects will not go far into the future. The road over Daringdas has grown to some 60 years of age and has had very little maintenance. It is expected that this scale will be a total of 4.5 billion, and here it is estimated that it will be carried out in 2017±2018 850 million, with a total of 3.6 billion to complete this project. It is also very important to hold these two hands, for we will not benefit from entering the animal tunnel and entering Eagle Fjord if we do not get any further. The only way out comes from there is the Daring Bearh, who, of course, must finish along with the animal soil, as has been mentioned here by more speakers. I'm also glad that there's a budget there, like in Strands County, as isolated as the Aarneshpp is, however, that seems to aim pretty slowly on that section. This, however, goes further and through the forest of Chets, was determined by the Organizational Organization in the days in which you have become more optimistic about the fact that the matter will begin to take place in order to be established. As I understand that from the Road Building, it will be the first thing next year that could be started on the 60 West Coast Road and continue building on the section that runs through that area, the Gufudal Squad, and hopefully the new line will be carried out through Chef Forest, which will not have as much distance as any previous plans. Many factors have been developed here, whether or not to take part in private projects, as suggested by the visit to the Dizziness Way. I don't like it too much and I don't think we're supposed to find anything to do with it, there's a lot more urgent than going to the Sunway and a double, 2+2 road. That is why I am glad that this is a 2+1 road from Reykjavík to Selephos, the section mentioned. Experts have expressed the opinions of an environmental and transport committee over the years when I was on that committee, and we have come to realize that this export was by no means less certain than 2+2 and everything that recommended that there was a very safe access to traffic security. I also think it's important that public transportation stays inside, given the contract made during the last term to 2016 or 2018, I don't have it here. [[Taken out to: 2018.]] 2018. I'm very happy with the money where they're a little less than expected, but that's not what I think to make a big deal, and that's a real pleasure. In general, building as has been achieved in the maintenance of roads and roadways, unfortunately, this has submerged too much and has become much more expensive to get into maintenance than would have been. Everyone knows it, and I'm not gonna be ashamed that it was this one to blame, and this whole economy just collapsed seven years ago, and before that, it wasn't in good condition. It's just going to have to spit in the palms of these roads, road construction, and districts around the country because they are crucial to both the people living in the scattered areas, and also to tourism in the country that has become the largest commercial means of currency. We need to be able to accept the traffic that comes with the tourism, that tourists are spreading around the country, and that they have the potential to explore the many - wide natural bulbs around the country. I am stressing the need to try to take a closer look at the Environment and Transport Committee, support for these roads. Unfortunately, with regard to the ports, it is far from being well financed, and I also want an environmental and transport committee to take a closer look at this role. Various projects have been well started, but now it is decided to complete in a longer period of time. I think it's bad that things are getting way too far into the future, for they can destroy what has been done and be more expensive at the end of the day. Only at the end of the 1,800 million that the government took care of during the days do I believe it is not enough of a careful method of bringing it into Congress in this way. Of course, these matters and their implementation should be discussed within the transport board and suggestions, and it should be done by the Generals to determine how the roads are distributed and what to do with it. No other place should be done by the executives, and the General shall receive this funding to work on how to handle it in individual projects. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u89	Mr. President. I'm going to establish only the transport program here that looks like daylight. We've been calling for her for a very long time and like the highest. A minister made this clear later on than anyone would have wanted. It's fine in itself that the plan is set out and that we can start talking about it. As a financial committee member, I cannot help but criticize how a decision was made regarding the extra financial resources that are being maintained on the outside if it is right to overlook the transport and all of this ordinary process and is not being carried out here, either. That's not a good government. At the same time, you always welcome extra funds into the vital infrastructure of transport. When a financial committee gets visitors, it is what is being considered in a transport program one of the things that most of the local authorities start and end up talking about, i.e. The roads, communications, and ports. It's a big issue in every country, so there's a lot of people here who come up with a lot of opinions about it, so I wonder if we have time to settle it so that we'll be able to accept it at this assembly. A figure has been entered on specific projects belonging to my district. I'm happy for the money put in the rest of the seafront building in the Mountain House, it's now very timely. There are also other minor projects, some of which are stretched out, too much, to think, and others, more than reasonably. I just wanted to go to the Senate text. We know that the road structure is funded by markets and direct contributions and equipment at a financial committee as to whether the stock will remain market or not. It has just been discussed that our income was not up - to - date with the prices, and we have not been part of a financial committee. I've strongly criticized the fact that in the present era, the roadmaking should be paid in advance, premeditated income, which has been called, and here seems to me, if I'm right, I've been talking about 81 billion. There have been disagreements as to whether to pay the amount back because it belongs to projects determined by the government - the road system may not have expected to have to pay it in this way - instead of taking it down, which should be done to my knowledge, and perhaps use the money the Roadmaker is always paying back in the many needed measures listed here. It is interesting to read here in the text that speaks of how these projects are developing, how they change, and the costs of the environmental and organizational procedures involved, in which more extensive consultations need to be sought. This will result in an increase in cost, and things will also take longer. This is one of the things I think we need to take into consideration. There was talk of security, including cameras. There's talk of roadside cats, bridges, and other things, many of which are involved in security. All of this is to such a minimum that just what is necessary is being done. Yet, it does show that the need for money is so great that it is not enough to defend the road system or to maintain an adequate ministry. We find this in many parts of the text, and there is something that we feel very sorry about, when surveys of traffic security show that these factors, including roads, are extremely important. I just want to come into the Landing. I'm not going to talk down transportation to anyone living in a rural society that's been making a really good trip that's been improved year after year. But those with interests, working to deepen the harbor, etc. And hold it open, say it is an almost impenetrable road, seeing whether any new ferry shall come or not. When I read it, I cannot help but agree with it. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson's son Paul's time to reconsider that decision. Are there other possibilities? As a defender, continue this course when the previous years have shown us that the cost is overwhelming, and perhaps an unkind way of keeping things to a good degree is overwhelming. The islanders are looking for a full year of traffic, but the director of Rescue believes that the situation in spite of what is being done cannot be compared to what is being done. It is interesting to know if something else is being discussed. I know that this is the subject of research and research, as shown on page 12. 29, but I think this is something we need to stop at. Regarding the flight, I also agree that I would have wanted to see, from the conclusion of a parapolitic committee on the airport that it was followed by financial support. I think we've been counting on that, since it's obvious--in the text it says that even the closing of landing sites with and without a planned flight in several places does not result in further funding in the latter part of the season. I think we have to be very aware that this is not a plan that I am about to be able to see unchanged in this regard. And it also comes out to offer out --I suppose I was standing, I can't remember where it is exactly - the unarguable ways as we call it. Perhaps a minister will review it a little, if it's not quite clear that it will be done, that there will be an invitation this year on those means. [[Up front.]] What? [[Up front.]] Yeah, it's Gulgi and all of it. I think that matters a lot, and I think we agree with that, too, but then it comes to the realization that if you don't have a condition to keep on the flight, then there may be little point to offer it out. That is why it is very important that we consider following through on this matter. It's actually supposed to be over at Gugri, but I don't know exactly about the situation at other airports. That's the biggest thing I ever wanted to talk to you about. I agree with what was said about the state of the gangs and many other factors that have been presented here, that is something of the local councils, and the legal committees hear a great deal of it. This is what burns most on people in the scattered rural areas. First of all, I would also like to know the minister's attitude on this reimbursement of the market money, that the roadmaking is still paid by those in advance, measured bills made as debts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u90	V.E.G. President. First of all, I wanted to thank the highest. Minister of the Interior for implementing a transport program. I'm glad she's out. It turns out that when many projects have been waiting a long time, you can't do everything at once, you have to accept it. There is much good to see in this program, including the fact that Hellishach is at the front of the program and the road between Selephos and Hoatos. I am also glad that there is a plan for animal tunnels and early observation at Seyward Straitways. There are many matters in many parts of the earth that are worthy of joy. I am happy that 200 million a year will be spent on improving traffic flows and public transportation in the capital area. I think that's a lot of need. I also rejoice that the benefits of having a private career are on the agenda. Split waterways are very important to the capital area. I am also so happy that in 2015 and 2016, Senator of the Southwestern District, Eaglenes Road of the Smokeins Road will make it possible for him to make the Fifiuhvamm Road. All of this is for improvement, so it's time to celebrate. There's one thing I'm worried about in this transport program. I want to challenge the highest. Minister and minister. The Environment and Transport Committee to review that it will be first in 2018 that a double-floc of Kalsalel Road will be initiated on the Krysuvines Way from the South in Hafjordur and a roadside convention. This year the government has set up 1,800 million people, which are especially known as tourist roads. That's why I feel that it's as if people don't put more emphasis on finishing two of the biggest tourist roads in Iceland, the way most tourists come to Iceland, on the other hand, Smoke lanes, that's not what they're doing. I know that the town government of Hafnarfjörður is deeply concerned about the current association between the Smokey Way and the Key Louis Road. Yesterday, I received an e - mail that discussed the very billion to be used on the Smokejanes Way in 2018. This billion people would have wanted me to move forward in time because of the Ásbjörg's growing population density, in Hafnarfjörður, and there is also a lot of work to be done. To be sure, it is a very dangerous mold into the industrial area of the Krysavík Road. Every day, there are a number of large freight trucks that are late in floats. A man has been concerned that there will be an accident at a simple T-hole meet in the industrial district at Hellana test. The trucks that drive from the east with a left turn into the neighborhood and to the west are hovered out of the neighborhood, and they drive through very fast on the Smokey Way. It can also be mentioned that in the neighborhood, flying routes, or Icelanda, are being built up by a very large work station that will likely operate several hundred people. There's gonna be a lot of traffic out of that station. This is a lot of concern. That's why I want to use this opportunity and challenge the highest. Minister and minister. The Environment and Transport Committee that the thousands of millions intended to improve the Sverigeway south of the 2018 Hafnarfjörður will be moved forward into time so that, if not this year, 2016, this will be possible. I don't think we can wait for a disaster or a disaster that can be avoided. In this transport program, I find that just so much emphasis is placed on a measure of security that needs to be improved. There are a lot of things in this program that look for ways to improve security in many places. That's why, as I said, I feel that the thing facing everyone must not be done in time. It is said that today, as well as the next year, and even the next one, there will still be an increase in the number of tourists each year. 95% of them go this way, either in group vans or in rental cars, so traffic will gain its weight from what is currently available. There's nothing left to wait for this project to happen. I sure hope so. Environment and transport committee and the highest. A minister takes these words seriously and will seek ways to get the job done more quickly and safely. Otherwise, I repeat my pleasure with this plan. She'll testify that there's been an increase for the first time in a little long time. That means you have to rub the money out thin. There are many activities that need to be addressed. In this regard, too, I would like to express my concern for the future of the Reykjavík airport. To me, the truth is, it's very serious that the airport is actually going to be dead in the next nine to ten years. I think it's even more serious because we're gonna build a high-tech hospital right there because the airport is there. I wondered in horror how on earth we should be able to justify that project if, now, we see that the airport is not going to be there between nine and ten years later. There are a number of factors involved in this road program that is worthy of careful attention. I trust each other. The Environment and Transport Committee is certainly for this and for its good Chairman, what. paritaprevir The head of Þórhallsson's son. I expect her to work on this program and return it to the council for success. I appreciate that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u91	V.E.G. President. I'm going to like others to begin by celebrating that this program and plans have arrived at the council. I look forward to dealing with this eulogy proposal with those who are with me. Environmental and Transport Committee. I'm sorry I missed the history of the highest. Minister, I would have liked to ask her a few questions, but I hope she has time to cross some of the points I would have wanted to ask her about. One of them was whether she saw our most expensive projects, such as a tunnel on The Dolfinghök, take a private job. Similarly, I am concerned about the Vendor Road, whether this project will lead to an increase in cost. Most important, as I read in the news, it is the Western island, where there is no money in the ferry for the next three years. A respectable president. I have a short period of time and I need to go over history fairly quickly. I have quite a number of points, but one of the first things I noticed when I read the plan is that there is no part of a bicycle path. I will suggest that, on the basis of the Commission, it says that other than the root and link road, new teams will come under the terms of Hostage and Walking. I think it fits in really well. It's joints like mini-circuits, fences, Rear Roads, etc. I think we need to try to move our transport system to the point that it's environmentally sustainable and self-sustaining and not only watch electric cars. A vehicle's wheels can be extremely fast and healthy and are especially fast - moving if at all possible. I'd like to before I continue to celebrate because the government has decided to spend $1.8 billion. to focus on important tasks. There are at least four projects, the Haususs Road, the Clear road, the Uxabal Road, and the Caldadal Road, a project that was ready but delayed before, a project that has been accelerated, and I think it's well. At the same time, I'm going to have a slight criticism that this was not part of the proposal we are considering, but I'm going to say that the criticism is trivial in comparison with the positive that we get this money through transport. It's only been discussed with the Sunway. My feelings are a little mixed up. I think the waterway is important, at least it's very heavy because of private cars in the capital area, and especially on the way down to the downtown town and from the center of the afternoon, and I think it could lift something on that road. Similarly, when a private car is not successful, we force people to use other routes, such as public transportation or bicycles. I don't have much time left, so I'm not going to stop this scene anymore. I'd like to say something about docks. They get very little money, and I know it's the group of paint in this program that's going to be the worst out there. Estimates are estimated to be less than 800 million for a national porting campaign in 2015, of which a land island crew has less than 400. This is shocking, especially because there are very many ports in Iceland that are in time, the steel panel is 40 years old or more, and the need for renewal. It is in many places the lifeline of its population and even the only thing preventing the settlement from being classified as fragile. I'm also here to celebrate the fact that we finally have a snowstorm on schedule. Previously, there was a billion snowstorms on budgets. I'm glad there's finally been an earmark of money in the snowstorm. We can see that with increasing tourist currents, especially as the current of tourism is over the year, we need more maintenance for the year. We heard of it during the winter and in the preceding winter, we had to increase our numbers to our most popular tourist destinations. Hellishem too was closed to unusually many days in the winter's journey. Because I refer to Hellishi, I'm happy that this project will be completed in the next two years as well as the gang between Selfos and Homos. If we compare it to the Smokey Way, both roads are tremendously trafficways, we have not had a fatal accident - seven, nine, thirteen - on the Smokey Way since it was doubled. It tells us something, and I think especially about the road between Selephos and Whos making, where there are many extenuating, or demanding home to the towns, where agriculture and slow machines are involved, that it is important that we have good transportation there because, unfortunately, there have become many extremely serious accidents in that brief period. That's why I think it's extremely important. One thing that breaks my heart in the plan is a matter that I've tried to point out a little bit, a single bridge that has a maximum speed of 90. I think it's only a matter of time before there's an accident on a single bridge. If I was a tourist from abroad and was driving on the highways of that country, I wouldn't expect a single broad bridge to be on the road. I don't think the markings of one-breated bridges are good enough. I think there should at least be a sign that says you should slow down. I will fight to reduce the number of single - build bridges, which in recent years have declined too slowly, and especially with malbeds and speeds of 90. We're seeing numbers, so I'm going to witness again to the tourism, and we're driving on our roads all year; buses, rental cars, and others. A respectable president. My time is over, and I will finish my speech with these words.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u92	V.E.G. President. As I said before, you can't go over much in a 10-minute talk plus five minutes. That's why I'm going to use these five minutes to cover history quickly, although I'm going to skip a few areas due to lack of time. I'm gonna take the west side, and it's a pleasure to see in the plan that we're finishing the road from Eiði to Haddock, and then we're going to be making a bit of money for it. Although the cost plan is uncertain, I'm going to agree that it's positive because it's a matter of eternity, the road through the Chets Forest, and I want to state that I'm very pleased with the decision that came the other day, and I'm sure it's good that I'm very pleased with the way Vega works on this, and I'm happy with the way that's done there, where there's little going to Chets Forest. It's not true that we're going through Chets Forest, we're going down to him, and all the counter-improved actions should be so that I don't believe that this is the only way to make peace. It has been found that at the beginning, I wasn't quite aware of my speech, the 1,800 million. K. which the government finally agreed to add to the plan and now put a little more meat on the bone, otherwise it would have been a transport plan for almost nothing, as I told you earlier - they haven't been added here. There may be technical reasons for that. There has been a long history of transport protocols, so I would have had to make a different cycle, so I don't criticize it, but I want to draw attention to the fact that this money is not part of the plan. I'm glad that there's more money available to go through here to fulfill the promise that has been betrayed for the past one or two years, although it's a considerable need to finish the remaining 20 miles, it seems to me that the amount is enough for seven to ten miles. I'm glad you're here. I'd like to mention one more thing and repeat what I said about the Gufldal and the Chets Forest, that it is very important to the south of the West to complete that project and, in effect, to be ashamed of how long this has taken. Then I'm going to head back to the northeast region where I'm from, and I've said before that I've only found it very normal for members of Congress to talk about their territory and to communicate here. You're supposed to be experts in your territory and go through it. It's 200 billion here. K. in the safety of any missing Akureyri operation. For example, the traffic lights are really small enough for you to hardly see them as you grow older, so that the lights hopefully become enlarged and make buds where there is a need for them. But I must also mention this area that it does not mention a silica plant, and it does not mention the chapter between Thord and Bakkafjörður, which is actually bad because it was promised that it was time for that territory. But it falls out here, and I'm sorry. The same could be said of the city soil that has completely returned to 2018, which will give 250 billion. K., and Axe Road is not in. On the other hand, I'd like to celebrate the fact that the bitter end of the Earth is in there and the amount to work in three years to finish the worm section in the area that's the only malaria that remains, if we say that we go through the circle, even though we don't take everything in there. It would have been quite a miracle, and it would have had to have been done long ago, but it is the course of action. There's a choice, priorities, and that's what we've had, but I'm glad this project is inside. A respectable president. I wanted to say this in my five - minute talk, but as I said earlier, it was my opinion that when a Congress resolution on the transportation program finally came up, it should be discussed as soon as possible. Therefore, people are not talking about longer because it is important to get the situation to the environment and transport committees to go through it. But I'd like to reiterate that even though I'm enjoying 1,800 million. K. who finally came in, definitely by a tug, I want to say, at least. Minister of Internal Affairs for a month, that's what resulted in the 1,800 million. K., it's an improvement on top of an extremely small one. There's a lot of other things I would've wanted to talk to a previous one. But now the matter goes to a committee, and hopefully she'll do it really fast, and it'll be a second time. and we'll have more time to discuss this plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u93	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a proposal for a four-year transport programme for 2015-2018 and will be in accordance with transport laws, No. 33/2008. For the next four years, the conclusions to transport should be made in line with the decision-making programme and should be in line with the framework of the transport programme for 2011◯022, where policy and aims are set for all articles of the transport process in the period of the programme. Thank you very much. Ministers for bringing the proposal and transport plan into the council now and that is considered very important, but the fact is, there is a great need for a growing maintenance. In recent years there has been considerable declines in maintenance and building roads, but at the same time, the pressures on the road have increased tremendously with increasing increases in the arrival of tourists. There have been frequent roads, especially where traffic is high, that have caused damage that has not been improved. Of course, powerful infrastructure is the prerequisite for natural functioning of societies and economic systems. Roads, bridges, and tunnels play a prominent role in transport, of course, there are other structures that fit that definition of the concept of infrastructure. The pressures of the transport system are increasing with increasing number of tourists and need to be more effective than with regard to the interests of the people here and the structure of the economy, of course, but how important it is when we watch the trade and especially the travel services. If we are to continue building tourism so that the sector can continue to grow and flourish, transport is of utmost importance in this regard. V.E.G. In his talk, a minister concluded that this plan is realistic and forethought with limited financial resources, such as the highest. The minister stressed, and I agree. But when we look at such a strategy for traffic safety, damage and accident risks, and for increased traffic and maintenance needs, it is important that money is well spent. In particular, I welcome an additional 500 million that will be protected in the main streets of the capital area. The pressures of the road and the roads are normally severe and should be borne in mind, of course, the conditions that the Road provides for the road to the road. It is also important to improve the spread of pressures and to implement plans for the Hafifos Road, the Kiss Road, the Uxabal Road, and the Cold Valley Road, which are very important in the structure. It is road reforms that have been exposed, and I want to be especially happy that the Kiss Passion Road will finally arrive and that funds will be placed in an extremely intense restructuring structure and is, according to the information provided by means of an additional financial announcement, will speed up by one year. [[Up front.]] Of course, this is urgent due to increased traffic pressures resulting from an increase in the number of tourists in which the Key Passes connect the Þingi field to the Hafjörður and West, as well as to the surrounding residents and places. These improvements have been called for for a long time, and this schedule is aimed at completing it by binding to the remaining section of the course. Then I'd like to mention Eaglenes Road, which has been down the road for a long time, but the road that runs in the town of Garville, Kopvogs, and Reykjavík has been on a plan for more than 20 years. During the past few years, there has been tremendous development and expansion in the town of Garða and especially in Kópavogur, in Lindir, Korah, and Hashraf, and in this program, a link between the Lenchian Way and the Fifihvamm Road, of which 320 million is the case. K. estimates for implementation of 2015, 380 million. K. to 2016 and 100 million. K. 2017 to complete this part of the project. What a cause for joy that is! For example, in winter it became evident that this connection has become urgent because the weight of traffic has grown very high and can only be shod, as one day's failure in winter would have shown us where a lot of traffic jams were created, where this piece of roads, if I called it so, would have saved much. So it is urgent that we finish this course that has been planned for such a long time and one of the projects that have had to be delayed for cuts and investments. As I mentioned at the outset, transport and infrastructure are turning around more than just roads. The plan has established ports, air travel, and rebuilding, and the maintenance and maintenance of ports and airports. Here, there have been regular programs for the National Sea of Ireland, as well as discussions at the General Assembly, and there is an entire community that all depends on finding a solution in these matters. I can only stress that the solution is very important to the matter as soon as possible. It takes the most skilled specialists to solve the waterfront's setting, water baptism plans, ferry business, and passenger position. I believe that with the political, administrative, and our most skilled experts, they will be able to complete that case, but it is urgent that this is happening as soon as possible, and in this context, they may have to look to the Shrine and speedy ships, but certainly they have to look at all the possible benefits of the situation. I've specifically mentioned the Key Pass, and Eaglestone Road, but it says in the plan that there are no funds intended to be made on the Dina track. On page 18. 42 of the plan contains a discussion on Sunwater Road, which says, with the permission of a president: ▪ It is not a budget for this project, but it is intended to examine the benefits of making a personal path of swimming. With the transportation and security involved, this is a project that I want to promote. A minister to speed up testing and to see if it is possible to complete or perform them. I appreciate that security is one of the most important factors in examining that project. But the plan has come to the council, and I welcome it, and thank you to the highest degree. Minister. The matter goes on to the committee and comes back to the council, and then we can what? The senators further discussed this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u94	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister also for providing a judicial hearing proposal for a four-year transport program. I'm going to use this opportunity to discuss it in general. I'm not going to go into a lot of its elements, though I don't promise to let it go entirely. I believe that on the whole of transportation, we may first be able to say that there is one factor that we need to set aside more priorities and that is built up, and it is important that we take money elsewhere in order to enter that seminary. To me, it's all about transportation, as this program shows. I am especially busy with transportation in the capital area and in Reykjavík. It is my opinion that all transport is equal, whether traffic, walking, or driving. I don't know why a lot of people think it's a separate thing and they need to be settled. I myself walk, cycle, and drive, and I would like to do so in the safest way, and I can't see why people need to be involved in this. As a matter of fact, it's my job to understand why some people do it. What I think is the focus of the clearance when we make a transport plan is security. In many areas, when it comes to security, we have put special emphasis on reducing the number of sea accidents and flying accidents, and we are well - equipped. There are special research committees that review every accident in order to learn from them and to try to prevent them from happening again, but there are some things we need to do when driving and driving in general, including driving and walking. Then I want to draw attention to again and again that there is a special card that shows how the country has been taken out of every way regarding its security factors. It was after I encouraged the locals to do so. Sturla Böðvarsson's minister to do something called the EuroRAP project, something Ólafur K. Guðmundsson has been precircuiting, but he is widely known for his national interest in fighting for traffic security. Most people have been taken out if not all the roads in the country, and we can see which roads are dangerous and what we can do to reduce the risk of them. Now someone could think that it was all about the drivers, that people were driving carefully, and that is, of course, a major factor. However, in countries that have reached the longest level in traffic safety, it has been shown, and in most countries, the design of workers is extremely important, in this case, the design of automobile workers. When we struggle with the various means of transportation - as we do with the nature of the situation, we represent our own elections, and I see nothing unusual about the fact that representatives of individual regulations in their subsidiary and wills, and then, of course, transport is a major factor - I would be more able to make the way and means of transportation that are not safe, they are hidden from many places. One area that can be said to represent no one, at least there's no one to vote, is our highland. I miss it and worry that we're not discussing highland roads as we should, at least I haven't had much to do with it during the discussion. To me, it's like this, a respectable president: The highland is enormously valuable. It's not material possessions, it's just experience in itself to be in Iceland's highlands. And the experience is that it's in my opinion that most of the things you drive, e.g. about the highlands that they are being driven by a certain kind of road. These are non-remarkable URLs in this context, which give specific experiences. There are voices that we should build the roads in the highlands, that we should just build up and have graved roads. I'm telling you, by then we've really ruined the experience of being in Iceland's highlands. They're juice roads, they're just like those of us who've been drinking juice in Africa. There are roads in the highlands, e.g. It's not the same experience. It's a completely different matter. We're supposed to have this experience with the highlands and we're supposed to decide which territory we're going to protect from the built - up roads. We have to do it right away because time goes by fast and if we're going to build a road, and I have a feeling it's done so quietly rather than consciously, we'll destroy certain factors. I'll mention now, for example. In terms of the government's plans for the development of transport workers, Uxabal and Kaldadal are being referred to. True, there is a little other history in this regard so that making and connecting with these areas will result in a great deal of improvement in our tourism. I'm not necessarily saying we can't go into construction on that road, I'm not saying that, I'm just saying we have to look at this whole thing and we have to decide what we're going to do in these areas. For example, an explosion in my mind is a road that cannot be built at all or asphyxia, though it may not have a power pattern built there. There would be a lot of environmental disaster that I want to do what I can to prevent. A respectable president. Back to the capital. We don't even have a road model from the capital area, at least Not the last time I knew. We need to get safer traffic in the capital area, clear traffic, better use of the big traffic. We who live in the upper neighborhood of the city know what conditions are like each day. Emphasis on the current city council in Reykjavík must be avoided by newcomers in Reykjavík. It's not always about large traffic vessels or the wrong corners, it's just about a little common sense. At the time of the biggest traffic, we can, for example, drive. Release the left turn at specific sites, just for example. We can also plan for the public workplace so that not everyone is going to work at the same time. It is called common sense. We need to make better use of the big traffic vessels. There's going to be a lot of accidents in Reykjavík, not in the capital area. 43% of traffic accidents will be in Reykjavík, not in the capital area, just in Reykjavík. And this can be avoided by taking out the most important accidents and areas in an organized way. I'm the highest. Minister to take advantage of that. A traffic in Reykjavík is important. She means everything to everybody. It's important to all the people of the country. And that there are 43% of accidents on the road in Reykjavík, because we are not doing our job. I know it's the highest. A minister is very much in agreement with me. She's fighting the major part of Reykjavík when it comes to this. Of course, it's very special and very bad for me and S.R.S.S.S.A. that our elected representatives in the mayor are not more concerned with our interests than they are. I keep it anywhere, any time, and the contract that was made not to have any new projects in Reykjavík for ten years is amazing, absolutely incredible. The most amazing thing is that it was the city of Reykjavík that put it to work and agreed to do so. The breakway. I agree that it's supposed to be a priority, but it's hard to get into that process I think unless we also organize the best area in the capital area for the population. Then I'm talking about Ginginginganes, and then we should take an unbiased discussion about whether we should use Weey as well. But, at the very least, Gedingdanes are absolutely the most beautiful construction site in the city and in the capital area, I make it all right. A respectable president. We must also be aware that now we are getting this immense number of tourists to us, who are excellent, and we need to consider. This will require a great deal of the construction of roads and transport workers. There are two factors: either we pay with taxes or we pay for them. Like other nations, we should view it as normal and probably the people who drive on the roads and make special use of the roads. It is not particularly fair for those who do not have to pay it through their taxes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u95	A respectable president. Here we will discuss a four - year transport program for 2015◯2018. Transport is the big thing. It affects everyone. They are the largest community-based issues, major health services in the country, major issues in the development of education, major issues in the work structure, and so on. Better transport is the interests of most Icelanders and certainly all members of Congress. Thus, all of us would have wanted to see more funding for transportation now as before. I'm really happy to get the plan forward at the end of the council now rather than postpone it until the fall, so I don't think that there's much more to ask on the travels than when a travel program will come. I can agree with many factors that have already been presented in this discussion, and I have a full understanding of the need for international roads, but I will here, especially on the factors facing the region that I know best, East and Northern Island. First, I want to celebrate the increased contributions made to the snowstorm that a minister entered earlier. It has been completely unacceptable in recent years to see donations being made to pay for snow mists. Similarly, I rejoice over the big hierarchies that are now taking place in the near future. I would especially like to refer to the Environment and Transport Committee to carefully review the amount of funding needed for research to save the environment to ensure that, at first, the necessary information is available to make decisions about implementation. I call attention to all too many miles of unmaligned roads where I know, on the Shire, in the Netherlands and the Eyjafjörður, not to mention unaligned territory roads. There are four unalterable roadblocks that I want to take out of parentheses in particular. It is highway 1 at the bitter end of the plan and must not be dragged once more. Happily, there are not many urban areas that are not connected on one side with asphalted roads, but one of those in the urban area. City soil is not on schedule until 2018. I would like to emphasize that this project will also not be delayed. Then there is the Valley of Bárdur, and the route between Backfjord and Thors, one of the round connections we need. There the path to the chapters is very poor and small unaltered pieces are really dangerous. Today, rural areas continue to stand on road trawleric roads, all summer in constant dust from increasing tourist flows. There must be a way to make things right with a very small cost. Then I'd like to call attention and direct it to the Environment and Transport Committee to review especially the bridge over the glacier in the Multitude at The Beasts, on schedule, while the eruption of the Holutun took into account. This work needs to be reevaluated and redesigned. This is a project that needs to be reviewed in the light of the changed circumstances. Similarly, big bridges are waiting on the Laguna Bridge and Shiver River, which in itself are not on schedule. Public transport is the highly developed task that has been reviewed in the past year after the European Union adopted a special license. The project has followed a number of growth pains and is acting misdirected by conditions in parts of the country, such as distances, the complexity of the road system, the number of passengers, and the way they were organized at the outset. There is also one suggestion that is needed to link public transportation to the entire circle. My opinion is that during the development of this project, valuable experience and knowledge have already been collected that are vital for the future. Therefore, I would like to encourage the development and development of public transport, and the flight needs to be more closely connected to the public transport. Then finally there's one thing I'd like to come in on. Well, that's how it is for the decision to deduct the local road from a road record. This is required in Regulation 774/2010. I think that in the context of a road plan discussion it is very important for the environment and transport committee to review this matter because while the roads are laid down for owner, employment, or housing, they often serve more.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u96	A respectable president. I'd like to start by celebrating because we've got a transport plan and we can start talking about it here. Many are to rejoice in it. I have the honor of being in bed. The Environment and Transport Committee will discuss the situation, so I'm not going to pick up special projects. However, I would like to introduce some aspects of the transport program that I consider to be extremely important. There are two things about my relationship plan, one on the other hand, a broad safety issue, especially traffic security, and also security for the communities in the country, and one on the other, community structure issues. Each year, we spend 24 billion on transportation, according to this schedule. The cost of traffic accidents has been calculated each year, accounting for about 30 billion. If we put it into context, I think we have to prioritize and put more money on transportation to reduce the high cost of accidents we are facing. That way, we will save money for the future, but most of all, we will greatly improve the living conditions of the country, which I believe are important. So I want to see if we can have these traffic security issues a little more visible in the schedule and make them more specific. For example, it might be possible to move the decision - making process to a country where we can improve traffic security. We now have a very good, successful, safe transport programme, which has brought great success and has brought traffic security to a whole new level. If we took it further and built a subcommittee that worked on the security at home in the districts and set our priorities, the results would be measured by a reduction in the number of accidents. We could then make it clear how much money we spent on it. Of course, we will then need to continue to be socially built to secure the settlements of our country. This is one of the most important things to discuss, and we will discuss it further on the committee. I'd like to mention one thing about traffic security and how to reduce the number of accidents by transportation. Since the 2nd of a Smokey Way was introduced into a transport program, no one has died in a car accident, but at the same time 14 people died on the Southland road and the Westland roads. We would have saved 14 lives if we had put extra money at that time in the West and Southland roads. This is very important. Also, I would like to mention a statement here because I've been talking about a social agenda. Refuses are not on everybody's lips, and most of the money in them is being carried out below sea level, so it is not obvious how important they are. Many reject, and they need much maintenance. Seas are basically the lifebloods of many rural communities. If the use of the harbors is not guaranteed to ensure that a ship can sail into the harbor and dock, the entire workplace or almost all working in whole communities, as we can see at the Cape of the Hornfjord now that the harbor is closing for ocean ships and smaller ships. Right at the end, I'd like to mention the flying issues as well. That's where I think we need to find a new route. Today, for some reason, there is no new assignment in the country's airport despite a growing number of tourists. The number of tourists on the international level has increased to a million, yet the number of passengers does not increase. I think we need to find ways to bring the flight crews to the countryside, the tourism and private services that will market the international flights and find ways to improve the use of passengers and increase the number of passengers, and thus we can improve the cost of operating. The three aspects of communication, traffic, rejection, and flying are all of which are of great importance to our country's communities and security. It is our job to prioritize our resources so that all of this can grow and the prosperity of this community will be greatly increased.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u97	Mr. President. I believe there is every reason for me to be a fourth. Smoke. ..................................................... First, I'd like to wish for the highest. Yet, the government has succeeded in implementing a transport plan, although it may be symbolic that this is done on the previous day of the Council's final day. But better is late than never. I'm also glad it's placed at 1,850 million. K. for transport this year, and also wishes the highest. Minister to congratulations on that. She could not be sent in for the very first year of her choice, so I am pleased with her persistence to have beat it out of the government. Also, the road can be congratulated on receiving more money, and no one knows better than the one who has served in many governments and who has ruled with severity. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, that the road will be very much from every dollar and every one of the institutions that are as good with money. Of course, I could be happy as a public senator of this 1,850 million. K. will make 500 transportation improvements in Reykjavík. As former travel minister, I can be incredibly joyful of the 1,350 million. K. Take a tourist road. But there are transportation improvements on the way from Reykjavík and in Aarneshrepps that I love most. There's never been a discussion about a transport plan here without my attention. Because I am now especially positive on this first day of spring, which has embraced Reykjavík, I would also like to say that I am pleased with the progress regarding the improved roads there. There is reason to rejoice that this year 200 million are being set. K. ... intheBernarfjörnneckandgoodif they're not 450 next year. What marvelous news this is for us who have dealt with the voice of those who live in Aarnesma, when it comes to transportation! I've been giving talks about this year after year, showing how relieved I am that it's not until now as good men and prospective ministers have taken steps to make proper road repairs. This is very positive and good for those who use the road, but it must not be stopped here. The hunting neck's left. You have to put money in him to get him to the point where he's at least these roads can be taken along. [[Up front.]] Now, I believe right now that I give a little parable of the council's dealings with the Yearneshrepp, let's not recall the excellent proposal that I and a few more members of the council moved at the time, I'm leading the current state of state. The president of the Einar Kristinn Guðfinnsson, who was approved for special interest in the national government of Aarnesfjörður. During the winter season, U.S. schoolchildren planned to come and visit the council, visiting the council, as many schoolchildren do every winter. The whole school was going to come, six children, with the teachers. I think it was in a third storm that they made it south because they never got over the hunting neck, it was always impossible. Only one who has been in such a condition cannot and who has been able to launch under the shelter of the Road Building knows what it is to be forced and incarcerated and incarcerated in that place. This is the basis of the country's worst transportation. It's more difficult to travel during the Yearneshrepp than we are with Gímney. So I say we can't forget that Iceland is such a country that if people want to live on the outside, let's just make it possible. I'm not going to go deeper into this case, but I wanted to emphasize it to the highest. Minister, to all the fine senators interested in transportation and the road development, this is the next step, there must be an improvement in this most difficult chapter of the Aarneshrepp.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-29-115.u98	V.E.G. President. I was especially happy to be able to arrange transportation on the beach and to share that view with others. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aussie, it's an area that needs to be looked into, that's why a bear's neck is in a transport program, I'm really happy about it, and I hope he continues to enjoy the approval of members of the Parliament when this case is discussed. And since then. A senator named Hunting Throat, which is true to say, is short of money in the next few years; however, money is expected in 2018, 200 million. K., so that one will be expected for a long time, but it is important that this occur. [[Up front.]] I'd like to review some of the points during the discussion, and I was asked that, even if I can't go through every detail, I'm going to go over a few things. First of all, air traffic and airport maintenance. Then I can confirm that at the moment. paritaprevir Kristján Möller of the budget taken care of last year's budget is being provided for maintenance at airports. However, there is also the need to do much better, that is, of course, my mission as Minister of the Party, and I admit that there is a need to be done much better, and it is quite clear that much more money is needed to be maintained at airports in the next few years. I mentioned in my talk that we would see to it that you need 1. A million. K. It's obvious that there's more to it than that, and I have to work hard to get more money from it, and I know why. The senators will no doubt help us in this regard. It is proper to note that this program is reviewed in one year, so we go back to numbers, etc. This proposal for transportation is based on the fact that it is actually acting for the third time because it was unable to be handed over for two times, now that I'm going to say nothing more than that, and I've already apologized for the fact that it is very, of course, extremely late; there is no doubt about it, but at least it is here to be discussed. Because of the 1,800 million. K. which have been prepared here to be discussed, I would like to make it clear that all transport discussions and transport planning decisions and financial resources are being made on the basis of a very specific process. There is a great process of consultation with rural authorities, with national bodies, that occurs within the institutions of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and based on laws that have been previously implemented on the basis of previous transport plans. Transport plans aren't something that falls out of the sky one day, they're years of work. For example, it takes many years for the road to prepare, so none of this is something that a single adviser can think of in his final meters. Therefore, I would like to make it clear that the projects mentioned in connection with these 1,800 million are all the projects that were planned. They're just in a hurry. New projects are being rushed, not invented, and put on schedule as some special hobby of the minister. This is to speed up assignments in an effort to increase the number of issues involved. We all agree that there we need more money, but I think it is important that at least people can agree that it was better than not being able to get this extra money, though I would like to see much more money there. Yet, it is 112 billion over a four - year period, and it is our goal to set priorities for the projects we believe to be the most important. I'd like to name it as a dog. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall mentioned a vision involving traffic security. It should then be noted that such policies are being developed and found in a 12-year schedule where we set out more targeted ideas than in the four-year plan of action. I share with him the opinion that has been expressed by more members of the council, now the last time. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - god of Þór Þórðarson, that transport security is fundamental. That is especially why I believe that we need to be very careful with the maintenance and services of the country's road system, whether we look at urban areas in the capital area or other urban areas, to the scattered settlements, or to the most scattered settlements on the northwest and northeast corner. All this matters. I'd like to come in with something like that, too. paritaprevir In his talk, J. Sigfússon's Stegirdur mentioned that in many parts of the country, malaria was a common marauder. In fact, on Route 1 there are still unalterable chapters, e.g. At the bottom of the bitter fields, we know that there has been a lot of debate over the circumstances and how to do so. Of course, we hope that we will be seeing the land in it. But then there's blanks here and wherever we need to put more focus on. That's why I think it's important when we look further into the future that we try to look at this maintenance - I think it really is part of a maintenance process - as a priority as we realize that some major projects are needed. Hv. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson mentioned the safety of sailors and specifically mentioned the small boats in this regard. I think we're always trying to do what we can to make the security more secure, and that's where it goes naturally with other cases at the State Department scene, where we look especially to the safety of sailors. So it's all in the process. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir of the importance of research. It is often better to prepare things better and take longer time on it and to keep a safer area under your feet when going to work. I couldn't agree more. A senator when it comes to this. In the field of transportation, money has always been used for research. The money is that I know very well and well spent. For example, in this program, we have a specific research fund for the sake of a flock of land, as we have seen in this article. It is important that these studies continue to be conducted, which is important for the Eastern nations. However, it has to be said that now that the 20 billion projects are being carried out and that prior to they are being organized, both areas in general and other projects needed to be considered. Hv. paritaprevir Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir and, as a matter of fact, why not? paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon cited suggestions on the cost of domestic flights. It is true that this process of transportation does not involve anything specific in this regard. Of course, this form of spells, if we can put it that way, are the main sources of financial custody, but we have continued the conversation that began following a report by the Committee. It has to be said that there were a lot of people who were very surprised to learn how little they were able to reduce the spells, but of course it all matters. This was a question of the strengthened domestic flight, if it wasn't available to offer it out. So it is to say that we extended our strengthened flight to the end of the year. This was one of the work that took place rather early after I sat down in the Ministry of Internal Affairs, and it had to start taking a stand for it, and it was considered more convenient to plan for a New Year's Eve. I expect that will work out that way, and we will see at the end of the year that everything will be presented. Then, on the way, you need to examine the points below and whether everything is right or if you need to add others, etc. I have no news about it on this day other than the fact that it is assumed that it will all start. This has been the case with Diving and Transporting in the capital area. I want to reiterate my view that it's important for me to see the whole language. Surely, we can agree that it is good to increase our choices, and there is a greater choice of vehicles, whether they want to use their feet to get in between, walk, or cycle, or whether they want to drive. All these things need to be able to work together. We shouldn't put it up against each other. We need this to work together. For example, we need to be careful that there is also a tremendous need for our neighboring communities to make a swimming path. She is expected on an organization. I believe that there are probably more aspects of transport that are considered possible access to a private person that can be considered. Although this program does not contain a location, it has been discussed in recent years. Let us note that if we look at such the biggest transport projects, it is the phallic Hagfjörður tunnel that may have proved itself to be a success of personal success.
