ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u1	I'm going to be remembered by a former general. It was reported this morning that Ásgeir Hannes Eiríksson, a former U.S. Marshal, had died at Landakots Hospital. Saturday, February 14, after a chronic illness at 67 years of age. Ásgeir Hannes Eiríksson's son was born in Reykjavík on May 19, 1947. His parents were Eiríkur Ketilsson, a major businessman, and Dr. Sigríður Ásgeirsdóttir. Ásgeir Hannes concluded a test at the University of Versailles in 1967, and a test from Iceland's Hotel and Food School in 1971. From that many trades in Reykjavík and the restaurant business, he ran his sausage car on a Lullar Square. Ásgeir Hannes already became an active participant at a young age in various union organizations in the capital, especially those of charity and organizations that supported those whose feet are in the community. His business in downtown Reykjavík, as well as his participation in national language, made him a prominent citizen. He wrote a number of articles in newspapers, was editor of a newspaper, and wrote some books on his affairs. When Albert Guðmundsson, former minister, appeared as the founder and representative of the City Party in 1987, Ásgeir Hannes joined him in appointing a second deputy seat on the list of the party after the total elections in April that year. In the fall of 1988, he took up such a seat at the General Assembly. Early in 1989 and shortly after the unannounced death of the 1st deputy Guðmundsson of Benedikt Bogason Bogaz, Ásgeir Hannes Eiríksson of the Council of June 30, 1989, became a permanent member of the council until the election of 1991, a total of three Parliaments. Ásgeir Hannes Eiríksson's son was a remarkable man, had keen opinions, and did not always go crowded paths. He was an noted novelist, fun, and witty answers that many still have in a hurry. At the level of the council, he was dynamic and took note of the time he sat here, being well - versed in many matters, and being well - equipped with propaganda and cooperation. He spoke many matters of the assembly, and at all times he spoke in the council's office, when he handed over his case to register there, that one case per day would restore his temper. The warmth of Ásgeir Hannes and the spirit of helpfulness are on the minds of many of his traveling companions, now that he says. I ask a council to remember Ásgeir Hannes, son of Eiríksson, by rising from their seats. - [[Senators rose from seats.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u2	V.E.G. President. I want to do the high school position, especially in the country, to talk and talk about it, and the complete uncertainty that you hear from school champions and those who work there. This was made very clear in recent district weeks, which gives you the opportunity to visit in the districts. I've mentioned it here in the budget that after a long time, we got a beautiful white book from the highest. Secretary of education. Sadly, it has not been discussed, either in the committees of the council or in the public discussion, but in the decision to operate a minister, a decrease in the number of students who divide by hundreds, of 800,900 students who report that there will be no payment for students 25 years of age and older in book studies. At the same time, schools are made up of programs aimed at shortening studies to the student's test and preparing presupposes without being aware of how to conduct trade and so forth. They complain a great deal about this uncertainty, and no one knows where it is determined, whether schools will be reduced, whether they will not unite schools that have been in the air, and so on. When a letter I had an opportunity to look at was sent to a high school principal, it was about to cross - back. The headline is: a review of a number of courses due to students in the field and ADL services. The schools, in fact, are accused of using the counterfeits to obtain a higher payment on such students, of being reimbursed in 2014 with the consequences and subsequent review of how this is being done. Let it be noted that while it is a matter of view, it is totally unacceptable to threaten schools because money money will be reimbursed and the school must respond by further cuts this year if an additional balance occurs in that year, i.e. in 2014. I trust this school will be guarded by a body of Congress, in effect following the regional policy proclaimed by that government. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u3	A respectable president. I'd like to make the chicken business a topic. As a nation, we are faced with 45 bargains running out in a few days, February 28. Sadly, though, the view of employment is not well seen in the statement that everything is going down if the lowest wage goes up. This does not mean, though, that those who have this lowest wage in the community do not intend to follow it through with conflicts, despite being in these low - level stages. Of course, a person is wondering where the government is coming from. For example, rural society has been paying rather badly for many other things. The head of the BSRB has said that a very powerful low - paying policy is being taken from the local community. We know, though, that what has affected most today is an increase in the food tax that people are experiencing and talking to a person, in this ideal week. It is also the change in income taxes and the plans that have been made, the housing issues that are upset, and nothing is yet happening, and the minister says it takes a lot longer than she would have anticipated, that is the patient fee, etc. That can be counted for a long time. All of this has made people ready to go through hard times. It doesn't accept the fact that we're being told, "Here's where everything goes, and it's gonna be impossible if the lowest pay goes up. At the same time, big business between managers and managers pays high wages and profits are taken from articles such as fishing and other resources we own.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u4	A respectable president. In our neighboring lands, tragic events continue. Last night, thousands of Dana gathered in Copenhagen to protest the killing of innocent civilians last weekend. Iceland's representatives were there, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the mayor of Reykjavík, and they were very effective. Last weekend, innocent civilians and policemen were killed and wounded in an attack in Copenhagen, our old capital, where hundreds of Icelanders march every day. The murder was protesting the values of freedom and law, and now the murderer's fellow believers declare his support. In our neighboring countries, we have an open discussion about the dangers of free worlds and societies as a result of increasing attacks on individuals and any sort of extreme groups. In this country, no such discussion will take place, and the question is, How long will we give attention to a discussion of the security of the people? There's something different around here. Those who call attention to the danger of our neighbors are being shot down and raised on the social talk that will never get to the point of discussing the subject. A respectable president. Freedom of speech seems to be tantamount, but it often seems that it is only for the power of the power. Thank you very much. Ólöfu Nordal Minister for starting the discussion on whether or not to adopt premeditated research clearances in this country. Consider the community discussion of the threat in our neighboring countries. We can't risk her not coming here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u5	Mr. President. Recently, there has been some debate in the community about the control of fishing. It has been observed that due to lack of financial resources, a corrosion centre may misapproach the needs of study of the hairy stock. The basis for the responsible use of fish plants and economics that the Icelandic fishing system is aimed at ensuring careful research on the condition of fish stocks. If we don't secure it, we'll save the island, throwing the crown. I think the main objective of fishing must be to leave the slightest doubt that the fish stocks are owned by the public in the country. The aim then must be to ensure that the fish stocks make good money for the public. In order to succeed, construction and seamen need to have safe working environments and sufficient access to business planning and development and to be able to offer good housing to employees. The important thing is that we make sure that the owner of the resource, the nation, gets a fair part of the fishery and that it will be used for community building and improved biographies. V.E.G. President. Of course, it is a matter of righteousness that people living in a less traditional sealand will be helped to restore new and sustainable support to the economy. It is reasonable that a part of the profit that comes from a practical sea route will run out on such projects. But don't we need to find ways that are more efficient and effective than assigning settlements year after year? I feel like we're hacking there in the same way. Is it not possible to form what has been called a settlement by offering it up and letting that money flow to relevant communities? Does this not help the inhabitants to develop a wide range of job structure according to their needs and wishes? Would that not also be a more democratic and practical way of managing the quality of the government? We must also look in this context so that there has already been a lot of technical development in fishing and processing. More than ever before, they will need fewer hands. This development will continue. This gives us an opportunity to reduce the cost of fishing and processing, thus increasing the cost of employment use.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u6	A respectable president. There's a lot of things that can access the council table that's important to us. It is no less important for us to understand the subject of society, past and present. Thus, recently this senator's funt of an interesting radio broadcast by Gunnar the son of Benediktsson, poet, and national age. In this business, which bears the title, how do we handle our money, including, by permission of the President: ▪ Iceland and I seem to have limited contempt and lack of concern with our resources as soon as we have earned ourselves out of extreme distress. Let us realize that in this matter it is a clean, uncivilized matter. Some may feel that this attitude is unnatural; because of the plight of the centuries, we should have learned to be careful and useful in our secular quality, which is the very reason for our carelessness. We came so suddenly and unexpectedly out of our misery that in a few years it will drift away, becoming an ugly dream that we may try to forget. This radio message was delivered on August 29, 1948, but the root theme might as well have appeared yesterday. There is not enough to be done here in these sales and much to discuss, but to many, the extras often become extensive in our discussion. I miss a deeper discussion about the basics and the big picture at the General Assembly. Guð knows that there is a great deal of interest in them and that there is a breakdown in society. I don't know the best way this could be, but I'm telling you how much it's going to be. I could use some.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u7	V.E.G. President. Over and over again there are polls on the entrance into Iceland in the EU. It seems that no matter what organization the question is asked, the majority are opposed. This morning the results of the latest study of this material were published. It shows that nearly half of the population opposes Iceland's involvement in the European Union. 49.1% of respondents said they were opposed to the entry of the EU. 32.8% claimed to be in favor, but 18.1% of respondents did not approve or oppose entry. The study also shows that there is no major difference between the inhabitants of the capital area and the country's territory, but it claims that 42% of the smokers are opposed, 45% of the capital's neighbors are opposed, and the difference is so much greater in other rural areas, where 59% of its population is opposed to EU involvement than 21% in favour. There has also been considerable changes in the position of the employment drivers to the euro, but last year 57% said it was to be adopted in Iceland by Member States, but now only 39% in that opinion, and about 40% are opposed, while last year it was 28%. A respectable president. I think it's time we finish this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u8	Madam President. I'd like to have a place to say. paritaprevir Einar Kristinn Guðfinnsson. It is now moving toward completion of the Vestísavík 60 between Eiðis in Valtarfjörður and the Þversá, in Copenhagen, where it is a major source of transport. The other day, we council members of the left green tried it for a district week when we drove that way to Patrek's ground. That project began during the last terms and was spent for 4 billion in the middle of an economic crisis. It is now two years from the start of the current government, and there is no evidence for continued construction of the Westfjords Road 60 and a new line in the Gufu Valley. There is still no question about what new projects will take place on the road. It was a major cutoff, as we know about transport in the last budget, and the priority for the Minister of the Interior and the contribution of a new transport plan is still to be expected. That's why I want to ask you why. paritaprevir Einar Kristinn son of Guðfinnsson, who is concerned with these matters, how he feels about this great slow process and cutdown to the road that appeared in the last budget and whether he still feels the same way as he was when he made a suggestion to set special roads on the Vestfjord 60, i.e. from the lost, through the forest of Chets and by Melanes in the Calanes, whether or not he thinks he is going the way and what he believes is going, that there can be at least some chapters that are not disputed like the Tartwood road line. I'd like to know if the Senator feels the same way he was during his last term on the legal procedure in these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u9	A respectable president. The road to the 60 Westfarway via the Gufudal Squadron, i.e. From the village to the Calanes, it's the greatest road project in Iceland. It is the most important thing, and it is, in the opinion of the present government. In fact, I think it's a parapolitic support. Ex-fiancé. I.A. Minister set up a working group, including with the arrival of the local people, but also with the participation and careful consultation of members of the Northwestern District, who worked to map the benefits of the situation. The case was handled in a very good way with us, and the conclusion of this group was that it was wise to look for ways to repeat the case as it is currently, i.e. looking for ways to measure the material benefits that the road has provided in the western village of the village, about the area that is often taught in the Tart forest, and then, under the subjugation of Gufjörfjörður and the Deepfjords, as well as the Fishlands. This is, in my opinion, a very reasonable approach. The conclusion of this matter should be possible right before spring. To me, it is long ago clear that the matter is not about and has not been about nature protection questions. In some cases today, when the road has actually designed roads that have negligible impact on the vegetation in that area, roadmaking has also pointed out that the forest concentration can be multiplied in the region as a kind of counterweight action against the inevitable projects in this area. The way we agree that this recurrence would be done, of course, does not rule out any direct legislation if necessary. So my position on that matter is completely unchanged. However, I agree that this is the way we all agreed on it last year, to re-vise the matter, so that new medications will be taken into account in the light of changing circumstances.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u10	V.E.G. President. Recently, here in the General's symposium, a number of cases have been put to death by the dissatisfaction of the store in returning favorable external conditions to prices. Among other things, the sponsorship of the crown on the next loss has been shown not to be what should be, and there has also been a lack of ability to return a newly paid price to sugar. Advertisers have talked a lot about reducing agricultural prices in Iceland by reducing the price of agricultural products. As a result, I have been especially interested in the fact that when opportunities have taken place lately, the store has not used it for some reason. Last year, the state dropped prices and amplitude on cattle's products by 2/3. At the same time, global market prices in the world and cattle fields dropped, but in Iceland prices increased by 15%, an increase of 15%. You wonder, " Where does this rise lie? ' What are its foundations, or why did this happen? The day before yesterday, the chairman of pig farmers' society came forward and said that recently, and not just recently, but for two times, both last year and now, the price of products had fallen to pig farmers. But according to prices scan, the price of store pork has increased at the same time. You must ask yourself, " Why does this happen over and over again, and why does the store not take its place in a more favorable way to consumers? ' [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u11	Madam President. I'd like to make a subject for special prosecutors and the financial and work conditions of that office and the prosecution. I assume that recent and decisive court decisions in what is called the Al Thani case have destroyed doubts that seemed to have been the right and duty of spending money researching the major issues that have been linked here to the collapse and after events follow them through the judiciary system. You can't argue with the judge anymore, and the judge is Iceland's Supreme Court. He has confirmed that it became serious things that were reason to be examined and followed through the legal system. Nevertheless, the office of a special prosecutor in the last two funds has been so severe. The budget of the last year and this year is set up under very narrow and progressive financial limits that have led to the resigning of experienced policemen and investigators and the opportunities of the office to follow these big issues through the judicial system and/or to investigate new issues, to end the progress of those who are walking, is limited. It is in everyone's interest that such a thing does not happen, including the defendants who arrive at a later conclusion in their case. I think this is very bad, and the conclusion now that shows how large and serious events became true in the leading of the crash, and in this regard, we should be moved to reexamine our minds on that subject. Madam President. Therefore, I would like to challenge the General Fundament Committee to bring the office of special prosecutors to him and after the incident of the prosecution also, reviewing these organizations how they look at them and supply to the council, if necessary, an increase in funding for them is needed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u12	A respectable president. I agree with what. The last senator. There's been a tight squeeze in the office of special prosecutors, and not only to that office, but also to the Contestance Control. Investment to the office of the tax investigator has also fallen. It is important that the government ceases to impose laws in the country and not unsettling the carpet from a special prosecutor in a final centenarian investigation, not only for the sake of the research but also for its suspects. Unfortunately, many studies have been going on for far too long. I also call for the highest. The secretary of finance is coming into the council with a bill that is driving the head of the IRS to base unambiguous legal requirements on data obtained on the tax industry. Brins the Brynjar of Níelsson, a member of the Independence Party, has rightly pointed out that 263 C.E. The penalties may damage parishes based on data that were thus purchased. This matter has been under discussion for a year at the council, and I'm surprised to hear it. The secretary of finance has not yet come in here with a case to ensure that there is a clear and clear basis for building such evidence. I also call for a secretary of finance to come in here with funds not only to the purchases but also to the tax investigator so that he can recruit employees to process the data the tax investigator has called. There is a statement, I think, from all categories of the government opposition, that she will not have the intention of paying such matters. So there is nothing to wait for the highest. - Bjarni. - Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, He's just gonna have to bring the bills on the budget, on the employees and on the clear legal clearances to collect the data from the tax panels into this council and they're going to readily be taken care of here through its committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u13	A respectable president. There are five basic theories on the purpose of punishment, such as prison punishment and fines: First of all, the safety of society, secondly it is the subspecies, third, damage, fourth degree revenge, and fifth degree reform, i.e. acting in a way that makes a person less likely to break free in the future. When an entire community decides to punish an individual, it is important that the objective be clear. Among other things, pacification includes the provision for work and study within prison and some kind of assistance to stay on course after retirement. That must be the most important goal. Sadly, a desire for revenge is too often controlled by the discussion of prison matters. Some may feel that the ideas of reform are of some kind of albino in behalf of people who do not deserve it. But it isn't. More crime is not only a cause of bone damage but also a threat to civil rights in that with increasing crime, more pressure on public surveillance, extensive research warrants, severe penalties, and even lower proof loads, or at all, people are calling for such things. Thus, a prisoner's best condition is not only important in reducing crime in general, which should be obvious but also for the protection and promotion of public rights to governmental authorities. It's the common advantage of all of us that the prison system works. The punishment itself should be, not an independent goal, but a goal of punishment. Therefore, I suggest that correction be guided by the decision made by the General in the future beyond what has been done. Betrayal, reform and rejuvenation. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u14	President. A statement by the highest degree. The secretary of the environment to soften the translation of the European Commission's initiatives has provoked the leading opponents of the forwarding party to slumber. Who is that opponent? Yes, that's the debate, but it's restarted, and it hasn't been a favor to the advance team for the past losses. Of course, this is not because their ideas, their words, and their actions are not on the platform at nine out of ten Icelanders, but because of just how mateless the discussion is. I can see that the movers have become frustrated in the EEA. They are opposed to the European Union, and they base their view of affection for the European Union. I've recently gone up to some votes when votes are paid for EEA affairs here at the council to look at the faces of this publication of the Icelandic Reich while they vote with legislation written in Brussels by the European Union without the introduction of Icelandic Parliaments there. It is far too bad to say that they are in the front of people like those who go through hail, at least during a minor explanation. Then they continue in their sincere faith and complete denial that they are defending the sovereignty here. So I challenge them to take their stand and to follow their convictions and to present their case here on the basis of the change in European Union directives, on the seabed, or has the debate carried them over? I say for myself and for my party: let's keep the capital in Europe. Join us in molding the common laws of our world. Let's join the European Union.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u15	President. The discussion this week, before the district week, was a matter of choice, and it could be heard at the top. Secretary of finance that he felt that there was little way for him to increase the salary of people in the lowest remunerations without spreading the increase over the entire pay system. Once again, he and the government are dropping the responsibility for the economic stability of employees in public markets. That's what I said. A minister shortly after an agreement with doctors on gross raises and even signed government declarations and doctors, not governments and health professionals, but governments and doctors, on the structure of the health system. The pay contracts with doctors would have been nearly to agree with them about the change in health - care professions. You will see that the change in labor today takes a lot of money. Prominents of the Society of Employment agree with the highest degree. Secretary of finance and say that it is not possible to pay public pay which is close to being comparable to pay in other parts of the North countries because the company's products are less than that. This is long established as to the link between long hours of work and production. The longer the day of work, the less the workers produce. Is it not true that those who run the companies attack the root of the problem and pay a day's wage that people can survive? Then there is the best chance that production will increase and that everyone will benefit, paymen and companies. A respectable president. The government and the executives need to think outside the box or anything will ever change around here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u16	V.E.G. President. To celebrate the debates of the day. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur here is to remind us that as we examine the sovereignty and our relations with other countries, there is a fundamental difference, both formal and material, in the situation under the European Economic Area Convention and in the European Union. That is a fundamental difference between formal and material. It is true that by a two - sided agreement based on the European Economic Areas, we need a specific protocol to adapt our legislation to the European Union's rules. However, this happens only if there are legal jobs and opportunities to influence them there, although they have not been used as they should. There is also a specific emergency inhibitor, or brake, that we can use if such interests are involved in paying off. In connection with the European Union, these inhibitors and the introduction of the Lawgiver, however available on the implementation of the EU directives in a different way and on the lower impact level. We can be irritated by it from day to day here at the council, when there are some directives that we feel are of little value to us here. The answer, however, is not to swallow the whole package like a spike. paritaprevir It seems Róbert Marshall wants, to hand over that authority in other areas, as it were. That's not the answer. [[The president calls.]] And the hope of Iceland's great influence at the European table is an illusion. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u17	A respectable president. Here's a motion of change in my name, but it's actually a member of the Committee. It's a phrase change I'm going to say what it means. The bill is about refugees, provided by governments and individuals who live here on leave. The wording will be chosen here, according to the history of the authors, and the same words in the substantial process later on will be This is not a matter of change in the making of the change. Rather, it is a change of word and has no meaning for anything more than that it is better in the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u18	V.E.G. President. I come up here to explain my vote. I'm celebrating this bill that I like to agree with because I think it's extremely important that refugees who come here are in good health. Then, in particular, I welcome the change made so that this law applies also to those who have been granted leave on welfare grounds. I think it's the best thing to do, and that's why I'm especially happy about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u19	A respectable president. I'm on the board of this bill in advance, and I'd like to account for my notice. I believe that if a credit agent is not aware of the requests made by a credit agent in debt, he does not need extensive authority to obtain information from some financial institutions and to place in a day - to - day position. I believe that a credit agent can take good care of his legal role without the existence of this source, much less a day's fine. But I'm not gonna stand in the way of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u20	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize the arrest and delivery of men to and from Iceland for criminal action on the basis of a warrant for arrest. The bill suggests unity in one total law of law No. 12/2010, the arrest and delivery of men between the northern countries for criminal acts. There's a Norwegian warrant and a new law on Iceland's commitments to the so-called European warrant for the arrest, i.e. The European Union and republic of Iceland and the United Kingdom of Norway for reporting between EU Member States and Iceland and Norway signed on June 28, 2006. The General agreed on March 16, 2007, with the government authorized to confirm the earlier agreement between the European Union and the republic of Iceland and the Republic of Norway. This bill suggests a legal adjustment to validate the contract. The bill proposes a new arrangement regarding the surrender of criminals between states, which replaces a traditional expeditation arrangement, based on mutual recognition and trust in each other's legal systems. The need for a new expansive arrangement is, among other things, that crime is at greater length organized and walking cross-borderly. A successful battle against crime in an area where people are free movement requires that one state not install obstacles for investigation or criminal treatment. In recent decades, the need for international cooperation with the investigation and treatment of criminal activities has increased greatly as organized international activities are involved and are expected to be of benefit. Iceland has not been affected by this trend, but official reports over the past few years describe a marked rise in organized crime here. The delivery system set up with the European arrest warrant should be more effective in fighting crime. The new arrangement laid down in the bill is in several basic aspects of life unlike what is now. First, shorter treatment and dispensing intervals apply. Second, in line with the use of wording in the European arrest order, the term "entresurrencing" is replaced by a faster system, which is in line with the use of word in the European arrest order, using the word "surrifender" to be used in its place as a substitute for ◯extrudition. Third, the Ministry of Justice does not agree with the terms of the contract, considering that the prosecution or other governments in the legal system designated to issue a warrant, receive, and care for it, and decide whether or not to receive a release request. As mentioned earlier, this bill is ensuing the contents of the contract on the European arrest warrant. The contract contains regulations for the format and content of the issue requests, their hearings and deadlines for decision making, but it is emphasised that the decision is not to be minimized. It is also recommended that the procedure for dispensing to an individual and within the time frame of delivery should be performed. The rule of double punishment is a principle under the contract which means that a violation that is behind a delivery request must be punished in both countries involved. However, with a specific declaration, it is permitted to abandon this principle regarding certain offenses. The bill assumes that such a statement will be issued on the part of Iceland. Second, the contract assumes the principle that the state hands over its citizens. In Iceland and Norway's negotiations with the European Union, on the entrance of the two countries to the European arrest directive, Iceland's emphasis was that the release of the Icelandic citizen would not be accepted. So the agreement stated that from the above principle, a special declaration might be taken. The bill does not assume that such a statement will be made. This conclusion is based on an overall assessment of Iceland's interests by participation in the European warrant for arrest, but in recent years there has been a growing need for international cooperation with research and criminal treatment. Organizing violations of the product are international and are carried out as benefits are expected. Based on the North American and European development of expedital rules, Iceland's attitude may not deliver its own citizens much of advising energy doubles. In this regard, for example, if it is decided to compromise the principle, other countries are permitted to use mutually in the implementation of an arrest order and to deny the surrender of their citizens to Iceland. Clearly, with such an arrangement, the participation in Iceland will be limited to a considerable extent, as the principle of handing over its citizens is one of the principles of cooperation. There is also the European arrest directive only for cooperation with EU Member States, and it would continue to be prohibited from handing over foreign citizens to countries outside it. Third, the contract is forbidden to deny submission on the grounds of political offenses. It is permitted to state that the above principle applies only to acts of terrorism. As we have seen, the bill contains rules that should facilitate cooperation when it comes to the delivery of humans because of criminal behavior. By uniting into one total law of law No. 12/2010, through a Norwegian warrant, and a new law is responsible for a contract with the European arrest warrants to ensure that cooperation in this field will be more efficient and more effective in fighting crime cross-borderly. V.E.G. President. I have now explained the subject of the bill and suggested that the bill be followed by this discussion referred to why. General and Education Committee and 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u21	Mr. President. Just so I can understand it correctly: the principle of principle, which is the highest. A minister mentioned, is that this is not to be delivered - to be changed - from this principle to another country. Am I right? If so, i.e. if this can be eliminated. Ministers and assistants shaking their heads, it must not be excluded. I understand that if this law is approved, let it not be replaced, Icelandic citizens will not be handed over to other countries on the basis of this law?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u22	A respectable president. A principle is that they will not be delivered on the basis of a warrant, that is, the principle. But it is permitted to make a statement in that case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u23	Mr. President. I can't quite get it right. This law alters the calling of executive practices. Is there, then, something in the law about exposition, that it is permitted to hand over citizens of the United States to other countries, and it will continue to be granted? But within this legal framework, it will not be permitted to use an entitlement to deliver Icelandic citizens to other countries, i.e. on the basis of these laws. In other words, this law does not allow anyone to hand them over to Icelandic citizens - or forgive them, to be given in accordance with these laws, because the supply is taken out and added, it has been changed. But is there anything in the law today that allows expeditation in Icelandic citizens? If the highest. A minister would leave no doubt about it: As the law stands now and this change of law, will it not be permitted to betray and not be permitted to make decisions that make exceptions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u24	A respectable president. It's a bit of a bullshit, I just have to take it, in my speech. However, it is not to be legally passed on to the Icelandic citizen. It's quite done, and it's not being changed. It is very important that you do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u25	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to the legislation on the change in term use in Icelandic legislation. The bill suggests changes in legal requirements in the six legal fields. Then the bill includes disfellowshipping for assistance to the disabled, No. 25/1962, with subsequent change and discontinuation of a law in a Directive of 23 March 1927. The forwarding of this bill is part of a larger project, which is a validation of the UN Convention on the rights of disabled people by Congress No. 43/140 since 2012, on a development program on disabled people's affairs. The General set up the number of projects to be performed by the end of 2014. As to this project, members of the Parliament are well - aware of and are greatly involved in growth. This was a recent discussion, and I would like to state that the Ministry is working to complete this contract. This is a huge project, and this bill here is part of the fact that we're gonna be able to get on with this. Of course, this year, 2014, doesn't work out. We'll see that this takes longer, and I'll ask the Senate to understand that it's a project. I'll probably say later in the spring for a bill about a change in legal law that's also involved. There are other things to be taken care of. On the basis of the projection program, the State Department has led the work of a collaborators with the active presence of the rural communities and the interest groups of disabled persons. The work of the Committee is to coordinate measures to ensure that the legal environment will meet the criteria of the contract and that it can be validated. The Council has reviewed legislation in their own fields and has identified the legal requirements of the contract. The review revealed, among other things, the need to make word changes on the number of rules to conform it to the terms used by the agreement, as well as many material changes in legal requirements. This bill responds to the findings of the colleagues in terms of term use. This suggests that the use of termual use will be adjusted according to the approach the contract involves, that it is not disabled as an individual's definition of approach. An example of this is that instead of the word "feeted, " the people come to be known as" people. " Then it is suggested that the bill be passed from law to law on aid to the disabled, No. 25/1962, with subsequent changes. The laws originally protected the government's patent of alcohol and tobacco to sell matches, but on the basis of them it was permitted to put the mark of the paralytics and the disabled on the matchboxes for the fund. There is no need to save the remains of an out - of - date system in the law, and it is suggested that the law be canceled. At the same time, it is suggested that the bill be removed from Article 3. Directive 23 March 1827, on the authority of bishops to issue an exception to the European Commission directives. It is clear to all who read the law that much time is involved and is not in harmony with the agreement on the rights of disabled people. A respectable president. A bill of the above is part of the legal reforms to take action so that Iceland can validate the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people, as the General has already decided. I think it's important that we make quick and effective efforts to validate the agreement as soon as possible, and I'm willing to suggest that the bill be referred to what. General and Education Committee and 2nd over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u26	A respectable president. It is said that this is part of the validation of the covenant, and it was spoken by a minister, or I understood that it was important that it be done quickly and effectively. There are many who are waiting for us to validate the covenant. I think it's very important. So I'd like to ask if it's the highest. Minister is working on it and when we can expect the contract to be valid, whether it will happen before this council closes in spring.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u27	A respectable president. Yes, as I mentioned in my speech, the Ministry is working very firmly to validate this agreement. There are more laws to change than the one involved here. As I mentioned earlier, it is likely that there will be a bill for a change in legal law. There are other factors to consider. I've said that in 2015 it can be a very important year to get ahead with this project, but I can't guarantee that it will run out this year. I just don't want to make those promises unless I have a better idea. These matters also need to be passed through the council. I emphasize that the speech prescribed for this loss will be successful. It is in the hands of the United States of Congress, however, to set priorities for the issues that are going through. I can't help but stress that this is part of this validation. However, it is in the hands of the council to decide what situation will take place here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u28	A respectable president. I thank you for much and assure the minister that we will handle all these matters and speed them up, or I hope so. I'm just encouraging the Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u29	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you very much. Minister for the presentation of the bill, but it may lead to some disappointment that this is merely making word changes in several places. I just want to ask you a little bit about it. paritaprevir St Brynhildur's Pétursdóttir was asked before, about the validation of the contract. I understand that in real life there is a decision that a contract will be validated, i.e. by altering an individual law, but not as with the child's covenant, shall it not be judged? Rather than being a wealthy individual, is he going to be turned into separate laws and changes in this regard? I realize this takes a little time, of course, but I can see that it's being worked here, and I agree with the words that came out here and it's the highest. Minister to impress on validating the contract, I think it's extremely important. In this context, I would like to ask about the state of affairs that are already under discussion at the council and are at ease. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. There, the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people might have had to seize the opportunity and validate what is being considered. This has been discussed in the Committee, but I don't know exactly how to mention the case, but hopefully it comes to the Ministry. But I'm the highest. A minister to have specific observations on whether to take the opportunity and validate certain laws. Some laws have been pointed out to conflict with the agreement or at least He's gone into trouble, and Iceland's Environment has identified him. The main point, though, may be to determine whether or not there will be any steps to be taken to validate, not validation, and whether a plan will soon come as to what will be done to help.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u30	A respectable president. Yes, I believe we're changing the law here with validation in mind. The law of the State Department has to be considered as it is in the legal field of other recruitments, and therefore the collaborators have been involved. She's taken it all, what law needs to be changed. In some cases these are considerably complex changes, these are laws that have been valid for a long time, etc. this will take time. Hv. A senator specifically mentioned a bill that is on the field of education committees, and I will review it after this meeting where it is static, and if there is anything we need to consider on this matter. I have considered it to the State Department that men have the overall picture of what needs to be done. Sadly, though, it takes time, and it has taken a long time, so I'm not gonna drag a feather over it. Then there is nothing more to do than to try to carry on with the work, and that is what we are trying to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u31	V.E.G. President. I'll make no mistake that we validate the contract rather than legalize it. The difference is, first and foremost, that the agreement is to be used as a law code, as it was with regard to the children's covenant. The lyrics come first, and then the law is adjusted thereafter. Some have claimed that the contract is not clear enough to be used directly as a legal basis, but it has to be validated. But how important it is that we get an interpretation of the individual aspects of this contract because what is happening is that individual groups are looking at the agreement's terms to get their rights. Therefore, it is very important that the regulations be interpreted into the code of the law as they all, first and foremost. All of us appreciate those who have worked on the rights of disabled people that they are a group of languages that have been cast aside and are now quite soon. That's why I'm the highest. A minister to the celebration and, indeed, all ministers, because this is a lawsuit involving all the departments more or less. Sadly, this is merely a change of words or, above all, an excellent beginning, but it takes much, much more to do, and a great help to make this work as fast and fast as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u32	V.E.G. President. I don't have much in myself to add this, but because this bill is alluded to the fact that this bill is now smaller in shape than some material that will follow, and it's quite right that I'm going to bring more bills of this kind, yet I'd like to say that the use of words is really important to this group, and the way things are spoken in the law. So I also want men to respect this particular matter in that sense. There is a change in the use of words that has been used for a very long time and words that have changed meaning throughout history, throughout the centuries we can sometimes say. That's what we're doing now, and it's also important to my head when it comes to the introduction or validation of this important matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u33	V.E.G. President. There is no need to state that the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Poor People was made in 2007, and the Icelandic State signed them, but it has not yet been validated. This is no doubt noted, since the agreement has been validated by more than 150 kingdoms of the world. Much more of the world's countries, both advanced and underdeveloped, rich and poor, have validated the agreement and are bound to comply. As shown in the case of the highest. Within the past few years, which may have taken over, this minister of the state is a very busy matter. validate the contract. The Convention offers many important things that are known to have special attention that in order to ensure the disabled the opportunity to participate in the community in an active way and to control their lives, daily activities, and larger ones, including education and employment. We had seen what MPA has done miracles for people who have chosen to take advantage of the resources that are truly wonderful. The agreement is a very important international human rights contract that makes up for the very positions of disabled persons and protects them from all forms of discrimination known to be tolerated by those who are disabled worldwide. Of course, there is also a subject in this country, as we have experienced recently in the news, that has been a big subject for discussion, and that is a problem for us. But I'm glad this case has come to pass, it's a step in the right direction, and we may be on our way to validate the contract, which is a very good case. I agree with it with the highest. Minister of the Interior, this is a big deal. But better yet, if it works, it is long time for the contract to be validated and guaranteed to the disabled people the rights recommended in it. I encourage the government and the highest. Minister of state to speed matters up as far as possible. Then, finally, I want to say I'm the highest. The Minister of the Interior Council to have disabled persons in charge of all decisions in these matters, for as the premium of the agreement, disabled people are expected to participate in all decisions relating to their affairs. I believe that it is of utmost importance that they are not just any audience or are allowed to sit in a corner listening to a meeting but are actively involved in validating this and creating the circumstances in which we want them to live, because they naturally know what needs to be done. It's just that way. But I'm celebrating the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u34	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to celebrate the fact that this bill to correct the change in various laws in preparation for the validation of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people has come to pass, and although they may be embarrassed, for it is certainly almost all about terms of law, of course that matters. The way we talk about people matters, and it is equally important how we deal with people in public cops and especially in song lyrics. I think it may be the best thing to do in what is discussed in the 30th chapter. The bill showing that a decree issued on March 23, 1827, is removed, but the law reads like this, on the permission of a president: ▪ Now there is a baby on the ferry, a cripple, so it is difficult to come to a church for transportation, or it can be safe because of constant illness, or it has such great physical warmth, to come and interrogate in the church might cause a scandal; and then the bishop shall be permitted to allow it to be four in front of witnesses. The fact that we're breaking this law now makes me feel a little more than just a little bit like the need for this bill and emphasizes that it really matters how we talk about people. It is certainly out - of - date not only because of the words used but, of course, also materially because of the fact that we have yet to do things to ensure full participation in society, we are better off to the point where physical warmth or appearance of people are not used to exclude them from participation. As noted in the Sermon on the Mount, both in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator before me, Páll Valur Björnsson's son, and others who responded to the highest. Minister, of course, you are a bit impatient, and you too would like to see the material adjustments needed to validate the agreement. For example, on the Homepage of the Ministry of State, a table dated April 22, 2013, provides a fine summary of the work to be done. It lists the laws that must be changed to validate the contract. The chart is 2013 so you don't know what's happened since then, but if you look at it, you'll see that there's a lot of work to be done, and I'm impressed. Minister to speed it up as fast as possible. And I would also like to say in the end that it is extremely important that all the bills submitted to the General Assembly from now on and to go through the council are in accordance with the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people so that we do not need to change the text that we are either working on or is in the newly released law. I just want to encourage the highest. Minister of state to communicate these messages well with others of the highest order. A government minister for any new law to be at least correct and in accordance with the agreement, since changing old laws is enough. But to that end, this bill is as far as it reaches, a step in the right direction, and I am glad that we are taking this step in order to validate the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Disorientated People and to look forward to the next bill in that case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u35	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior for the speech and contributions of this bill. I can agree with previous speakers or other generals who have expressed concern over the fact that the validation of this important contract is not beyond the reach of this important agreement, but it is better than nothing, as shown by the minister of the matter, the language and the use of words are truly relevant. And in recent years, we have experienced a very changed view of the languages of disabled people and their rights with disability. We may be better aware that we are not born with symptoms or feelings of concern toward people who are the major problems. Rather, it is the society that is often disabled. We need to prepare people for proper living, not considering that the individual himself has specific restrictions, but that the community is creating a community for all who give the opportunity and right to participate and to live a normal life. I come up here, among other things, to remind you that during our last term, we moved the affairs of disabled people from a country to a community. It was a big step, but what was truly enjoyable in this matter was the solidarity achieved at the council. Then, all members of the current Social Affairs Committee contributed to the best outcome of the case and set it straight through the 2011 annual convention so that the transfer could take place. Much preparation had been made, but the matter was late into the council, and we were faced with a problem in this large, important group of subjects. We found it difficult to move the group of litigators without having had more access to the situation. However, we saw that both the State and its rural communities had been accomplished a lot of work and that it was most successful to avoid them. But we decided that in order to have a better perspective on the party and a better grip on it, we should submit a plan for the disabled to the year 2014, and we would give direction on what to be done in it, including working on and finishing the validation of the contract. It was supposed to happen with a bill. Then came the strategy for the council in the form of a synonym. It was agreed and stated that there should be a bill on the validation of the contract in the spring of 2013. That bill has not yet been submitted, but to be truthful, I believe it has been a great deal of work to be able to validate the agreement. Still, it is a complex task. Because of the many articles in the contract, a general review of certain legal requirements will be required, and this will only be done if it is a very rich minister's will to put that work first. I want to take this opportunity and encourage the highest. To be fully effective in this work, a minister makes it his goal to contribute the bill to the autumn Council. What I would like to discuss in the end, Mr. President, is a problem with the reviews of the Generals' committees. Now it is that the affairs of disabled people are addressed to a welfare committee. We're now up to the mountains, like... On the social security legislation and have received comments from various sources, including the Environment Alliance and the National Rights Office of Iceland. It reveals concern that certain things are not in harmony with the United Nations covenant for the rights of disabled people. It is easy to see that it is everyone's will that two articles of the bill do not become legal, that is, repetition from previous laws, and that these articles should fall from law, out - of - date. Then there are other laws, such as right work or a legal period, even though they move abroad for a certain amount of time because of study, and this is expected for five years, and a human rights agency has noted that this is not in harmony with Article 5 of Article 24. The United Nations Convention on the Rights of Disappointment Therefore, we have requested that the State Department take sides on whether the criticism is wrong, and we will respond to it and correct the article so that it does not counteract the validation of the agreement. This bill goes to the General and Education Committee, but it does not normally deal with disabled people's issues in the same way as a health committee. I'm not saying that it may be totally out of the question to her, but there is a problem that arises because of this. It is important in such a large and important group of subjects that, at the end of one committee, the matter of having a perspective. Of course, bioavailability issues are also discussed on the environment and transport committees and on the issues of disabled people are discussed in a number of committees, such as just the case of all of us. As citizens in this community, we fall under most committees of the council. But it is important that there is a perspective and knowledge of these important rights in one place at the Synod Committee that regularly deals with this party. I'd like to take another example, the United Nations Convention on Child Rights. I understand that the monitoring of his procedure is under the command and monitoring committee. The Council of Government and Observation Committee, although all members of the Parliament have a surveillance role, is the members of the council. But on welfare committees, there are children's issues. They are particularly on our custody, and we regularly discuss children's health issues, child protection laws, child law, and other lawsuits, and therefore there will be a violation when monitoring the rights agreement is passed on to another committee. Now I would have liked this case to be a special security committee, if it had been convenient, or that it would go to the management and monitoring committee, if this committee was to be a special security agent by having the contract done and work in accordance with them. My talk is primarily to express my satisfaction that there is actually taking some step in the right direction, encouraging the minister to work firmly on the validation of the contract as soon as possible, and to express concern that when it comes to the committees, there will be a certain violation of knowledge and insight into lawsuits that are crucial to the rights of the people of the Icelandic community. So I wish that a Senate committee, which I understand has not been meeting for some time, but should not start calling together, cross this thing. Now we've had experience with the new committees that are different from the old ones, and there's a lot of good in the new commission, but I'd like it to be done a little more detail on how we're loyal to the best perspective and knowledge of each committee on individual issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u36	V.E.G. President. I don't intend to go in response to what I'm saying. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg, the daughter of Ingadóttir, agrees that there are times when the committee needs to be clarified. For example, I had to ask the highest question. Internal Minister on a matter of social security, and said it was in the General and Education Committee, but it was solved by a problem. Ingibjörg Sigrídídíu Ingadóttir, chairman of the welfare committee, is on the welfare committee. However, it was making precisely the point that there would be a need to conform more closely to the law of the United Nations covenant on the affairs of disabled people. I'm waiting for the highest. A minister of credit for it, and he well understands the answer that she did not recognize what I was discussing because I was confused by committees. But this, of course, also brings forward, and I agree with it by reason. A senator calling for, that perhaps a formal covering of this document is needed. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir, mentioned earlier, as an overview of what needs to be changed, and then there is a formal member of the council who observes how it works; it has come into all the bills, etc.? Maybe that's because I know that when bills are submitted, especially political launchers, there are certain rules on what to check. Is that against a constitution? Does this mean that they are allowed to evaluate the effect that this will have on their communities? The monitors are to be installed and determined as to whether this is consistent with equality. But why not be with both the children's covenant and the United Nations Convention on Poor People, that there are always reviews on these issues whether the law conflicts with these two agreements?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u37	V.E.G. President. On the other hand, I recommend a bill to legalize the transport of passengers in the country for commercial purposes and a bill to legalize land transport. A law on commercial passenger transport has now been revised in order to obtain a complete set of legislation on this case. At the same time, it is suggested to remove national and national transport legislation, No. 73/2001, this is a moving point. It was decided that these laws were more convenient and more clear to put in a country's transport bill than to suggest a change in existing laws. Since the contents of the bill are so closely connected, both of them will be spoken here as the Supreme Court. President reported. I'll first be turning to a commercial bill about passenger transport. That was written at the Ministry of Internal Affairs in 2012/2014. At the same time, a government work team worked on the residence of the Road Building, the House of Transport, and a representative of the main stakeholders. The work was directed by Eyvindur G. Gunnarsson, head of law at the University of Iceland. Draws that the bill was first presented at the Ministry's Web by the end of 2012 and has been working on finalation of the bill until now. In recent years, there have been significant changes in the number of passengers, including the number of passengers in the United States. with increasing tourism, changes in government, and goals on public transport growth. The legislation on employment transport has not changed according to this trend. The aim of reviewing a law on commercial transport is to coordinate and get a complete set of guidelines on the case as well as to take into account international trends and the needs of the community in terms of economic and effectiveness. Then it is that the environmental considerations are being taken into account in making decisions about the transport arrangements. The bill takes up commercial passenger transport and replaces law No. 73/2001, about the transport and transport transport of the land, on the basis of the regulations of the transport laws, as well as the law of No. 134/2001, about cab cars. The bill aims to coordinate legislation on this transport and to adapt the legislation simultaneously with EEA legislation in this field, but there are new types to be introduced or recently introduced into Icelandic rights, such as the Council and Council Regulations of the European Parliament and No. 1370/2007, public transportation, and No. 181/2011, about passenger rights. Based on the objective of the bill, to face the trend of a country passenger transport in recent years, these new types are introduced, or opened, for their induction, and are reviewed by the legislation relevant to the commercial transport of passengers and receive a single law code. At the same time, this review saw the need to clarify the surveillance clearances of a Grouping Agency with the profession to ensure that a safer transport of different types of passengers could survive and grow at the same time. Among the newcomers on the bill are the top ones: More detailed policy on public transportation and their exports. Refused sources other than taxi vehicles to transport eight or fewer passengers according to specific conditions. Implementation for the control of authorised activities increased, and a Community agency was appointed to supervise the implementation of the law. Government guilty of certain fractures. Negotiation of the job permit of the cab driver, while other changes in the cab driver's ability to use employment permit, limitation of areas, private rights and the role of rental vehicles. It is not permitted to drive with standing passengers in public transportation at a maximum speed of more than 50 miles per hour. unless the vehicle is specifically intended for standing passengers, which will drop after a lead-in period. V.E.G. President. I will briefly discuss the subject of the unique chapter of the bill to make the United Nations the best known of its construction. Chapter I of the bill contains guidelines for goals and fields as well as definitions. It is not a fundamental thing to do without a proposal for a so-called patent under Article 7. track No. 73/2001, regarding the transport and freight transport of the country, will be called the exclusive right of the bill. Is this consistent with the terms of EU Regulation No. 1370/2007, as well as the way it is done to separate from the clear legal force of the word'salvation' to mental rights. There are new terms for public transportation and group travel. Il. section of the bill is an arrangement for the administration of public transport across the country. This section does not include any fundamental change in legal status relative to the current transport and transport laws on land or rental vehicles. In III. This section will then discuss the implementation of public transport enterprises, while along with the changes in the legal environment within the past few years, where patents have been dropped, the rights have been given public transport on certain routes or areas to individual rural or national organisations. The chapter discusses the implementation of public transport and cooperation in planning and their organization. This part of the bill, 6,◯11. c., includes some new indicators in the planning of public transport in the country where the organization of the ministry is tried, especially plans, closer to users and stakeholders. By setting up a meeting area within each region and between national parts of the community, proposals are made to ensure harmonisation of national and national policies and for the whole country. Therefore, it is necessary to establish a coordinated strategy so that passengers will be able to move between parts of the country as a minimum of a waiting period. With good cooperation and cooperation on national programmes, it is hoped that the aims of a transport strategy can be met for economic and public transport. IV. section of the bill consists of terms on business license, patents, etc. which is now found in law No. 73/2001, about the transport and cargo of land. This suggests significant laws, both their shape and their content. The regulations of the bill are suggested to apply to all those who carry people for their own trade. The bill assumes that the road structure can assign its national branch members the exclusive right to public transport planning, i.e. Regular passenger transport. In the bill, the definitions of tourism and services are used to distinguish public transport services from organized groups of travel services. The private rights include all the bus stops and transportation centres that are served throughout the year. It forbids all others to pick up passengers unless it has been written or was specifically arranged by passengers in advance of paid fares at a tourist resort or bus pass by a travel agency as a basis for a specific period in advance of predefined means, such as a caller. Chapter V is dedicated to taxi vehicles. Despite the current regulations of the law No. 134/2001, of taxi cars, is a fundamental policy that is laid down in certain areas. Specific adjustments are given to legal factors, such as legalizing a specific distribution arrangement allowing rent driving. In addition, distribution of permits and localisation are also under way. They are endeavoring to prevent overlaps with other drivers' passenger transport for eight passengers or less. The main changes proposed by the bill are the publishing of the employment authorisation, the use of employment permit, the limitation of areas, the private rights of the cab driver and the role of cab vehicles. It is suggested that the distribution of the job permit by a cab driver will be intensified in several key elements. Age ranges are noted for both minimum age and maximum age. This suggests that a person must have reached 23 years of age to be given a work permit, which is consistent with a D-class driver's license. A D-class driver's license includes eight or more cars, as well as passengers that can be attached to a backcar of 700 pounds [700 kg] or less of the allowed total weight. Alternatively, a new work permit cannot be given to individuals over 70 years of age despite the possibility of extending work permit to one year up to 76 years of age. That's actually true now, a cab driver's license can be extended for about a year. This is not a real change. This, however, is an exception to the principle, an application for renewal. Also allowing to drive modified, specialised vehicles to travel services and car services are added to the new travel permit. It is thus authorised to provide special travel services for travel workers who drive eight or fewer cars. These people should meet the requirements of the general employment permit and have employment permit as travel strategists or travel organisations. The requirement for such transport is to have a premeditated service and to travel no less than a half of a day's journey or to be part of another approved travel service, e.g. while attending certain travel services, such as riding horses or hunting. This is a response to the vast increase in number of tourists and give tourists the opportunity to offer a more comprehensive service. Another renewal is a city permit, which is granted permission to run light cars that are classified as a motorcycle, called a tuk-tuk, for a tour. I hadn't realized what a tuk-tuk would be, so I looked it up on the world web, and tuk-tuks are light carts that we've seen on tours in foreign lands, and now we'll be able to get permission for such vehicles within the city's targets. Wll's. a chapter on permission is discussed in general. There are no changes to the current rights. Exploitation and forwarding of employment and management will be prohibited as before and a specific fee will be taken for publication. Reconnaissance 1st mg. Thirty-four. but it has new recommendations that passenger transport is forbidden to drive by standing passengers outside a urban area, i.e. where the maximum velocity is greater than 50 miles per hour. Clearly, such passengers - especially for passengers - may pose a real danger. 3 mg. there is an exception to this rule. With the exception allowed to have a standing passenger, allowing maximum speed to exceed 50 miles per hour. if the vehicle is specifically intended for standing passengers and provided that children are not among standing passengers. However, it is not permitted to drive that particular vehicle faster than a maximum of 50 miles/h. He's at VIII. This section discusses official services and is a new guide based on the principles of the EU Regulation No. 1370/2007. The reason why the Regulation's legislation on contracts for public service is to increase the clarity of the law and destroy justice. In this regard it is observed that treaties involving the above include some restrictions on free competition for public transport. It is clear from the regulations that measures to ensure public interest are permitted. It is assumed that private and official funding for regular passenger transport are distributed on the basis of tenders. There are exceptions. Thus, rural, national, and regional communities are permitted to carry out their own ministry according to certain conditions. Chapter X discusses the rights of passengers. The rules of this section include the necessary changes to be made in legislation in order to implement Regulation No. 181/2011, about the license of passengers in regular passenger transport and group trips. The objective of Regulation No. 181/2011 is implementing comparable rules and regulations about passenger licenses in flight. Using the above principles in the regulations that take into account the regulations of the Regulation, passengers in plan and group vehicles will be held at a travel distance of more than 250 miles [250 km] comparable to that of a passenger in flight. The final section contains various general regulations on the matter of delinquency and charges, regulations and enforcing. At the end of this discussion on passenger transport, I would like to refer to a special coverage of the bill on the case of the Court's Supreme Court for regular passenger transport in the North countries. In view of the fact that the provision of private rights for regular passenger transport in certain areas and routes has been thoroughly discussed and that the bill seeks to explain the boundaries of the private right to other passengers it seems appropriate to consider slightly how these matters are being handled in our neighboring countries. I have a special interest in the discussion of the United States of Congress. The bill includes some fundamental changes in the field of passengers, which, unmistakably, will influence the administration as well as the private person. Effects on private property are primarily due to trespassing due to transport. Thus, a job that is not permitted today will be allowed, such as a passenger transport in connection with travel services with fewer passengers than nine or sightseeings within the town of an eco-friendly and light vehicles, while at the same time, they lay down on those who would like to earn a permit. At that time, however, the bill will inevitably affect those who drive a cab. However, it will result in several changes in age conditions, medical conditions, etc. However, all changes have been under way and assessed in preparation of the bill and are needed to achieve government policy on efficient transport, focusing on the interaction of free employment and public transport. The Agency will have several effects on the administrative board, which can be expected to have several increases in the activities of the Rapporteur. The economic effects have been evaluated and followed by the bill. A respectable president. Now it's time to discuss a bill to legalize transport transport. It's much smaller than the bill I've already discussed, but it's also worked at the State Department, and its contents are three-way. First of all, it is essential that the contribution of national passenger transport bill to the removal of national and national transport legislation, no. 73/2001, this is a moving point. Second, experience has shown that there is an increased need for increased monitoring of the authorised transport and the need to improve access to the walking agency in order to monitor these events. These increased sources, as well as the law on wood, are found in 8,◯18. par. The bill, paralleling the information provided by the Grouping Agency on the bill to legalize passengers living in the country. The implementation of current legislation has shown that it has been difficult for agencies to monitor the transport sector, before the Road Building now, to maintain monitoring, and to maintain the resources that the institutions have had on the basis of the law, at a very limited rate. Thus it has been difficult to ensure that equality is amongst those who practice permit transport under the law, and thus equally competitive. This has been observed in the Ministry's discussions with stakeholders in the article, which has repeatedly requested that the surveillance be effective and that the surveillance resources of the organisations be increased or permitted otherwise. The problem has been confirmed by consultation with relevant organisations, and it is therefore the opinion of the Ministry that in order to be realistic, the Icelandic government will fulfill its obligations under the above regulations and to ensure equal competitive conditions in this article it is necessary to act on this. Third, you can find in the bill an addition to existing legislation related to the commitment of the Icelandic government under the EEA Convention. This is commitments that result from the involvement of the Icelandic State to the European Economic Convention. Recently recorded in the EEA Convention three regulations making up the so-called Road package (U.S.A.) Two of these regulations have to do with transport, i.e. Council Regulation and Council No. 1072/2009, the common rules of access to national transport markets and the European Parliament and Council Regulation (EEC) No. 1071/2009, concerning common rules that must be met in order to work as a road transporter and to break down the Council Directive 96/26/EC. These were recorded in the contract, with a warning of changing the law. Since 2009, these have been in force in the European Union for some time. The aforementioned Regulation, 1072/2009, applies to national freight transport for the payment of Community territory and has little to do with Iceland's regional transport. The latter, Regulation No. 1071/2009, however, has access to the transport organisation's work programme and the practice of such activities, which refers to all enterprises, which are confirmed in the Community as partners. It was found in the sentence of the practice of discrimination between countries in the application of this principle that led to some negative consequences, including competitive, unsatisfactory, and unsatisfactory control. It should be noted that, although not formally introduced here, to this extent the legislation has reflected much in this Regulation. These two regulations will be implemented so closely by administration of administrative directives on the basis of the source contained in the bill. It should be noted that in order to ensure that there would be no further allowed employment or to weigh the commercial situation through observation, the need for a measure of the law's value on transport from the existing law was to be established. As noted earlier, there is a requirement for transport license due to the commitment of the European State to the European Court. In current legislation, the law is expected to apply for transport transport by driving vehicles, whether by a vehicle or by a synthetic vehicle. At that time, a minister's authority is expected to be in charge of the regulations of the legal regulations for certain freight transports and for certain types of vehicles. Notes have been made to the arrangement, including with the reference "supervised" is too open. There are questions about whether the procedure is usually needed. Since the terms given in the regulations always need to be taken into account by Regulation 1071/2009, the exception of the regulations of the law is now being carried out all the transport authorised under the regulations of the Regulation. I emphasize that anything that can be avoided is an exception. It is thus thought that the law's standards are made as narrow as the commitment of the Icelandic state that the European Court of Human Rights does not call national interest to a greater degree than that. A respectable president. This is a very large case that I have made clear, and it is important that we do so. The Environment and Transport Committee, which will discuss the matter, carefully review the subject of the bill, call for references, and receive the response of the person. I know that the committee will do so very well, so please hear my case and suggest that the case be referred to 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u38	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of the I.R. for the contributions on these bills and their presentation. I frankly admit that I have not read the bill from page one to the end, these are 50 to 60 pages, actually 70 pages of what is said about passenger transport. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on matters that have been well discussed and on the private rights. It is granted to rural, social, and national groups according to certain rules. This is said to be done because there is no means to live up to it. I'd like to hear an interpretation. A minister of that law and how it understands that point. It is evident, for example, that if we take the Southnes, and this was a considerable discussion, our trips can be very effective and costs equal if the way from the capital to the Gulf Airport is in the package. But if it is taken out of parentheses and run by private partners with financial opportunities, local societies or the state may have to pay or pay a great deal of transport across the penitentiary, e.g. From Sandmaker to Grindavík, etc. I'd like to take a shortcut and ask the highest possible question. Ministers how this is in these new laws: Will they pluck out the best roads and privatize them, i.e. give them exclusive rights? Or is the private right solely dependent on rural, social, and national groups? Is it permitted, then, to take such major road routes into that package? It's interesting to hear about the cabs, and I'm sticking to Keflavík Airport: I understand correctly that now travellers and hotels are allowed to take trips from the airport, i.e. any shuttles that pick up passengers and get them to that hotel, or is it referred to by taxis or to public transportation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u39	V.E.G. President. I didn't pay enough attention at the end. Was a what? A senator bringing me in on whether parties will be allowed to drive? Yes, it is the so - called travel permit I made clear in my speech. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It's less than eight, it's just a new one. There are transport permits and, on the other hand, city permits by trucks, both are for increased travel services and opportunities for tourism to provide better services. I'd like to state that they also have to have the right to serve as travel workers. With regard to the other question, the road can provide local, regional, and national groups with permission to grant the Administrative Service exclusive rights on certain routes. This is to be done to facilitate transportation and always on the basis of an invitation. Of course, the idea is to provide transportation within and between areas. Then some articles can be granted permission to perform minimum services. It's really the thought of this, if I understood a question. A senator's right. The main concern is to ensure a clear route between land areas and also ensure minimal services on a given license. Regarding the airport, however, it is possible to go on the basis of public transportation from Smokejanestown and to the airport and to Reykjavík, despite the fact that passengers from Keflavour Airport are also being driven. A phone call may be made in other ways despite the exclusive rights. They believe that it is necessary, and I'm at it, to ensure rapid service from the Cheflavor airport, including passengers into Reykjavík.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u40	V.E.G. President. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Of course, I realize that the Committee will cover the tourism and automobiles under eight people and the cab situation. I'm not gonna get involved anymore. The other inquiry, which can be said to be about the old plans or the right to take passengers from Keflavour Airport into the town of larger cars, may primarily be about the use of public transportation. I think it's extremely important that we try to stay out of public transportation and then add ways. There is a path that can obviously deliver significant amounts of income and will allow it to run other services on the Skaganum, Rhinenes, or Southnes. The question is, by allowing the private people to go in this way specifically, they leave the cost of making good transport elsewhere on the Southnes. This is true of several other places around the country. If one can pick out the best pieces on a certain route, it must be expensive to drive the other part as a possible bite on public transportation, and this conflicts with the goal of the bill, as I understand it, there are both environmental and communal views, that humans can maintain as the most diverse transport. This is what I was wondering aloud, and I pray to the highest degree. Minister, if he can, give more information about this factor, but the committee will probably take it down. You would have wanted to see this so that you could use the best means to finance those who are less fortunate and to make sure that services could be operated on that route.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u41	A respectable president. It is always a question of how it is best to arrange these public transportation. We've had a special license over the years too. I know why. For example, a senator knows a special license to drive in a Western country, a Sæmundur between Citizens and Acdines, etc., it's always been, and may at all times argue the best way to do this. There has also been a view of having no rules, of having minimal conditions, and then just driving. There's a conflicting point of view. The route from Keflavour Airport to Reykjavík is not classified as public transportation, it is not defined as public transportation. That is a fundamental answer to the question. A senator is wondering. It's not because it's a fixed schedule, because it's not part of a lead system, which is why I specifically mentioned public transportation from Smokeytown to Reykjavík by means of a meeting at the Cheflavour Airport as some kind of advertised route. However, there is a debate that is not addressed directly in this bill but that would be a reason to take it, and that is how to handle such public permission at all. Some of these permits are due to our commitment to Europe's rights, we need them to do so, but in other cases we have even more freedom to decide things ourselves. We're taking steps here in terms of cab driving by letting people in with just bigger cars and extra services. But I think this will be one of the things that will be adopted by the Committee. It is such a hard question: How far should this practice take place?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u42	A respectable president. I'm celebrating those initials. They are a fine price, and long time. I'm gonna make up the 14th paragraph. ... ina bill to sue for passenger transport. It's only been received here. It's about the private rights. It says: It can provide rural, regional, regional, and regional communities in accordance with local administration laws' rights to organise and arrange regular passenger transport in certain areas or routes to ensure services for public interests throughout the year, including the frequency of travel, safety and costs This is good and good. But private rights are given only if it is shown that the following conditions are met: ▪ A service in the regular transport of passengers in the affected area and routes is needed because of its general economic significance and failure to get started on business grounds so that minimal services are ensured. It must be ensured that competition is maintained on existing sites and routes. surrounding areas and routes - we are hiding the national bodies planning regular trips. And then I ask, " Should they only be allowed to organize ways that are of no profit? ' Are we really going to plan and legalize that our rural society can handle the losses, but private people can enter where there is some profit? I would have thought it normal that such private rights were only confined to areas, planning public transportation in areas, and offering out in accordance with EU regulations, as 2 of the 2nd Amendment of the 14th. par.Unable to connect to POP server %s. Error sending password: The enterprise has provided cost-and-consuming evaluations that have taken into account the real need for public funds in the respective areas, routes, or guides. Regular passenger transport based on private rights. 1.mg. distribution should normally be performed in accordance with the 40th stanzas. There's no problem offering territory. Even if there's not as much loss on every route as there is on the right side of zero, I don't think it's possible to put it on the countryside that they don't get it, there's the right way for private people to come in. It is forbidden by private rights, except by his consent to carry out regular passenger transport on certain routes or guides or regions where the exclusive right to regular passenger transport has been granted. Of course, this is only positive. But I also wondered about the next paragraph: It is forbidden to add routes or temporary waiting points over a particular time of the year, in relation to tourist areas at the time of the year. Figure 8. or ways that are not served on a yearly basis unless clearly necessary. It's a little stretchy. I can't see how dangerous it would be to have some community way into something like this over the summertime or while somewhere you can't do it over the winter month. Here, too, it kind of comes after: If there is no demand, it is permitted to cancel services at a waiting station or to travel for up to three months continuously between May and September. That's three months over there. But if there is a sudden need, I don't see the absolute danger, even if my societies take it up in themselves to perform it. I'm very unhappy with this, and I'm confident that in the hearing it'll be corrected, there's not much to erase. There are these routes, that is one word I would have thought would have to step out there, which is also the goal of the bill. The objective of these changes was to ensure good public service so that there would be a practical alternative to the private car. We all agree that we are promoting public transportation. The work areas are growing, and to ensure nationalisation, in these smaller settlements close to larger settlements, it is of utmost importance that rural society can maintain transport between these areas. And even if they were to profit in one way, I would have thought that it would be both a country and a country to profit by letting them back one another up, these ways. If I grab here a little bit: The service to be chosen should be due to its general economic translation, but with a more general economic significance the service is an economic activity defined on the part of the public as an important public service and that may be considered unattainable, or not under the same conditions, if it was not for the purpose of the public. Is it not more likely that public transportation will become sustainable, and neither state nor rural society will have to pay with these future routes if there is one parking place that doesn't have to be paid? I don't fully understand the danger of it. It says: Then the role of the exclusive right to competition must be evaluated, and the possibility that the arrangement will have a negative, competitive effect. Based on these principles, the Council and the Council Regulation (EC) No. 1370/2007.How can I help you? I allow myself to state that this is entirely under the rule of the EEA. I believe public transportation is in larger areas abroad than we are trying to bind it here. All I know is that there are public transportation, whether by train or by bus, on an airport in neighboring lands. In the North, all I know is that you can take a train to the full, and that's part of a public transportation. I trust during the council's treatment, we cut the bait from this bill and make it possible for the countryside, at least not making it burdensome for them, to develop their public transportation, so that individual legs, although some profits, will not be picked off by them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u43	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. As I said at the end of my talk earlier, there are ways to organize public transportation and the whole car business. Then there's a question of how much order should be about this. But let us not forget, and I will shew that public transportation in the land is no means of profit; it is not. In many ways it has been a burden for the national body to perform the service assigned to them, so that this too should be kept in mind. I can give you an example in this regard. In many parts of the North, it's been tough, in East America too, you know it. This is a new system, part of the country, that's what we're dealing with, but over the years it's always been very difficult. That's why the patents came into existence at the time. The government granted and strengthened them specifically; they were fortified from a government fund because they did not live up to them. That was not for any other reason. I think it's okay for men to keep that in mind because I'm not going to argue that this is a perfect bill, but here is an attempt to bring a minimum service on certain means to support public transportation. It's a minimum service that's being ensured there. It is what the rural communities are up to to provide minimum service in certain areas. It is then strongly emphasized that areas can be connected well, so this turns all about that the passenger will be able to make easy travel within areas and between areas, and that he can see it in advance; not that the way is coming in and out of the window, so to speak, but that he can plan his trips on the basis of plans. I just want to keep this up in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u44	Thank you very much. Minister of Olöfu Nordal for participating in the discussion. The point is, these public transportation are so heavy for the rural population. That's why it makes you feel so sorry that you're standing there black on whites, that if there's a catheter that's not a loss, you should be able to take it off. I could have imagined that the land was one transportation area. We all know it's all about the bus to the airport where there's a lot of traffic, but it's not a loss that way. Thus, rural communities in the South planned to use the suggested support of other losses to try to build powerful public transport in the South. Depending on the areas in which you live, you may be on the outside or on the inside, such as the Grinsavík. There's so much at stake we can build a powerful public transportation. I would have liked to know that a man at Akureyri or in Raufark could buy himself a busload to the Cheflavour Airport, there would be only one ticket, just as one ticket would buy a train ticket in England.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u45	V.E.G. President. The aim is to make travel time shorter, that is, the goal of making both tourists and us citizens available to use public transport within areas and between areas from the Redfarve to the Chefjords Airport as well. There is nothing on the bill that prevents driving from moving from Chefavík through the Cheflavíks Airport to Reykjavík if this is done on a schedule, before a planned schedule, there is nothing to prevent it. I want to make rights and reiterate the purpose of all of this. We have to keep in mind that we live in a very crowded country. That's actually the only way to go. A senator mentioned that there is a different route - the way out to the Cheflavík Airport. Otherwise, public transportation, either within the town or between areas here in Iceland, is heavy for those who serve, because the minimum service was taken, is very important to be present for those who cannot travel with cars. It is the goal of the bill to try to secure it number one, two and three.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u46	A respectable president. I have no doubt that their goals are the same as they want to be. The terms of these patents were mentioned. There were many more. The trend has decreased dramatically. That is exactly what is indicated in the bill that the purpose is to reverse that trend. Hence, even if we are extending territory across the country, it is not good to establish it in the bill. There are other ways of falling in. It is not likely that someone will be excited to pick up a few short ways. It's hard to arrange trips to places where you know that private servants have small cars and large cars in rows and offer their services. It's kind of like that. It's just like the highest. A minister says that we want to lift this heavy burden from our rural communities by being able to use some of these ways, even if some are added, and we do not lose them. [[The president calls.]] This will help everything else. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u47	A respectable president. I'm going to make this place a subject of a passenger transport bill, and I'm not going to go to the second bill as high as the top. The Minister of the Interior has recommended the same procedure. As mentioned in the case of the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister is on the bill to discuss some of the policies on passenger transport, particularly the proposed change and the development of freedom in certain areas of passenger transport. However, the second in this bill doesn't make me feel better, I have to say, and perhaps most importantly, the fact that with the bill is not changing what has been most urgent. As noted by the bill, it has been working in the Ministry for a few years, no less or less, and a number of people have done so as you can see. Unfortunately, in view of the European Commission's proposal, I must not salute this bill for the fact that I can refer to it as a product or as a result of the bad plans for which Iceland is forced to enter a law, it is not. This bill is fully homemade, although it is certainly taking into account various European Commission deductions. Without saying anything about it, it seems to me that these directives were rather in the process of increasing the freedom of business in this area. I'd like to step aside from the introduction of comments to the bill that I think might be the core of it and what I'm most impressed with. It specifically says that hopes are attached to the arrangement set out in the bill that a passenger transport, whether by public or private, can thrive and grow alongside. I'll make notes about that. I believe it must be the goal of the private people to all the passengers in the country that the bill takes up, not to public members. Thus, the spirit of the bill appears immediately in the introduction of the comments, and the subject of the bill, of course, is in harmony with it. I would like to briefly step toward private rights in certain areas where others had the problem. The Senate has discussed the above. The petition is for private rights in specific areas with reference to public interest, with reference to the fact that in terms of public transport, the country's more widespread settlements are to be attended and those living there. We all admit it, it's not as good as running passengers in the most scattered settlements as possible in the capital area. The way to solve this problem, however, is not necessarily to divide the country into a special resort area and grant permission on a certain route. You just have to face the cost of passenger transport in those areas, taking into account the basic analysis of the need for such passenger transport. If that's what it's willing to do, the government will run the cost of it in any way, I believe it should be more beneficial than granting special releases as laid down in the bill. The cost must be on the table, and privates are paid for that passenger transport according to that. In the same article, pars. The bill is referred to as an invitation for private rights. However, as far as I can see, the bill itself is not determined for how many years or how long a private right is given in this way. I believe this is at least a matter of careful consideration, and I expect the committee to be discussed. I'd also like to discuss specifically the V. chapter of the bill that concerns rent cars. I would have considered it desirable, if not necessary, since we have so much developed and extensive a bill, that there would have been a greater improvement in the handling of a traffic vehicle in Iceland during the year 2015. There's a lot of writing here, and there's a lot of paperwork and a lot of rule around this simple business. I'm gonna mention 19th. it is being discussed in particular about the granting of the job permit, it remains that a job permit is required to drive a cab, and it is granted only during the course of the walkroom. And if you go and pass a cab - driving course, it's not that you can walk around and hold it all your life. It seems that it just comes out, and you don't keep it right for the rest of your life. It is then required that the person who plans to drive a cab has a position at a taxi station, as defined in the bill. I do not consider this to be a great improvement and to reduce the number of monotonous individuals and individual initiatives in this field and to be placed on this very simple business. The most serious thing in the bill, though, is what we're talking about in the 21st floor. The bill, which is about the limit to the number of rental cars. It continues to indicate that there will be a limit to the number of rent cars. Of course, the aim of limiting the number of rental cars is not fully explained and is not conclusively in any way limited to some kind of security requirement, the safety of human beings being limited in the fact that there is a limited number of rental cars. This I think is most unfortunate, and I believe that this chapter could actually be revised in its entirety. Then at the end, I'd like to close briefly at 32. The bill, about the so - called CREEP license, was established in the speeches of others. Senators. It seems so, as it is said in a comment on this article, and there has been a reason to take a special note of it, that there has not been any authority in the law to drive light cars or so-called tuk-tuk in a travel service to a town tour. As a result, the bill authors evidently consider them to be a failure to perform such a service today. That's why it's put in 32. g., since the Association Service is permitted to give special permission for tours on eco-friendly vehicles such as these so-called tuk-tuk cars, which I have to admit I don't quite understand who is. But I just think right now that considering this, it's forbidden today to offer tours on bicycles, for example, and known abroad, because this is simply a means of engineing vehicles. This article is a bit of the core of the bill, I think, I'm sure, here has been found some form of transportation not specifically permitted in the law and is therefore regarded as prohibited and banned until now, and it has to be unacceptable and this has to be done, not just by law, but specifically permissible to grant special permission. From that moment on, it takes to lean on a bicycle for you. It just doesn't make any sense to me. To this end, I would like to reiterate what I mentioned at the beginning of my speech that it is happy that the bill, however, is expected to have increased freedom in terms of a certain passenger transport. But especially with reference to this, I think it's preferable to take them thinking a little further, and to trust their private services, and to look ahead of that passenger service and to reduce the regular work that takes place on a job passenger transport.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Certainly, this can be agreed with the passing of time. A senator says that there is considerable permission of a passenger transport operation in the vast sense and that it is not new here in Iceland. That's the way it's always been for me to say. For a very long time, it has been so much needed to keep a patent protected from a government fund, as I mentioned in the antiquated route across the country. There are differences of viewpoints, the viewpoints that need to be maintained by certain minimum movements in the country, and the bill is in part responding to it as it has been done for a long time, and now the communities and part of the country are doing so. Hv. A senator mentioned that it was her wish or would much rather be done by private servants, and I can agree with it by reason. Senator. I can also agree that there is a reason for that, and I mentioned it in the discussion, that people would discuss whether there are any further steps to free. But there are steps in that direction on the bill. They may not necessarily be very large, but they are yet phases. I want it to be held in the discussion, and as we continue to discuss the matter, such steps are being taken. Cab cars have been driving in such a way that it has had to be stopped and restricted for many years. It has been proved true, so it has been very difficult to start this discussion on freeing all the cab fare. However, I am fully willing to take that discussion. In the long run, I feel that there's a lot more freedom there, and I can mention more factors than in this subject, because we're dealing with these conflicting views, how far to go in a freedom policy and how much public service we feel we need. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This bill goes somewhere between us, but I can say it with a what. A senator could go further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u49	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior for her response to the talk. I would love to drop one short question to the highest level. For this reason, the Minister of Ministers would simplify the bill, or perhaps the matter, one thing. I think it's the highest. Interior minister of the bill will be much worse if, for example, 32. ... whichoftheTuk-tuksthecars, wasn't inside the bill?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u50	A respectable president. The subject is being considered. A senator needed--at least I had to look it up when I started working with the bill what Tuk-tuk cars are. In this case, it is not lawful to have a vehicle in this country that would meet the requirements of a theatomic vehicle, except for some rules. If I understand the question correctly, because I was doing the paper on the bill at the same time, then why? Senator asking if I think it may be totally free, right? I get it so it needs to be read in the bill, I get it that way. But maybe I'd have to look into it permanently. This is not quite the same as when we're talking about bicycles, because it's a vehicle.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u51	A respectable president. Thanks for that. I asked now because I can't see better than the fact that a bicycle, such as a bicycle, falls under it. It is a vehicle, an environmental vehicle of 32. is designed specifically to clean up. I'm just wondering, because this is a new mode of transportation, and these tuk-tuks are also new transportation mechanisms, I understand that such as a mechanical device, open, as one has seen abroad. It would have been so fun if, in some way, a new method of transportation could have been possible without having to set laws or rules or specifically, if nothing has specifically called on it. I mean, of course, those things aren't dangerous, they're vehicles that go south at a speed of 50 miles. [[Taken to: 50 miles.]] A bicycle can go faster, I don't know about it, but I think a bicycle falls underneath. If the wheels remain drawn from bicycles, they must also fall for professional purposes. [[Pronunciation for: professional purposes.]] So I wondered, " Would it not have been more fun to enjoy this journey, at least allow him a little space for some time to be at peace without the lawgiver and the government meddling in that journey? ' I expect that. A committee, a transportation committee, who is expected to receive the bill for discussion, took a special look at it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u52	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. The Minister of the Interior Minister of Olfu Nordal for providing this bill. It's been working in the Ministry for a while, and it's finally been submitted. I'm mainly going to discuss public transportation in my speech and discuss only the things that turn to them. It was a few years ago that this group of cases was introduced to the rural communities, with the results that public transportation, especially in the region, increased, and could be pointed to numbers in the area where passengers in the country grew by tens and hundreds of percent. In the South, the number of passengers in the United States has increased from 80,000 a year to 230 thousand in three years. It shows how much lift this is for the scattered areas. At the beginning of my speech, I want to mention that in our rural and difficult country, where 330,000 people live, it's no joke to run public transportation where we're trying to serve people all over the country, from the most scattered settlements to the big city of Reykjavík, if I say so. The road did not ask for a specific minimum service, she put this into the community, and by a concerted effort, the rural society has built up a very powerful public transport system based on the construction of the road to the capital, and the rural communities have since been able to have more extensive means of entering the small. It's based on the whole system in gross fucks. It's a very important system that the most versatile ways are underneath the system. In the southern part of the country, Selephoss is the natural route of the long largest bite and sustains transportation into the countryside and east across the country. That's the way it is in Southnes, and that's what it is like in Bus in Reykjavík. There's not all the road bus. ... whogoestotakeover. There are only Fell and Hlemmings and Hafnarfjörður, and such carriers. If you're going to take the passage out of the system, I'm going to ask it in Reykjavík too. Will we then see a competition here, where all bus drivers can get them on the street and begin to compete with one another? I don't think that's what they want. I know that the system here is complete and good according to the existing laws, but I also want to know that the system is presented in a number of parts and the Street bus. Available paths in the system. So there are a lot of people driving for the bus bus bus. in the capital city and neighboring areas. Who's that bus for? He's for the young, he's for the schoolchildren, the teenagers, the older citizens, and those who don't have a car, those who can't afford a car. The bus system is for them. And waiting stations and schedule are based on schools, workplaces, public buildings, and institutions. They're stopped at school, they're stopped at the hospitals, they're stopped at the local pharmacy. So that the system is run, that the people may make the best use of it. This is a service to those who need it, and with a good system, the growth has been complete and intense. Thus, we, who built this system, have been able to connect the smallest settlements to the big core. There was a complete change when the communities took this group of litigation. With the permission of a respectable president, I'm going to quote the first section of Article 14. the bill you see here: ▪ A service in the regular transport of passengers in the affected area and routes is needed because of its general economic significance and failure to get started on business grounds so that minimal services are ensured. It must be ensured that competition is maintained on existing sites and routes. I've only been through this. In other words, this is to be taken out of the local community system and delivered to a few bus companies in the country, a few, two, maybe three, who can participate in it with some force. It would be a complete setback for the communities. In fact, it is a question, Is the community any longer interested in dating this group of subjects, so important to the population in the community? I believe that during a discussion on the Environment and Transport Committee, this team needs to be considered and whether we want it to be this way in our small country. This was once spoken of by a good man as being personal gain, but the land of the loss. I don't like it. I'm essentially a competitor, but I don't think that in a small country it's always appropriate, that doesn't always apply when it comes to securing the people's best interests in transportation. I'd like to step out that flight isn't in it. I feel that the international flight should be part of a public transportation system as important as it is in the country. We have been shrinking the services around the country, and the people need to attend more services to the capital, to the Land Hospital, and to other special - service institutions, and it is important that the international flight becomes part of the public transport system. I think it's extremely important that we secure the airport in Reykjavík, even though there's always a struggle to get him out of there. It's a very strange impulse. This may be the first thing I've ever wanted to talk about, 14th degree. I also want to, and I can't help but talk about the fly bus, which is a special project that Vega assigned to the Southnes to do. The reason for this was that the South American Union had done well in bus management, and it was natural for them to take over. It has now been shown that the plane bus does not become part of public transportation. We have not agreed. We have this bill definition of what public transportation is and what a tourist location is. Whether Leifsson Erik's Air Force Base at Keflavour Airport is a tourist location or a public transportation site has been established. We have agreed that it was linked to public transport, because the definition of a tourist attraction on the bill is: a place popular at travel by nature, history, and culture, in which local service takes into account the needs of tourists. This does not apply to Leifs Erik's Air Station. This was true of the Blue lagoon, and it was clear to these department leaders who were entrusted with this responsibility. It made the decision not to compete with tourists there. Of course, it was left behind and there are bus rides many times a day. Also, while the rural communities drove the bus to the bus station, it was not necessary that groups of vehicles pick up their passengers to the Cheflavor airport and then drive through the country. I have to say, I hope that my South American Union partner-in-law on the State Department or State Ministers will not harm the currently employed Minister because it had nothing to do with the airlifting of the rural areas on the Southnes. And with regard to the flight bus plan, it was quite clear that there was a timed out for it. It was one of eight or ten trips a day set out from Reykjavík in the morning and from Keflavík in the afternoon. There were also special waiting sites in Reykjavík, Kópavogi, Garðatown, Hafnarfjörður, and south, as well as the conditions of the Roadmaker all the time that every aircraft would have crashed. And so it was, no matter if there was one machine to land at midnight or in the middle of the night, there was always a bus available. It is also important to maintain a low level of service because there is plenty to show up when the terminal is full of passengers to drive them into town, for example. When the London machine arrives at midnight with 50 passengers in the winter, it is as much interest to be at the airport and then drive passengers into town. Let's just keep it all in our heads while we're going through it. So I'd like to commend the minister for allowing us to participate in this discussion and discuss the situation here. Before I open my speech, I want to talk about competition along this way. It was to include the way out, and the competition was to be there. If there had been profit on that route, it was to be used to pay off public transportation on the Southnes, and even had been spoken of as having that subsidies opportunity for other rural areas in the country, as this was part of the whole country when a connection with the airport was involved. In many parts of the North, this is the area in most parts of the world. The European Union has passed judgment on this matter, and it has been questioned that this needs to be in a special private setting. I think we need to make sure that Bus, whether it's in Smokeytown or in Selephoss, or where he comes from, is not picking up tourists and taking them across the country. These are passengers who go around the country to stop on glorious places around the country and take their commander along on trips. Of course, there are no public transportation and Bus to be picked up such passengers, no more than the fact that groups of aviators are expected to pick up passengers waiting for a bus, but this has been a failure. It's like a fight between companies trying to get themselves into business is obviously a pain in the ass. At the end of the day, I say, there's a lot of good things in this bill, but we need to secure public transportation in the country, which is most important. In recent months and in recent years, rural communities have demonstrated that they have built a magnificent system that meets the demands of the country's inhabitants. During the council, it is important for us to stand with our rural communities and stand with the people of the country for powerful public transportation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u53	Mr. President. I recommend to the employment committee's committee's committee's committee's committee's committee's committee's committee's opinion of a change of bill to legalize the appeals of new investments in Iceland. The committee has discussed the matter and had a meeting with a number of visitors I'm not going to list all of them. The bill is suggested to reimburse the total law on the social and social institutions of government and rural society as a result of new investments in Iceland. The goal is to stimulate and promote new investors in the business. The bill is based on law on coincidences to new investors in Iceland, No. 99/2010, which fell out at the end of 2013. If there are specific laws on the granting of such events, the process will be more efficient and will not need to be a special basis for each investment project and looking for the approval of the EFTA Agency each time. The main points of the bill are in Article 5. is conditional for the wills. For example, a special company on the national project should be established, as well as at least 75% of investment costs should be funded without any government support, of which at least 20% of the candidate's own money. At the same time, there is a requirement for a yearly application of at least 300 million. K. or that the new investor has a minimum 20 year job for the applicant during the first two years of the operation. For example, the candidate should show that his investment will not be reimbursed. Government sources for conformity are based on 61,◯64. par. The EEA Convention, such as its sources, has been developed more by the EFTA monitoring centre. In the bill, it is expected that it would be able to obtain up to 15% of the defined investment costs. For medium-sized enterprises it is the maximum price of 25% for investments but for small enterprises it is a maximum of 35%. In the 3rd. The bill is defined as being small, medium-sized and large enterprises. Eight. is mentioned on the subject of major tax and tax abnormalities. The applicant will enjoy a 15% income tax ratio instead of 20%, a lower real estate tax and a lower insurance bill, as well as tolls and markets due to import and purchase for specific resources. According to Article 11. will be assigned to a special committee that will review applications and call for data. Commenting on the case of the committee, a comment was made that it was not found in the bill on general access regulations as it was in IV. section No. 99/2010. It was noted by the Department of Employment and Development that national legislation on the grounds of further investment initiatives on the basis of EU Regulation on general population resources that have been called GBER rules, which were valid for July 1st, 2014. It stipulates that can be implemented without the obligation to seek the approval of the EFTA Agency and without regard to location. In this Regulation, specific classes of assistance, maximum support ratios and criteria for translucency are given as assistance. Examples of classes include community support, research and development aid, support for energy and environment, aid from repairing high-speed networks, culture and preserving cultural heritage, energy infrastructure, audio and image media, and assistance to repair damages due to certain natural disasters. Based on a team 2.mgr. 7. The bill is that the amount of requisition should not exceed what is necessary to make the project profitable enough. A comment on whether a project was sufficiently profitable was not fully understood. It is clear that it may be difficult to appreciate, but it was noted by the Ministry to comply with the guidance of the EFTA Monitoring Programme, which clearly establishes that the premise of government support is that those involved in the investment can demonstrate an incentive for incarceration. Among other things, similar investment projects are looked forward to, and such are the requirements of the loan stakes, the cost of financing the project, and the profit of their own money. Building support must be in accordance with the EEA contract and is proposed to change the behaviour of investors and to encourage further investments in the affected area. If an investment became a reality without intention, it would be thought to be a government help that would not be compatible with the EEA Convention. For a discussion of the matter, we discussed how the idea of coincidence would be kept, and how it would be observed. 16th degree. The bill discusses the Isthmian surveillance, but it recommends that the head of the Ministry send a annual report on the progress of the investment project, the role in its progress, and so on. The Ministry shall also report to the Ministry each year on the total budget provided by state support for each project. In addition, the Ministry and Company are required to have mutual information as regards informing of events that may influence the value of agreements made. If the bill is legalized, the duties of the government and authority as a result of monitoring the use of the powers are expected to increase considerably from the law of No. 99/2010. In addition, the "F" team is 14. It should be noted that in an investment agreement between the candidate and the minister, monitoring and reimbursement should be required if the conditions of the contract are not met. As discussed on the matter, the Ministry of Business and Development and the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs were holding out the amount of money in an effort to calculate the government's government's financial support for investment projects. It will be calculated as an indiscriminate attempt for each year by a form of injuration. Governments should monitor the use of the company by calling for information on tax and tax pay on a yearly basis. It was also noted that if a corporation has fully used government support within the period mentioned in an investment agreement, the government will stop further requests for a project. If there is an altruism above what is stated in the relevant agreement, then the government requires a reimbursement of the difference, as stated in Article 17. the bill on recall and/or reimbursement. The Committee received comments on the legal rights and rights of real estate, No. 19/1966, that there is reason to cancel regulations for maximum rent time and property. The Commission considers it normal to have such laws in the legislation that is being revised in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The committee points out that the bill does not change from the lost law on indiscretions, No. 99/2010, with respect to taxes and expenditures. The tax anomalies are clearly defined, and the conditions of infallibility are clear. To this end, the maximum allowed community support has been made, as mentioned at 7th. ...,be evaluated at the Ministry, but due to the EEA Convention, this should be done when granting federal grants in the form of community support. The Council has consulted the EFTA Management Board for the implementation of the evaluation and is expected in the bill to include a secretary's Regulation on further regulations for the assessment of the maximum authorised community support. It was observed in the treatment of the case that the expiration rules in the bill were made greater than those which are generally measured by the tax laws. " The Law of the Law of the Christ, " No. 99/2010, this is the law of earlier investment agreements. On the part of the Ministry, it was noted that this law of the older law had not been made difficult. In terms of a discount of an insurance fee, it was discussed on the subject that such an injury is important, as it were, at the beginning of the operation. Salaries are often a high proportion of total cost, especially in smaller and medium-sized companies. According to the Ministry, similar laws from older law have not led to problems. A consideration of the case presented the view that 20% of their money could be viewed as too low, and thus there would be a small table for the performance of unexpected events. The Commission points out that 20% of the share is in force by older law and is also in accordance with EU legislation on the provision of community support. If there were a higher proportion, the new competitiveness of the country is likely to be affected. In the c- team 5. it is set to be one of the requirements for granting indiscriminately that the planned investment projects are not started prior to signing the invitation agreement. It was noted that an investment project could be unclear. It was announced to the Commission on the basis of the Department of Employment and Development that the Ministry will set up a Regulation on the grounds of the law, which may include: This point would be clarified. This is recommended in the guidance of the EFTA Ministry, which is the start of a project based on the introduction of human activities or the non-addressing commitment to the provision of equipment or other irreversible investment decisions. In this regard it is generally not the beginning of an investment project that has been purchased by property or that other preworks have been carried out by the project, such as applying for permission or performing a dependencies. C-E-R-E-T. is an environmental assessment set out as one condition of discrimination and is referred to as a legislation on the environmental assessment of the estimates, No. 105/2006. It was explained that the condition could become a bottleneck and result in unnecessary arraignment. The committee points out that the law is mistakenly referred to law No. 105/2006. The Commission suggests an adjustment to the legislation to indicate an assessment of environmental impact, no. 106/2000. At the same time, the Commission suggests that the applicant should be aware of the need to assess the environmental impact, i.e. that there is information on this. However, evaluation of environmental effects is not necessary. 3 mg. Section 8. The bill shows that the variation from common tax and tax regulations has been paid for for ten years since the signing of a society in question has been paid or tax, but never longer than thirteen years. No. 99/2010, the initial time point would have been relative to the formation of tax or tax dues. The Committee suggests a change in this reality, i.e. that there is a starting point when paying due on taxes and paying a price, or that, would develop. Then the commission suggests a change of 9th. that there is also a case that allows community assistance to be in the form of a specific reduction in the size of the punitive tax as determined by the government. The Commission suggests that the bill will be agreed with the following modification: 1st K-alongs 5. As stated: Information is available on whether investment projects depend on environmental assessments based on environmental impact assessments, No. 106/2000. 2. Instead of the words of a resounding society, there has been a payment of the 3rd mg. Section 8. come: payables were formed or formed because of. 3. At 1st. Count 9. add-on to a new case, as follows: There may also be a special reduction in the number of cross-cutting costs as determined by rural management. In advance, Ólafsdóttir writes this in view of the committee, since there is virtually no reason for the so - called generalities of the bill and feels very urgent that it will speed up the preparation for the introduction of such rules on the country. This is essential for a innovation and starter company that do not agree with this bill. The one standing here, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, was absent from the case, but literature considers this in advance at 4 mg. 18th par. Organizations for the Council of the Council. Ásmundur Friðriksson and Páll Pálsson were absent from the case. Under these publications, President Jón Gunnarsson, Björt Ólafsdóttir, Lilja Rafney, Möller Sæmundsson, Sigurður O. O. Örn Ágústsson, and Egilsdóttir Eglsdótir. I'd like to finally underscore my warning on this matter, but he's really on the same page as the other. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir set in advance. I believe there is a great need for rules of generalism to appear as soon as possible so that the rules can be introduced here in the country for innovation and sceptre companies that do not fit in with this bill. Then I have a specific advance notice of the change that the Committee suggests regarding the 1st and 2nd points of the case, i.e. that environmental assessments don't have to be initially available, I want to look into what it really means, and what it means is that, based on the timing of a payment warrant, or developed, is a change from that which was adopted in 2010 on the subject of tolerance. Otherwise, I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u54	A respectable president. I just wanted to come up here and briefly explain my warning about this bill to legalize the coincidences of new investors. He looks, as a messenger read just before, that this is especially the case with the so - called generalities found in the laws adopted by the General Assembly in 2010. The general attractions, in short, refer to sceptical and innovation companies, but these are mainly applicable and, in fact, only larger companies or industry. I think it's urgent that we place a frame of coincidences to a major industry. I've never been particularly fond of a big industry, I admit it, but a factory isn't like a factory, and we're supposed to look at it in a wide context. The point is, I feel like we're starting at the wrong end. I think it's far more important to join the laws of this general part of the indiscretions in order to gain better control over many spades and innovations. It's my belief that they'd be better off sponsoring business in a more sustainable way than we know about industry. This is my big case in advance. It appeared to the Ministry to put these so - called general desires into a form and make it possible for ESAs to think, if you can say so, that they fall under that framework and we now have this bill, and it's good and blessed. But we often have to wait for good things here at the council, and I'm afraid we'll wait too long and I'd have considered it more correct to start at the other end, there's more to it. Then, of course, let us discuss each of the projects that will be involved in this system of things. They can be many and varied, and that is a different arm and must be viewed separately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u55	A respectable president. I'd like to present a bill to legalize the law of No. 98/2004, on the equation of electricity distribution costs, with subsequent changes, an equation. According to current legislation, the costs of public users due to the distribution of electricity in areas where the Energy Agency has authorized special rural expenditures are expected to be paid on the basis of individual budgets. For subsidies, the average cost of distribution for users on energy unit is greater than the threshold involved in the highest urban distribution fee. Therefore, it is assumed that the amount determined on budgets for this equation will be proportionately divided by energy consumption in rural areas compared to the cost of diffuser production above the branch Regulation set by the Minister. Since 2005, contributions have been made annually to further the budget for the four quarters of 04-585, the annual budget for the distribution of electricity, and are in budgets for 2014 estimated 544 million. K. to this equation. In the country, six dispersible reserves are being run for electricity, and two of them distribute a substantial portion of the electricity on a so - called rural account. In 2005, 230 million were sufficient. K. to the full equation, but since then there have been considerable increases in distributionregions, including due to the general index increase, and the total cost is now estimated to be about 1 billion. According to the department's employment and innovation plans. The bill of this, now remanded from the last council, is expected to provide a specific equation of the electricity available through the distribution network of diffusers with the aim of meeting the full range of costs for the distribution of electricity to public users, i.e. Houses and companies that receive their electricity directly from the diffusers. Since aluminium and other major sectors receive their energy directly from the Landsnet transport system, but not through the network, they will not pay this particular equation fee. Total energy consumption into the distribution network of diffusers is about 3,380 GWst, of which about 510 GWst is limited. Because it's less secure, it's worth less than a priority. It is estimated that the price will be paid in two stages over the next two years and that it will eventually be 0.30 k/kWst on priority energy, which will make income around 862 million. K. (2874 GWst at 0.30), and 0.10k/kWt equations on unsecured energy that makes up about 51 million. K. Thus, total income is expected to be about 913 billion. K. in 2016. The first step to the pressures of the pay will be started next year, with an estimated 2/3 of these earnings coming in, or about 608 million. K. This new income would be added to the previously mentioned 240 million. K. Documents already existing in the 2013 Law to the equation. If this plans for the recording of an equation fee is followed, the employment and innovation department estimates that the average increase in energy balance of the user in urban areas will be 2.4% or approximately 1800 to 1,920 k. every year, based on 0.3k/kWst. , and that rural electricity costs will, however, decrease by 8.3% or by 8,760 to 10,680 k. every year. According to average use of public electricity households, there are about 5,000 kWst a year. Energy agencies are expected to care for the balance fees for state funds, and it should be paid on December 1 each year. So I'm going to read the Commission opinion of the proposal for a bill to correct a change in law No. 98/2004, on the equation of electricity distribution costs, with subsequent changes from the greater part of the labour committee. The Committee has discussed the matter and has received its meeting with the town of Helga Barðadóttir and Ingvi Pá Pálsson from the Department of Employment and Development, Benedikt Guðmundsson and Sigurður Ingi Fräða Friðleifsson of the Energy Institute, Gunnlaugur Júlíusson of the European Union Society, Valur Hafþórsson from the Coalmics of the Cold Areas, Halldór Árnason of the Associations of Employment, and the Bjarni Már Gylfason of the Industrial Union. This committee received reviews of the case from the graff, HSS hosts hf., Energy Company Western Ohf., ECU Reykjavík, Rarik Ohf., Union, Industrial Association, and rural communities in cold areas. The bill of the same material was presented to 143th, a legislature, but failed to succeed. According to the legislation on the equation of the costs of the distribution of electricity, the costs of distribution of electricity into rural areas should be paid if it exceeds the specific threshold. Since 2005, funds have been given each year to cover the costs and the budget has been unchanged at this time or in some 240 million. K. However, the cost of a full equation is in line with the law estimated at 1 billion dollars. The bill suggests that a special equation will be set on the electricity of the diffusers to receive from the Landsnet transport system or directly from activation to withdraw the electrical energy that leaves the distribution system into the transport system. The objective of the bill is to ensure more fully the cost of electricity to be distributed by law. It is expected that the fee will be paid in two stages and at 0.30 a.m. every kilohour of priority energy and 0.1 k. on non-secure energy (saturable energy). Thus, the total income will be 913 billion. K. in 2016. The price will be lower in 2015 or 0.20 k. per kilogram hour of priority energy and 0.066 kns. Untrusted energy. It is estimated that in 2015 the income will be about 608 billion. K. which will be in addition to 240 million. K. contribution to the budget, but it is expected that once the currency is fully submitted by 2016, it will drop. The greater part of the report shows that an increased contribution is expected to be made to subsidies on house warming in budgets for 2015. It is about 57 million. K. to discuss. The more part points to what has been reported by the government is to propose a judicial resolution to achieve the Council's decision on longer periods of policy-making to fully cover the costs of transport and distribution of electrical energy to house heating since 2016. To achieve that goal, it is estimated that more subsidies are needed for house - to - house warming by 240 million. K. The majority suggest that the bill be agreed with the following modification: From January 1, 2015, to Article 4, we have the words "Come to Action. " ... goout. General Assembly, December 10, 2014. Jón Gunnarsson, Ásmundur Friðriksson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Páll Pálsson, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, and Þórunn Egil's Egilsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his speech here and for the conclusion of a major part of the job committee. It is now that at a meeting of the government, which was held on April 5, 2011, it was agreed that the Coalition was to be carried out in cold areas to seek ways to reduce and equalize house heating costs, followed by the Ministers of Industrial Ministers, Ministers of Economic Affairs, and four representatives of the Company in cold areas and also members of the Raikks and Energy Vestjörður. The staff then returned their report to the Industrial Minister in December 2011. V.E.G. The current president of the Generals gave a bill that was in line with the results of this group, both for the 141th and for the 142th Parliament. It's at the top now. Industrial Minister forwards this bill and more of it all. The job committee does not want to take the seemingly acceptable route, the way the staff suggested. I want to ask you why. A senator's proposal of the work group, which was not recognized by a major part of the employment committee, and why it has not been proposed in a report of the work group.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u57	Thank you very much. The foreman of the question. I can't quite tell her about it, but, of course, there are some ways to this end. I have, for example, been able to imagine that the cost of hot water in hot areas could have been subsidized. I would have thought it was an excellent way, actually, provided for it myself, and I would have felt there were other ways to do it. This was the result of what we did on the committee, and this is really the answer I can give her to this question right now because I don't have my report.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u58	Mr. President. I suppose for what? The work programme has discussed the work group's report and its results. There's a big difference over there on the bill as a whole. The employment committee recommends that the results and results of the work group should be agreed in their own time. Among other things, these suggestions will be appropriate. A senator recommends that there be a approval, a proposal of a home in urban areas more than expected in the group's proposals. The difference may be mainly that this will go through a distribution system according to these proposals, but according to the proposal of the staff, it would have been put on a minimum of one - pound - hour schedule. I want to ask you why. For example, if this route has gone by, a senator will not work hard on rural farms. At the same time, the major industry is completely released, but it was not expected in the group's proposals. I want to pray. A senator should use that time, though short, to argue that it is a better way to put more spells in urban areas and in Icelandic garden farmers in urban areas than to have everyone buying electricity pay a certain price, thus making a fortune.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u59	A respectable president. Thank you very much. A senator for the questions. This was handled on the committee, and it was correct that the senator mentioned that it could have been done on the way that the industry had been involved in subsidies of this electricity. That's exactly what we're talking about here. It was not a willingness to do so on the committee. As far as I know it would have been necessary for a considerable change in law and dealings with the big business to be successful. I'm not quite smart at those deals. Such contracts were somewhat temporary. But I agree that there are few, of course, when this route is chosen, that is clear. So I was relatively excited to enter the hot water. However, the members of the capital area were not willing to do so, and so today Iceland's scandal bitch is that they do not want to go that way. It would have been a natural price that would have been very low on each one, that's perfectly clear. This, therefore, is the conclusion that we find in the majority of the world that lies before us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u60	A respectable president. I would like to recommend my committee party on this bill. I did not agree with the way most of the employment committee wanted to go on the case, though the good business of equalizing the cost of electricity distribution is different, but it does not matter how it is done. I agree with the objective of a current law to contribute to the equation of the costs of the distribution of electricity to the public, the common resource of the nation. But I disagree with the path of the bill, i.e. to be given a specific price on the dispersible pantheon. According to the bill, local tax will be adopted and, especially, a urban company to finance rural subsidies. If the bill is legal, it will lead to increased expenditures of homes, companies and rural communities into urban areas. According to the bill, from 2005 onward, 240 million were spent annually. K. of budgets to balance the cost of electricity distribution. It also shows that the cost of the total equation in accordance with the law is now estimated to be about 1 billion. In terms of a smaller portion, or my opinion, the project is common to all members of the community and normal, to ensure a sufficient contribution to funds rather than add additional fees to some. There are some who pay, it's urban and urban, not even the whole country. It was noted to the Committee that the tax represented by the bill will increase the power balance of households and, above all, the urban business. Simple companies such as bakery, laundry, or just any company that uses large amounts of electricity will see an increase in the cost of their electrical bills. This increase affects the index of consumer prices. A number of people who expressed themselves to the committee felt that it was surprising that taxation was not a factor in the management of the bill, but it might be clear that electricity costs are of serious importance to many companies. Comments by the bill show that the equation of electricity distribution will have a small impact on the index value of consumer prices. Many of us disagreed greatly with this statement, and we noted, among other things, that urban areas using high electricity would have to accept a billion - dollar increase in electricity cost per year, with the appearance of an equation and that such increase would result in a general price. A lower share of 1 considers it more convenient for state funds to finance such social activities with tax money, rather than for their energy companies to collect taxes to equalise the cost of electricity distribution. Finally, I'd like to say, more dignified President, that I agree with both views. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. Harðardóttir daughter and two smaller parts of the Committee, although I've chosen to go another way, the major industry's been completely taken out. The market and employment expenses are being paid, all but industry. You must ask yourself why it's done. It was declared that treaties could not be changed. But you see a lot of things being done in this room, and I don't think it was fully tried, really, in any way, because the committee didn't discuss these matters, unfortunately. My main involvement is this: I don't think it's fair to add curses to urban areas to the good purpose, though, to balance this cost, but everyone will have to compare it if they go along that way. And so I think it would be the right thing to do for the public tax money.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u61	Mr. President. I would like to recommend a committee party with a bill-changing motion to legalize the law of No. 98/2004, on the equation of electricity distribution costs, with subsequent changes (counsels), from the job board. Another lower part of it feels strongly that it contributes to the equation of emissions of electricity for users in rural areas, but does not agree with the cost-separating method recommended in the bill, suggesting that there be special fees or 0.30Ks. every kilowatt time and 0 0 0K. every lousy kilowatt of dispersible stores. A lower portion of the bill considers the cost of equalizing the cost of electricity distribution to be critical and thus contributes to another means of financing of the project. Another lower part of the estimate is that house - to - house expenses will be increased, as per house - to - house subsidies, No. 78/2002. Commenting on the case of the committee, there was an idea that house - to - house subsidies would be put first. In the end, this proposal could not be expected, but a lower 2 is considered important, as it has been noted, before the cost of transporting electricity will be increased if subsidies for house warming are increased. Another lower point points out that there is a work group report on changes in house warming subsidies since 2011, a workforce for the Ministry of Industrial Affairs that has been brought to attention here. The group suggested that the equation be set for each produced kilohour as sensitive to the costs needed to reimburse each time to full transport and distribution of electricity for the upkeep of housing. There were three kinds of suggestions in the group. It was suggested that a fundamental change in the subsidies system be made so that the transfer and distribution of electrical energy to the heating of an apartment building would be fully subsidized. The system would then be automatically where changes in the performance of electrical distribution would be performed automatically without any particular decision having to be made. The change in financing of subsidies was also proposed. The proposals of the group included, as mentioned earlier, an equation that would be paid for each produced kilogram - hour and sensitive to the costs necessary at any given time in order to fully subsidize the transport and distribution of electricity to warm up apartment living. These were proposed to provide a number of methods that would cover further fossil development and improve energy efficiency, in order to form an equation that would be applied to heat plants, similar to electricity production, which could always ensure the access and growth of geothermals. A proposal was also made to extend to up to 12 years if needed. The report noted that about 10% of the population did not have access to a biohazard system and that heating by electricity or in some cases was much more expensive than those with a geologic irrigation system. It was then found that during 2005/2010, the gap between electrical heating and geologic warming was steadily increasing, although decisions were not made to reduce the costs between zones. This was said to be because the price of geothermals and electrical heating had increased without the fact that the cost of subsidies had followed that trend. The Outfit felt that the reason could be largely due to the arrangement of the subsidies system itself, where the amount of money had to be reimbursed in a complex environment rather than a greater inequities of political will. The assessment of the work group was also made that the current system could be regarded as complex, ostentatious to consumers and based on continuous updates that would be based on a difficult estimate of the extent of subsidies each time. Another smaller point points out that according to Article 5. legal on environmental and resource taxes is passed tax on electrical energy and hot water of less than 13 dollars per kilohour of sold electricity and 2% of retail prices on hot water. This taxation will fail at the end of this year. In 2015 it is assumed that the government's income from the tax will be less than 2.2 billion. A lower share suggests that this taxation will be maintained and that income from the tax will continue to cover the costs of the distribution of electricity and the subsidies of house - to - house heating costs. However, the tax will be reduced to the number required to live under this equation, along with the contribution of state funds, so that the transfer and distribution of electrical energy to build an apartment building will be fully supplied to all users. An consideration of the matter was made that in order to balance fully this year's costs for the distribution of electricity and paying down the cost of house warming, the state budget needs about 410 million. K. In addition to today's funds. A smaller section suggests that once this year's additional contribution is made and put out, it will be restored to the full next year. A small share suggests that the tax amount will be halved, while it will be temporarily higher in 2016 to pay back the government budget in 2015. Finally, 2 smaller items agree that the price index of Raiks' distribution would rise by every year by 28 aura/kwst. which corresponds to an average of about 3% increase in prices. Based on company information, the accounts for general use increased less due to a reduction in the value tax or, on average, 1.8% but to a home with electrical heating, the value tax increased by more or more than 9.3%. Based on information from the Energy Farm of the West, the price log for rural electricity was increased by 10%. The committee reported that the main explanation for these increases was that a donation was not expected in 2015, since the bill had not been legal. Another smaller section suggests that the bill will be accepted by the following change: 1st Instead of the words, ◯ in line with collecting an equation fee. Section 3. 1st paragraph 5 will be: in accordance with the collection of electricity taxes. 2. 2.g. Speak as well as a headline. After 3rd. The law's coming up with a new branch, 3rd par. a, as well as a heading, as follows: Electric tax due to the distribution of electrical energy. In order to maintain the current impact on the costs of the distribution of electricity to public users according to these laws, a special tax of the sold electricity should be paid to the state. IRS according to Article 1. it should be 0.065 per kilohour of electrical energy sold. Exploitation, reconstitution and collection are based on environmental and resource taxes laws, No. 129/2009. 3. Section 3. ... goout. 4. Section 4. put it this way: This law goes into effect on January 1, 2016. Despite 2 mg. 2.g. the amount of the tax that will be given 1.mg. 2.g. During 2016, there are 0.091 per kilowatts of electricity sold. Under the view of 2nd memory of Kristján L. Möller's publications and Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir. There has been a lot of talk about the equation of electrical energy and the equation of house - to - house heating costs, and if you had so much wanted to see that it was through. The group of patients who suggested that the project be submitted would be 0.30 k. Every time you made a kilowatt, the suggestions were very good and very strange that the current more things should not be recorded. But I find it quite unacceptable now that we go to this equation, which, of course, is long now timely, in this way to leave big users entirely, that they are not involved in the social responsibility that I believe is to be, that there is an equal need for all the people of this country to hold, electricity and heating up their houses, that he is the exception. Of course, they are directly involved when these taxes are removed at the end of this year, to continue the taxation process, but they are now using the equation of the distribution of electricity and house - to - house heating for the benefit of all the citizens of the country. As this looks now, the bill and the proposals of a greater part of the employment board, many telecommunications that live on telecommunications will be very difficult for these inter-individual equations and will take on a much greater rise. I can name Ólafsvík, the Western Islands, and other places where telecommunications are, and power is the main source of electricity. So I call on the regional Parliaments who have been concerned with the national interests of this community and are in the management team, to examine what is going on there, and to see if the suggestions cannot be considered as far as 2 smaller things are concerned that the industry is involved in this community-based project, and thus we could strike two flies at once and go faster in order to balance the cost of house warming as well, not just the distribution of electricity.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u62	Mr. President. I just want to discuss these suggested suggestions, and in fact, it is surprising that the highest. Industrial Minister and more things just a little bit. The employment committee should suggest this. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir applied well to suggestions made in 2011 by an appointed group, presented to a professional body committee and a legal committee in 2012. They went on to charge for every selling electrical energy hour, and both the house - to - house heating and electrical cost would be equal in this way. These suggestions were given by the Governing Body and included the highest possible suggestions. U.S. president of the Generals, then. A senator, Einar K. Guðfinnsson, presents a bill that was completely in harmony with the proposals of the staff. The bill was presented for 141 and 142th, but it did not cover many parts, but it was clear that that there was a good swing and that it would have been a good basis for continuing work on these terms. I'd like to take it down a little bit with this bill, but it's just about a reduction in house - to - house heating costs in the top areas where it's been, where it's been big for years. Some amount of money has been determined on budgets and inequities over the years, so it is important to put this group together and give some suggestions to match it up. This cost is getting very heavy in the home accounting of those living in cold areas. In a paper with a bill on the then hand. paritaprevir Einar K. The Son of Guðfinnsson, now the highest. The President of the Generals, says: ▪ About 90% of Icelanders have access to cheap and environmentally friendly geothermal temperatures in the form of geothermal rocks. However, about 10% of the population do not have access to this resource and need to be used in electrical or oil. Such heating is far more expensive and to prevent much of the country's population from paying much higher prices for the warming of housing is electricity and oil for subsidies. The measures required to reduce the house - to - house warming cost, therefore only about 10% of homes in the country, should be manageable. The bill follows very closely the method produced by the staff; the suggestions are responsible and realistic. The service group developed various advantages, both with regard to the natural goal of caring for the balance of house - to - house heating costs as well as their financing. It is then noted that this group was appointed representatives of the areas that have high house - to - house expenses and thus have a good knowledge of the problem we face. The report says that he also served representatives of the government, so the proposals may be considered supportive, and finally there were specialized members who have studied these matters. The report also speaks of assuming that there was a successful political agreement, a call for house - to - house action, came from all political groups, that at the General Assembly, these cases were often discussed, and that so far the process was used to rely on subsidies that have caused uncertainty and fluctuations in the cost of house warming. However, the proposals of the work group are expected to be in place by paying a special fee for sold kilowatts sufficient to cover fully the spread of energy so that house warming costs can be dropped in the areas in which it is now the highest. It has been shown in studies that this high cost, both due to electricity and house warming, involved in the purse of a limited part of the country, affects habitats. It is not attractive for humans to settle where house - to - house expenses are much higher than in urban areas. That's why I support these actions, and it's urgent, but I criticize the route I've taken. The way they're suggesting here and more things already are. The employment committee supports, and the highest. Industrial and commercial ministers focus on the price, providing the expense for urban homes and every company in the country except the industry; the industry does not use distribution systems, and there is a major industry outside this. But we're talking about institutions where electricity costs are going to rise a lot. I can name the Land Hospital, as an example, a gardener who has so far complained about a high electrical price. Parking farms in urban areas that receive electricity through the network will naturally have to pay the price as well as others. So it's professional life, institutions, all in urban areas but industry. It's not fair and it's impossible to accept, Mr. President. So there is an increase in urban population. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir called telecommunications, which, for example, are used in the Western Islands. There the price will go up considerably. The proposals of the 2nd-mind object, which I think are very good and that are in line with the results of the group of work, are expected to continue the energy tax to run its course for the next year. True, it will be lower, because it does not need the same rank as it is now to live up to this equation. I think that's a very good way and fair way. I think it's important that the executives take it over with us, before this bill goes to pay for it, why they think it's an unattainable route. What's illegal about that route? There, all who buy electricity pay a price, and it's only fair that this is how the equation works, but it's not set up, those who are on top of this expense, that your home in urban rural areas, but that the industry that buys 80% of the electricity doesn't have to pay anything, and that we've had nothing to do with this important community project that we've had to solve for many years and that we've tried to solve in a number of ways that we didn't do well. However, it is very good for anyone buying electricity to pay a price and then the price to be fixed so that the conditions in cold areas will be as attractive as the habitat conditions in densely populated areas. I challenge 'em. Generals, who are expected to follow this opinion in greater measure. Business committees, that they review these matters and try to convince those who are standing here and others who are not interested in this way that they are good and that they are righteous and that it is a very fair matter to separate the big business, that they should not participate in the equations set out here - that it should be balanced with the increase of budgets in the land and important institutions and occupations other than the big business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u63	A respectable president. Here's another bill coming in a few days or weeks we'll talk from the highest level. Prime Minister Árnadóttir Elín for new taxes. The last was the tax known as the erection or the natural pass, and here we have a special urban tax. More and more people must be thinking about what tax joy is beginning to take over the Ministry of Industrial Affairs after the Ragnheiður of Árnadóttir Yearnad took over there, for so far the financial and economic authorities have handled the tax issues in the country. Thus, it is inquisitive to see that a unique professional minister makes two major prime returns to new taxes for his party. This is first of all evolution, which is a reason to warn. V.E.G. The Minister of Ragnheiður Elín Árnadóttir is not the only professional minister who's interested in laying on new taxes and new fees to finance some project in his Ministry. If there is a general practice in the government that the Ministers will bring in new taxes in order to cost a few aspects of their language before we will be viewed as much tax and tax-industrial forests of a wide variety of marked new taxes and new complications of the tax system. Perhaps there is another reason why this is surprising from the highest point of view. Industrial Minister Ragnheiður Árnadóttir that the minister in his political life did not speak specifically for tax promotions and, I thought, in fact, more so than trying to complicate the tax system. But this bill, just as it was before, is certainly meant to complicate the tax system. Here's a new tax, urban tax. Not just in Reykjavík but in all the urban areas around the country, he lays upon us to do certain tasks that the minister is interested in. So it's a second step at the Minister's office in a short time to complicate the local tax system, which, in fact, I thought the minister would have felt that it was too complicated and would have to be more simple than complicated. In other words, there has been a taxpayer at the Ministry of Industrial Affairs, and the project of that minister seems to be, in fact, getting the tax system out of place even more so. The balance of the cost of living in this country was easy, and the task was a broad political solidarity. This is a fine example of how this government seems to be going to succeed in disrupting all the solidarity that it can screw up. Even in the past, a joint decision was made by representatives of all classes on how to handle the situation will succeed. The industrial minister to destroy the solidarity by choosing to have this tax much higher than was expected in the transnational, inter - political proposal that all classes made, they have a much higher tax rate for ordinary people living in urban areas around the country, small and large, and all the commercial life in the country. And for what? Yes, for the sole purpose of protecting the industry from participating in the cost of transporting electricity in the country. The fact that this issue has twice failed to be carried out, not being legal, and not being carried out, is that it has leveld the emissions of electricity for the benefit of people in the suspension areas that would likely have been due to the failure of the minister to address it. It has no power to say it at the highest. Ministers that the industry could be involved in such costs as everyone else. Had she agreed that it would be long ago, subsidies would pay on the transportation costs in the scattered areas of the country. That would probably have happened about a year ago. But the Minister's will to further increase taxes on ordinary people of the country, ordinary companies, and the exception of the big business in particular has made the matter as far as it really is concerned. It is thus designed that neither the great justice issue should be addressed immediately, which is a further equation of house - to - house warming costs, but as we know it, they are being torn in the land. So it is a special joy to see a change from 2nd to a smaller part in this matter. They assume that the industry is involved in these costs. This is only 6 cents per kilohour, making the current fees will still be reduced, despite their paying 6 cents per kilogram of the hour for these projects. This would enable the immediate use of the extra equation of house - to - house heating costs as well as the equation of the distribution cost of electricity. I don't understand how the Minister is drawn along by the executives in the process of laying on 30 drier urban taxes just to protect the big business from being involved in some of the cost. I don't believe it until I do a vote tomorrow that management teams are not ready to take part in carrying that cost along with other companies in the country and the rest of the country. To be honest, that's all I believe. It is, in fact, surprising that in effect, members of the Agency and the Independence Party believe that their homes in the country are better equipped to take on tax increases because of this project than their hard work, that taxation is more to be done in the country's homes than making the big business involved in the cost. It's sort of an amazing message to the homes of the country, the ones these same senators have been saying they're protecting, that it calls at least it is understood here in speeches, some members of the management team, how they justify going into urban taxation to protect the big business.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u64	A respectable president. As soon as I'm glad that this bill is here for release, I'm sorry that it wasn't done by the end of the year because the electrical price would have dropped on January 1. But let us not wonder why it did not go through, but it was considerate of the opposition, that we were trying to meet her, and unfortunately it did not work out. I'd like to point out the cause and need of this law. Law No. 98/2004, on the eco-efficiency costs of electrical energy distribution, the costs of the distribution of electricity into rural areas should be paid down, then beyond the limit of the highestlet of urban distribution as funds are provided. The cost of transporting electricity is much higher in rural areas than in urban areas, thus providing urban fees substantially higher than the reserves for urban electricity distribution. It is not clear that there is a greater rate in rural areas in the near future, with fewer and fewer people living under the cost of that system. Meanwhile, the number of users in urban areas increases and thus the efficiency of the network. It has been suggested that high taxes on rural distribution costs contribute to a greater decrease in population size, loss of job management, and related negative effects. At the scene of the Ministry, the Power Institute and in collaboration with the Union, there has been a recent way of dealing with the problem and securing better than today, the actual equation is the widespread cost of electricity for public users. The results of this study are here on the bill, which is suggested to include a specific equation of electrical energy across the distribution network of diffusers to meet the full equivalent cost of electricity distribution. The result? The energy proposed is the result of 2014. Based on a tablet from the Power Institute, there was a domestic warming cost on December 31, 2014, 224,689 k. But in the most expensive settlement of 208,431 k. But because the case didn't work out before the New Year's, but assuming it's going to go through now, there's going to be house - to - house warming costs in a rural area on April 1, 2015 211,336 dollars. While he's in the most expensive urban area of 210,864 k. It's less than a thousand bucks. in this case. In the same example, it is assumed that April 1, 2016, the cost of rural house warming will be down to 207,211 k. and in the most expensive urban population of 207,549 k. This is going to be almost a couple. This is a step that is equal to the warming of virtually a building on April 1, 2015. I'm just saying, isn't that a good step? Of course we want to finish it. We want to get it over with. A third part of the work committee, reported: Then the more part points to what has been reported by the government to propose a resolution to be concluded by the Council's decision on longer periods of policy development to fully cover the costs of transport and distribution of electricity to house heating since 2016. I think that there is a full will for everyone up to now, and no less for the members of the council who now sit in more than other members of Congress and even for the counsellors themselves, so I can't help but celebrate this step, but we're not done. We're going to level the cost completely, and I just hope that people will agree and be intervening in it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u65	Madam President. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's reasons why he believes that it is justified in not participating in this social equation, how he can support it. This translates into a dramatic rise in the urbanisation of telecommunications by telecommunication, for example, in Ólafsví and Western countries; this means a dramatic rise for various industrial companies in the region, in these areas, but not in the order to decrease. Why does he believe that the suggestions we offer in less than 2 minas, the tax on electricity, and the hot water today are less than 0.13 k. every kilohour of selling electrical energy and 2% of the retail price on hot water - why it is not normal that when this tax stock runs out at the next year, it can be used to take the step fully and equal the distribution of both electricity and house - to - house payment so that these factors will be fully equal to where people live in the country. It is not necessary to take this in a number of steps if everyone would lean on the radius to achieve this equation. There is no need for us to expand our donations on house - to - house heating as it is now. The Commission's list says that the Parliament's resolution should be submitted to the Council's decision on long-term policies and that it will fully cover the costs of transporting electricity from 2016. There's no question how it will be financed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u66	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir It's the Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney. The questions. For unique places and steps, as I said before, the rich will to do so for everyone -- I can't hear it, I haven't met the man at a council that doesn't agree -- to balance electrical prices anywhere in the country. Whether we do it like that or gay, it's not quite done, I can totally agree with it. I would have wanted to do this one step. But my experience of what happens in here is that it doesn't exactly happen. A lot of things happen here too slow. You can debate why we don't tax big companies. I can, for example, totally agree that it was okay. But my opinion is that without these big corporations, if they didn't have this big business, the distribution would be much more expensive. We benefit from the major industry through our transport system, our electrical transport system, so this is actually being paid down there. Besides that, we are now discussing here and writing various relics about big companies mostly, giving them tax discounts, and some appeals to create jobs. So it's a good idea to start taxing them something special? Of course, it is entirely possible to debate whether they should be involved in this or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u67	Madam President. There's a lot to debate about, too, where the wide banks are. It has been said that the industry is getting the electricity at very low prices, which is why large companies have been harassed to come to the country, i.e. Because energy prices are very low. This price has been given to the industry by the energy tax, which is the environmental and resource expenditure, less than 0.13% and has not complained about it. That price would be reduced because it doesn't take 2.2 billion, as it would cost us to cover the country's full cost of house warming. Thus we could take the step to the full. We've been discussing these matters here for many years, and we've gone all too slowly to do so, even if the will was there. Now they're talking about going this way that the greater part suggests, that this is only the equation within the hosts, which I think is very unfair and treats many settlements and many companies. Once it has entered the system, it is viewed as saving the 240 million that it is now using for subsidies on the distribution of electricity. So should not the State immediately deposit that amount on house - to - house expenses if it is as rich as it is in order to do the work that humans want to be paid? I'm afraid there will not be any demonstrations in the budget. The last budget was difficult to achieve, and the tax on hot water and electricity were used to increase spells on people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u68	A respectable president. If we want the big corporations to pay higher power prices or taxes, whether we call them, we know why. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir as well as I do that there is a great demand for electricity today. There are opportunities to increase electrical prices for heavy industry. How do we do that? We've had a meeting with these agents, and we realize that, and they have explained that at every new power contract they make, the price is rising. It is now a good idea to negotiate with new parties for new macros, about a higher price; when the companies we have today, which have contracts, long-term contracts that are about to expire, energy prices contracts negotiate again, that will increase. [[Set up the social obligations.]] These companies, like all companies, have social obligations, whether small or large. So--yes, yes, and whether it's this money or anyone else. [[Up front.]] I just want to trust that even though it's not completely clear right now, how this will be done that we will.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u69	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. The group quoted in this discussion, which gave up their proposals and introduced them to a financial committee and a trade committee in 2012 looked at the exact matter so that it was a big community project. It is important to balance electricity accounts and house - to - house accounts, to live people, and where people decide to settle, and to live and work in this country. Hence, he proposes that a certain amount be set for each unit of energy. By doing so, both electricity and house - to - house heating costs can be leveled. Those suggestions really impressed me. As for them, it was a good deal for the council, although it has not been successful in bringing them to law, unfortunately, and it can be considered why that bill did not end here on a vote. I want to ask you why. Senator anyway. A professional health - care committee has considered how this increase affects the index and securities of the home? And if the suggestions presented above were calculated compared to the suggestions offered by the cooperate group in 2012?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u70	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir A new Oddný Harðardóttir for the question. We agree that this is a big social project, to level the electricity, no one's arguing about it. We debate how we should do so and what we will do over a long period of time. We missed it. paritaprevir Before long, Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney, the daughter of Magnús, did not trust in the financial value of money coming to this assignment. I can totally agree with that. We all know here that there are many important tasks being done on budgets, so we do not have less community and priorities. But when the cake's not bigger, there's gonna be something left over. But if we are united enough, our priorities will be balanced or we would at least agree on priorities. The effect on the index, I'll just admit that I don't remember exactly how it was compared, whether the two routes were compared with the effect on the index number in mind. I just admit that I don't remember exactly, but that was the conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u71	Madam President. In fact, I think it is very important to see what the bill will do, if it becomes the law, if it is in the index, because it is quite clear that it will increase the power balance of households and institutions in urban areas and urban areas that use public networks. But the industry is left out, not to be involved in this social project, and like that. A senator spoke of the past heavy industry in favor of many things. Got it. A senator would rightly agree that when charged with charge of all who buy electricity in the country, the industry is left out simply because it does not use a distribution system? It acts on me as if I'm being found a way to protect the big business from taking part in the recovery of electricity in the country, participating in this great social project, and leveling conditions. I think it's unfair, and I think it's wrong. I can't believe it didn't happen at the Committee. I want to ask you why. A senator's reaction to this was the case in the case of a representative of professional life. For example, what was the reaction of a baker who uses power? This must be relevant to the environment of such companies. How does this affect a major institution, such as Land Hospital? That's what I'm talking about. A professional health committee to have gone over exactly. I want to pray. A senator to tell me about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u72	A respectable president. It says in the bill that Iceland's Habitat Assessment is an equation charge of electrical distribution, according to the bill, does not affect the index price of consumer prices as long as it works after all the fees that are paid to be paid unsaid for subsidies in certain areas. But the comparison, I don't remember him. The heavy industry lives in an indiscretion, yes, we agree on that. But, hey. Harðardóttir Well, it's often about resource tax, but I've never heard it but when you're talking about a fishing road, they're talking about resource tax. [[The point is, it's wrong...]] Well, I don't remember that, no. We can only wonder if we should start taking the resource costs from these companies, but then we just ask, like the electronics that produce electricity, use water, where does that end? [[Up front.]] Is that not an end to users? The heating system, if we're going to put a resource tax on the heating system, who's gonna pay for it? It's the users, isn't it? It's us. It is the people themselves who use that hot water to warm up their homes. [[The president calls.]] Is it not, then, that you take out one pocket and put it in another? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u73	President. I think it's the third thing I recommend, but the fifth time it is before the General. The bill suggests that the PUBs will be turned into a U.S. election form. I'm not very fond of the word personal term myself, but I don't know any better. It means that voters will be able in the bazaar to mark the names of candidates, not only at lists, but also to the names of candidates. There are many ways to do that, and I will tell more about it in my history. It would, in my opinion, be a great democracy if the bill was done, and why would that be? Yes, because it gives the voter more power in the ballroom. A host can then have a greater impact on who or who will be selected to do so than they can now. At the present time, the order of the classes can be changed, but the effect of the voter in the ballroom is very small. They are much smaller than in the general countries around us, except for elections in Norway, where the same system is in force as here. There, however, is a personal standing in rural governments where voters are more influential than they are in elections for the Council. Some make little distinction between a reagent and a person's opinion, stating that the only thing that the PUB will do is to extend a test to an elected date. That's why I don't agree, and I think it's at least Two important factors that make it impossible to equal the two. First of all, I consider a personal term to be a right to secure a voter in a democracy. The rights should be legal, we are required to have laws that the voters in the jugular can have more effect than they do today. If we agree with it, we can take the example of a reelection between a re-election and a personal term, it is quite clear that political party is in their own jurisdiction whether to hold a re-election or not, and even if it is recorded in political parties, a retesting is very easy to change. Some party members come together to decide that there should be no retests or that the reagents should be otherwise than it was last. Those not in category, i.e. In fact, non-class voters, non-class people, non-class members of Iceland, which are more of the voters, would have nothing to say if the reagents were suspended or changed. It may be added that as the reagents are generally developed, it is only those enrolled in a group or those who have the right to participate in them. It is clear, then, that party bound there have great democratic rights, so to speak, over those who choose not to be partyed. Then people can say: " It's for everyone to join in. ' Of course, those who want to rule political parties say, but I don't think it's that easy, because it's always gonna be so that they party-like would be quite superior to the non-class class because the party-like rules of the arts served. They would've done it more than grouped. I believe there is an interest in taking up a higher personal salary than at present. In this regard, I would like to refer to the vote on November 20, 2012, where it was precisely asked if people would like to expand their personal standing and over 60% of those who participated in the vote would answer yes. So I think it's clear that there's a lot of interest in it in normal people. But I'm quite aware that people who are tied to a political party, and maybe even the people in this hall, aren't very interested in it, because it's not meant for us here but for the general voter. Indeed, there are many methods of personal recognition. In Finland, the voter puts one cross on his name and at the same time gives his vote to the candidate's party. In Sweden, however, the voter does not have the same effect, but he does have a few. There is a list set in advance by the category, but the voter may choose to name only one name. If that name gets an 8% of the terms of the class marked, the candidate comes to and jumps over everyone else. Then there are various ways. In Denmark and Germany, it is a complex system, a personal term, a voter can have relatively large effects, and so it is in the Netherlands. Then, in Britain, for example, there is quite a contrast to the election system. It has a mono-cultural situation, which works differently, and it is not totally possible to make comparisons there. However, there is no greater personality standard than Ireland, where people can choose between classes and just persons. The arrangement laid out in this bill goes beyond the general practice in the countries around us in order that a voter can pay the candidates on more than one list of his votes. According to the bill, the voter has three options. It can mark a letter of art, or he will kill himself to the order of the list, and then the list is determined by the category, so that the party people prefer it to the rest of the group that they do not hire. In other words, the list can be marked, just as we do today. A dresser can also mark with one candidate, and then a vote will be used to use the list that the candidate will get on top of, pick up the list, and the candidate will move up, as you might say, to the top of the list. Third, the voter can exchange his vote on so many candidates that a number of senators are in the relevant district, and he can choose two of a list. If there are five senators, he can choose two by using two names on one list and one on three, and then he has divided his vote into five pieces. A bill with the bill describes how votes match lists and candidates, but in a gross way, the list gets a ratio of votes that depend on how many are marked on it. If there are five seats in the district and on one list are marked with two names, those men there are marked with the votes and then the list, which will be used to calculate equation rules and so on the streets, 2/5. It's a bit complicated, and I'm not going to explain it, but I'm going to point out the paper with the bill that explains it well. What matters is that the vote is simple. It's not complicated to vote, it's just for us and nothing complicated about it. It's a bit complicated to explain how the list calculates this, but it can be said about other election systems, e.g. The d'Hondt rule of our election system. It is not easy to explain, but it is easy to choose, and it is what matters. It's important that the voter is not in trouble when he comes into the basement and knows exactly what to do, and then it's calculated by the experts how it all goes down. A respectable president. I would like to give a brief attention to the influence of a personal term on political and political finances. I'd like to talk about the effect of a perjury on reimbursed agents, such as reimbursement of the lottery, renewing elected agents, i.e. how the elected agents are rollin'. Then I want to introduce what is often said about personal recognition, that it is mostly among those who are famous or known. Finally, I want to talk about its effect on the gender ratio of elected agents. These are the factors that are often mentioned as reasons against a person's reputation. It is obvious that it will be more difficult to maintain financial classes if personal recognition is introduced than if political parties set up an offer list in a platoon. I don't like to think, though, that it's harder to have an individualized value than a re-election, as is customary in this country. Monitoring the legal and financial rules of political parties and politicians need to be taken care of. Whether a personal term is permitted or not, there is no matter what the system is going on. I think this surveillance needs to be okay. Misuse is not allowed, and I don't think there's a higher risk of it in a person's blood than a re-test. These are rules that need to be okay. The political parties need to hold on to them, and they should not be told to those who volunteer to public work that they need to keep it in order, not mismanage it, and comply with its rules. It has been said that they were more famous and well - known. You can't say, "No, it's nonsense, it's not like that." Of course, people prefer someone they know more than someone they don't know. I think it's a factor. Then, too, people may be famous, and it's nice and can be kept out of choosing such people. I don't want to make a big deal out of this. This is one of the things that can never be changed. If we have to make a choice, we are more likely to choose the person we know a little better. So it's life, we can't avoid any campaign system, that people prefer the one they know, unless they're fairy tales, and then they do what they think is right. It has also been held that repopulations will be less and it will be easier for those who are already elected in the event of a personal re-election than in the setting up of categories. There's a lot of research on this and they all show sitting councilmen and unit officials, and I testify in foreign studies, have more chance of achieving a vote than they do in any country, whatever the election system is. However, greater renewal has been shown to occur during the performance of lists, i.e. In exchange elections, but in dues. This has also been shown to show that renewal is greater in larger than smaller terms. I have not studied any studies that show that personality has a particularly negative effect on these matters. It seems that the only way to ensure renewal is to maximise the period at which people are allowed to serve places or services that are chosen. There should be no effect on individuality. Finally, it's the sex ratio. It is claimed that the gender ratio in the case we are talking about is often adversely affected by a person's being spoken of as elections for the Council and the gender ratios for the General Assembly and for the benefit of women at the councils or in the rural governments that are elected. There are no studies to show that this is the case, but it is often pointed out that women are more prone to a personic standard than when sorting are listed. Some political groups in this country have stressed gender ratios, established rules, and have achieved good results. Then you say, " We mustn't do that. ' I believe, though, that it is necessary in the material that others keep to the facts, and the facts are that there is no evidence that a personal term is affecting the interests of women in elections for councils or rural governments. This discussion has also pointed out that the lot of women at national conventions in other countries is large in comparison with other nations, and in these lands there is a personal standing with a people. The impact of voters on who are elected is very high in Finland as well as in Sweden and Denmark, although smaller than in Finland, with the ratio of women at their chosen meetings. At Ireland's National Assembly, where personal terms weigh very heavily, the share of women is certainly small, but it is thought to be due to factors in Irish society other than the election arrangement. Mary Robinson, president of Ireland, has just been used as a textbook example of how votes will be used in the Irish election system, where the voter's power in the ballot is very much. That's exactly where she got the vote because of what the election system is and despite being a woman, if that's what I can say. In this regard, I would like to mention that in the 2010 administrative election, it was said that an agent should be chosen for equality in gender proportions. The vote fell, so nothing had to be changed. Twenty-five were elected, and there was nothing to be moved about because voters themselves had the right sex ratios. As a matter of fact, I think we've come to the point where people are absolutely trustworthy that when they choose equal sex ratios. Of course, it's much better than having to follow some kind of greeting. I'm not going to predict how voters would take advantage of the possibility of choosing people of different opportunities. Governments represent a certain outlook on life, and their candidates are, or should be, the central members of that outlook of life, but we need to realize that a person's reputation is not for politicians or political parties. The proposal is presented because voters have shown that they would like to have a greater impact on where people sit in their elected synagogues than they do today. I think, though it may not be dignified to put it that way, we are very much on the side of that subject. I remember that during the last term, attempts were made to get these things going, but things didn't work out very well. At some point, therefore, it had been promised that a bill would be proposed for a higher personal rate in rural elections. I think I'll be right about the fact that a certain piece of work was done by the Icelandic company and would be interesting if the Minister of the Interior fell dust from it. I'm not gonna keep this number much longer here and suggest that it go through 2nd. and the administration board and the monitoring committee. I hope to say that it will be discussed there and that we can get it back here in the Senate Hall, because it has not been successful before.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u74	A respectable president. I wanted to take this opportunity and thank you. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir for her history and for her initiative in the case that has now been given for the third time, I suppose. I myself am a co-sponsor of the case, and I have no confidence that I support it fully, and I think it is quite time that we legalize the terms of the individuality at the council, especially because at the General Assembly, we decided to set several points in the judgment of the people in our national law. I believe we are obliged to comply with the National Pay and carry out what was asked of us, and a clear position was made in the vote. One of them was truly personal. It's an idea that we have agents who take our commission to make decisions, e.g. An institution like this, the Congress. Of course, art elections, that people choose classes and not representatives directly, reduce the thinking that your representative will take your commission directly and directly to the meeting that will make up the decision. All we can do to increase this direct relationship between the voter and the person involved in the agency, I think I'll look at the main points for progress. Therefore, it is important to increase the right of the voter to influence, not just what categories of councils or rural governments, but which representatives of them are seated there as representatives of the voter. We know that it matters not only which categories are selected but also which representatives are selected for each group. Individuality can have a major impact on the policy groups, on the decisions of the major issues and on the leading ones at the meeting, whether as a matter of council, rural administration, or as a matter of fact. Therefore, it is necessary for the voter to have the most impact on that factor. Now, this proposal may be more radical than the majority of the council, for it certainly assumes that it can be influenced by which individuals will be selected for more than one group. I myself have conviction that it is a good order, that it is desirable, and that is why it is a diplomat. But if it's not a majority wish to take such a big step here at the council then I would like to use this opportunity and encourage men to examine them at least. seriously taking the second step in the matter as a matter of course. paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir here in his history, which is that the voters of the party may influence the identity of the delegates in that category, even if they were not prepared to take the step all the way that the voter can affect the number of individuals selected for more than one category. At the same time, it would be a step along the way, and it would be right for the senator to say that we are getting very close on these subjects. You have been experimenting on this for a long time in our neighboring countries, and you have been affected by voters by the choice of representatives significantly higher in our neighboring countries, whether we look to Denmark, Finland, Sweden, or Norway, that you do not speak about Ireland. That's why I call for a discussion on the Committee whether it is not possible to achieve a wide agreement to step in to an increase in personal terms, with at least that the voters can choose individuals within the category they choose in elections.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u75	Madam President. I recommend a bill to legalize the media law, No. 38/2011, the texting of an image. The first missioner of the matter is Svandís Svavarsdóttir, and the other couriers who stand here and why. The members of Katrín, the daughter of Júlíusdóttir, the daughter of Ragnheiður, the daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Lára the daughter of Arnardóttir, and Oddný G. Harðardóttir. 1st par. It reads: 01:30 p.m. The law adds to a new language, as follows: An image provided by the media host should always be followed by a text from the Icelandic language that reflects the voice grid's text as accurately as possible. The bill was given at the 143th legislature but was not available for no committee or further discussion during the council. The change that is being discussed on the media law. 38/2011, the media host sending out television programs will be obliged to text it regardless of whether it is available in Icelandic or foreign languages. The change is made in order to make TV viewers who are deaf or have hearing impaired to the point that they do not benefit from television talk, use, and enjoy TV programs in Icelandic. According to 29. law on the media only obliges the text of foreign materials to be sent out. For 30th. However, by permission of the president, the media hosts are encouraged to make their services available to visual and hearing impaired, as well as those who live in the development field, by sign language, and audio, while the media services are not required in this regard. Is this according to Article 7. III. section in the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 13/2010 then, in March where the European Union member countries are expected to provide public media services that hear under their jurisdiction to ensure that their services will gradually be made available to people with sight or hearing. Such encouragement is not known from the Icelandic government alone but from the one found in 2 mg. Section 6. Law on the State Radio, Media in Public Service, No. 23/2013, but the press committee has certainly made comments when a foreign subject has been sent out without Icelandic speech or text. In a comment, we're at 30r. a bill on the media proposed to the Council of the Council of 139th C.E., and became the law of No. According to 38/2011, it is not to be used in the media services to provide light - stimulus or to make them available to disabled persons in other ways. There are no guidelines for sending out programs without making arrangements to make it available for hearing impairment or for people with other disability. Section 4.3.1 of comments from the above - mentioned bill to the media layer aims to explain the origin and translation of 30 g. the bill that is rooted in the c-joins 3. g. Directives of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 65 December 11, 2007. The Regulation that EU and EEA member countries should encourage the media providers in their jurisdiction to make available materials available for visual and hearing impairment, in the opinion of the authors of the report, to understand that the Member States should be subject to self-monitoring, and therefore Member States should set their own rules on the information that the article points to the extent authorised in their legal system. The national radio Ohf, a media medium of public service and public service, has set up a language policy as it is reserved in Icelandic language, Icelandic to the whole. It was adopted at the Council of Congress on March 12, 2009, at the 136th legislature, which states in Article 6. dealing with sign and texting: The needs of the deaf, the deaf, the deaf, and those who do not have a language by offering sign - language translations and the texting of national television programs where possible should be taken into account. This is consistent with 2 mg. Section 6. track No. 23/2013, on The State Radio, a central public curator, who deserves to be granted access to public media services by texting on the news and other TVs with text content and broadcasts in sign language and/or other means of communication that are suitable for this purpose and are in accordance with technical possibilities at any given time. The national radio texts all preconceived TV programs as well as television news hours. TV programs sent out directly, such as Cast light and weekly national discussions, are not texted. In 2012, texting on page 888 increased from 303 hours to 408 or about 35%. Other light - watching media only foreign matter, so people with hearing have limited benefit from their broadcasts in Icelandic. Other television media, but RIV has not established a language policy and text that has not been broadcast in Icelandic. Clearly, then, the emphasis on texting in the media law has only been limited. The texting of television in their mother tongue as the broadcast is primarily designed to enable deaf and deaf individuals in the local language to enjoy what is being sent out. Also helpful is the texting of a television program for foreign people who do not have full language but prefer to monitor the local media. Since the media play an important part in community life, it is vital that as many as possible enjoy what they are doing. The number of people in Iceland who have impaired hearing is not accurate, but based on foreign studies, it can be expected that at least 10 to15% of the population will be affected by some degree by hearing impairment. Hearing loss can develop at any time during life, but hearing gaps are among those that are often very old and are far more common in older people than in young people. More and more Icelanders reach a high age, and in recent decades the proportion of elderly has increased. On December 1, 2014, nearly 9% of the population were 70 or older. Iceland's Institute of Manners estimates that by 2020 this rate will be 10.2% and 13.7% in 2030. While many medical and technical resources are useful in over the years, it is expected that people who need texts to be able to use TVs in Icelandic countries will be increasing in the coming years and decades, and there is good reason to respond to them. A respectable president. Finally, I would like to quote the words of the vice president of the deaf, a hearing - impaired group in Iceland, Ingólfur Már Magnússon. He encourages members of Congress, as he says, by permission of the president, to provide a decent means of paying for this act of law because discrimination is forbidden. The absence of hearing impairment from enjoying Icelandic television is discrimination. So he challenges the Senate to accept this bill. In an article published in Science and elsewhere, he only reviews the status of people who detect sounds, but he cannot necessarily get them all and not on television, despite good hearing devices. It shows that texting would change the bioavailability of up to 50,000 Icelanders. There's no small number of them we're talking about. We, who may be listening more than often to news stories and news items, such as after dinner or some other Icelandic material, there are all kinds of tensions and other items available, probably feel that paying attention, but these people are not able to observe this material; it is completely excluded from a considerable mass media talk. I hope we get a shot at the case. The bill is interpolitic and should therefore have a clear route through the council, and I hope that the General and Education Committee will discuss it and call guests to him as soon as possible because this is very important. This is one of the things that we feel are more important than many others, and we have very many people whom we would like to avoid getting involved in social discrimination. I suggest the bill goes to the 2nd. and the Board of Education and Education following this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u76	A respectable president. I recommend a bill of change of human names law, No. 45/1996, with subsequent changes, and under those laws there are names of names, etc. The bill I recommend is the same as the bill submitted to the last assembly, but the Board of Education did not complete the discussion. The bill is substantially changed this time, and it is not least due to a discussion about the first bill at the previous council and specific indications in the process and the changes that have been made, I think, are a great improvement. I'm going to skate over the key elements of the bill, but if you read it, it looks like it's a fearsome Latin, because it's more and less a list of paragraphs and branches in the law and that's what you're suggesting, to speak and to the whole of the articles, they're falling away. The foundation suggests that names of people, names of names, and names may be registered, are highly liberal. Especially is the experience that has resulted from the current law, the case that the Human Name Committee has had to determine according to its laws and judgments that have fallen there. Some have heard about it, and it may not be strange, people can ask themselves, " Am I here at council? Is there anything better to discuss than a human committee, and maybe that committee and law, on the basis of whose work it operates, most of the day's lives are involved? ' Most people are not the ones who experience interference by the Committee of Human Name, but those who have wanted to name names or take names that are not in harmony with current laws have had quite a fight, and the committees in some cases have not given them permission to name or to name what they want. I want before I go over the points, I believe it's kind of human rights that people are allowed to decide their names for themselves. A person's name is very important to his identity. It can be very important in families or families, as well as a lot of feelings, to be named after their forefather, or to be known in a place or place. In existing legislation, some are privileged to use names that exist in the so - called human name file to be maintained or to have a family name that exists in the system, so to speak, but those who are so fortunate have certain privileges above others. The Human Committee is appointed today, and its function is primarily to comply with the law. It can be said that there are three main points for the special names that the human committee should observe and that I'm going to go over them first, but in this bill it is actually expected to take out all of these conditions together and make unnecessary, and as a result, there would be no need to keep the names of the names in agreement with these criteria and the committees whose role it is to accept or do not accept names on a human name file. Then there are three key factors, and it is important to note that in the bill from the previous year, it was assumed that these three things would still be considered in no particular order. First, the New World Translation of the Holy Scriptures contains letters that are not in the Icelandic alphabet. Then maybe we're specifically talking about the stick c. Secondly, the name is defined as either a male or a female name and it must be worn only by members of the sex, i.e. Males may only carry male names as defined and vice versa. And third, there is a small paragraph that says that in order for a name to be legal in Iceland, it must not be the one with the name. It has to be considered a pretty special legislation and a pretty heavy chalice you would have held before a committee to have to evaluate in itself what names are likely to cause the person they bear and what names are likely not to do so. The man standing here was baptized in Óttarr of his grandfather's head. It has to be said that when I was young, it was a very rare name that might have troubled me but it did not. It may well be asked: Had this special name been approved if my grandfather had not been baptized before the administration of human name laws, and it was decided that the State should understand what was wrong and what was not? But I'd like to account that it is extremely difficult to judge in advance, especially for a public committee, as to which name might upset a person. It may go very well with the individual, or it may simply be according to fashion. There have been cases in which relatively harmless names that no one has been upset with have been applied to fictitious characters or to popular songs, followed by their names being maligned. The rules have so far not offered that names are left on defined as likely to cause bother. No one has received a letter from a middle - aged human committee that his name has become a problem. Thus, in the bill it is assumed that these three conditions are actually removed, and that is not the public that defines the names of concern, but that the right parents are respected and the responsibility they have, that parents are entrusted with choosing names that are likely to bring them pleasure rather than trouble. We make an account that there are few things that parents need as much as they choose their child's name, which he is likely to have for the rest of their life. I don't think it's such a bad idea to assume that the official people hold the child's interests in greater honor than the parents'when it comes to choosing a name for the child. During the last session of the bill, concern was felt that there were at least some cases that such applications to human committees might have been made to do something, i.e. To some extent, it has been done to test the law. In the bill as it was suggested in the previous year, it was assumed that such matters could be taken forward to a minister who would finally take a stand for the possibility of bringing a child to harm or not. But this is not to be expected. During the last assembly, there was an excellent and credible criticism of the possibility that a minister would be better off dead than called a minister. A suggestionr agrees with this in himself, pointing out that child protection laws should be sufficient to protect children's rights, but children's law no. 76/2003 says in 1 mg. 1st par. that a child has the right to live, to grow, and to be protected, to care for, and to other rights, according to his age and development, and without any discrimination. Any form of violence or other disrespectful behavior is not permitted to be used by a child. Also stated in 2 mg. The same articles that the best interests of a child are always first of all when making decisions about the child's affairs. Thus, those in the protective care of children should have sufficient legal authority to take appropriate action and to help parents in their role of parents will face situations where a child has received a name that is truly a concern. A description of women's names and names is a time error that needs adjustment. In support of this, both the bill quoted and the hearing of a case that came up after being used as a woman's nameBlær which had previously been reached as a man's name. More than that, there is the discussion and increased level of consciousness that we have on the part of the individual's gender definitions. Actually, we are on the human rights side to direct from the physical alignment of the individual's sexuality but that is what makes the individual, to define whether the individual is a male or a female and therefore only to carry a male or a female name is not in harmony with the changed concept of human rights. He may be more thoughtful, but the third point is that names should be Icelandic and fall into English. There I believe, and we who present the bill to say that an Icelandic noun and an Icelandic language are spent with negative merits in the current law. It is now so with language, religion, and culture that it is difficult to command a law or authority from the way people behave in everyday life. It has proved to be in many traditions that the common people have often been more concerned with national and old traditions once they have received them, let's say, even more choice. It was not at the same time as when a basket chicken was served in the Naustuna in Reykjavík, which came to be the term "throoth " to be born, and the Icelanders began to eat acid food again, not because of the need or perhaps because of a lack of light, as it had been before, but because of a certain respect for tradition. Today we eat all kinds of food, not just because... [[Take cover: Salt and beans.]] Yes, salt meat and beans, thank you, are heard here from the side hall, but salt meat and beans are rarely worn on a table every day, but once a year I believe that the majority of Icelanders run to and eat this unusual food, not necessarily because they're suddenly on an invitation but to maintain tradition. The same can be said of a tradition that took place in the late 1800's and the beginning of the 20th century as a result of an increase in nationalism in Iceland and its independence. There was a high wave in Iceland to reinvigorate the Icelandic, Icelandic, and even more so in Icelandic names. At that time, there was a lot of good names and names of people who had actually been forgotten, and perhaps in part, given to all kinds of Bible names that came later, all sorts of names such as Óttar, Sævar, and Brynjar had not been used in Iceland since the Viking or Puurga age. At that time, the dust was fraught with it, it was national, it referred to as Icelandic culture and Icelandic language, and it may have been a mistake at the time, but there were no rules forbidding it to be recorded even though it had not been used for decades. It has been noted that human name laws and rules limit permission to use family names and that most people are obliged to use their names, i.e. To teach yourself to a father or to a mother, to protect Icelandic culture, it is a culture that must be protected by law. Similarly, I would like to say that having a family name, or a title, makes it more likely that parents will be responsible to consider whether they want their children to have a name and thus maintain the wonderful, unique, and unique tradition or to use a family name, but they do not end up in it, as at times when people use a family name, especially to maintain that name within the family, for generations to come. But then the final item I want to talk about in the bill, and this is a suggestion that family names are removed, as it were. The laws on human names have been valid in Iceland since 1914 and were originally paid for those who planned to adopt a new family name. By 1925 the Law was changed, so that after that, new family names were banned by law, other than those already existing, i.e. Those who had adopted a family name before 1925 were allowed to carry it on, and then they were allowed to return their family name to their offspring. The senator here is named one of those family names, Proppé, who is legal in my case because I come into the male line of my ancestor who was given the name for 1925. If any of my ancestors in the meantime had stopped using that name, I wouldn't have been able to record it. If my father had been of a different sex and not had his name on it, I wouldn't have been allowed to record it, etc. In 1925, of course, Iceland is immediately in violation of equality. Those who were so lucky to have genealogical names were allowed to continue, while others were not. Then it can be said that in 1996, when the law was taken for granted to the foreign citizens who received an Icelandic citizen's name even though it did not exist in Iceland. It's a natural human right for those individuals, but then these parties are the only ones allowed to bring a new family name to Iceland and that even if it's not in harmony with Icelandic tradition. Here it is assumed, first and foremost in the name of equality, that these limitations will be taken off and that it is really permitted to record the family name that he chooses. This is done with full consciousness that someone might think of changing his name and taking up a surprising family name. This is done in full consciousness of the possibility that some people might mention or baptize their child a novel or bizarre family name, but based on experience with family names and including many very special and strange family names that have come under the radar, either before 1925 or after 1996, we have few who stand for the bill not to see in any way that it is dangerous or negative but, on the contrary, may literally be a delight for those who have their names and for us who have the names. At times, I have been amazed that although I have the name Óttarr Proppé, I also have permission to name Ólafur Ólafsson, baptized Óttarr Ólafur, and owner of a father named Ólafur. Not to be born Pop, I'm sorry, but I'm not allowed to pick up my last name Popp, which is a legal name in Iceland. If I were lucky enough to be Poppas, IÓttar be Ott Popp and the name Stáli is legal in Iceland, so it would be legal to call Stáli Popp. I don't remember if the name Svampur is legal in Iceland, but I guess nothing illegal or anything that says I wasn't allowed to be called Sveinn. Then you might ask yourself, " Is this really a problem? Is it really possible for me to be a member of the nation for the benefit of this Sveinn Svampur or Stáli Popp? ' But just so I'll finish my case, I'd like to quote the report with the bill: ▪ The name is closely linked to a person's identity and self - awareness, and it is primarily personal and personal rights rather than the interests of the common people. At the beginning of 2013, judgment in the province of Reykjavík fell in the case of a young girl, the Bjarkardóttir, against the United States. The decision stated: ▪ As determined by 1 mg. 71. g. The Constitution, as in Article 9. Regulation No. 97/1995, every man has the right to his privacy, his family, his home, and his letter exchange. Icelandic rights have been considered to be the right of a man to his name under the terms of 1st. 71. g. these are important personal rights of the individual. Then the European Court of Human Rights has acknowledged on a judicial committee that the right to name falls to Article 8. European Convention of Human Rights and 1st. This law is in harmony with Article 1. 71. g. The Constitution.How much more so? Furthermore, it says, by permission of the president: The Court's assessment is that the right of a plaintiff to bear the name Blær is richer than society's interests because of rejecting the requirement, but also has not led to a strong argument that the rights of others will be submitted to the demands of their plains. The changes proposed by the bill are in the spirit of this judgment and in the spirit of it the interests of individuals because their names are richer than society's interests because people are not named. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u77	A respectable president. I would like to use this opportunity to express the firm support of the case's stand, then that it is a self - determination and the natural right of each man to determine for himself what his name is, and that the idea that the public will produce some records on what is allowed in this material is truly a time of time and completely out - of - date in 2015. Also, it's called a stranger than you are, who is to decide whether and what to call. Actually, I've been a sponsor of the case ever since I first adopted it at the Council. I think that it was during the season of 2003◯2007 that Björn Ingi Hrafnsson, that vice president but now known media king, gave a convergence to abandon this legislation, but unfortunately, it was no longer possible for this case to be done, and it's long since time to stop, I'd like to let myself tell you this nonsense. Of course, at the beginning of the 20th century, the ambitious ideas of the early 20th century were to protect Icelandic culture and Special tradition, as well as other factors that led to legislation in this council over 100 years ago, in 1914. Of course, the procedure has also been in such a way that long ago it has been so that no way of understanding why something was allowed and something else was forbidden. The arguments that men of good faith set out at some point in the beginning of the last century have in some way become contradictory and argumentative for the approved and subversive alike, often becoming impenetrable, apart from the fact that the other, it is probably that each individual is in control of his own name. There may be limits to how often a person can control his name in his life. There may be some social interests, but basically you have to choose your name. I feel that the matter has improved since the last time a lack of information is yielding, which is normal for child - welfare authorities. Of course, any concern that many have for unborn children who might be baptized without the merits of their parents is not meant to be in some special human form law. If parents baptize their children unemployed, it is only a matter of child protection, as one prominently did well here. But I challenge the committee that will be discussed to avoid being satisfied with sending it out for information. This has long since been a failure for the legislature to forbid people to name what they want for any understandable reason and not only in the case that the manager referred to but, in so many cases, a completely intolerable interference with the government with people's privacy and points that are meant to be in the hands of the individual and not the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u78	President. I just wanted to come up here and declare the most supportive part of the bill. I hope that things will work out and point out that I have been one of the Icelanders who have had to deal with a human committee by the name I decided to give my son. It got through, but it was a long fight, absolutely ridiculous. I have heard of many adults who have wanted to match their name with that, for example, if they have married or lived abroad. When people are grown up, I feel that their self - determination is the right to be in the foreground. I just hope it's hot and deep, considering who's involved, but there are people from all categories, I think, or almost all classes, that there'll be no objection to the fact that the case will be closed and taken care of in our own time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u79	A respectable president. I want to thank the members of the council who participated in the debate for warm words and encouragement to the bill, and I agree with their wishes that the bill will have a successful trip through the council. I just wanted to come up here because I forgot about it before, and I'm saying that the movers are from a number of categories, as this says. More important, after the bill was submitted and printed, more members of the council have been approached and felt sorry for not being there. So I believe that there is a high level of support here at the council and I have forgotten to offer the matter to some members of the council, I apologize to them on this matter. I also forgot in my first speech how to speak in order to be referred to the General and Education Committee in the same way that they did last year, and I'm doing it here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u80	President. I would like to recommend a synonym to condemn the torture of the U.S. intelligence agency. Transporters with me have a problem. The members of Katrín Jakobsdóttir's Árnadóttir, Arni Ingadóttir Árnason, Óttarr Proppé, Helgi Gunnarsson, Árður Skarphéðinsson, Ögmundur Jónasson, Semimur Igjörgjörgdótir, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Gernadótir, Bjanna, Gunnarsdóttir Olnsinnsdnar, and Róbert Marshall. Do I know them the best thanks for being concerned about this matter? I hope some senators from the Front and Independence Party will be able to support this issue in the end of this case. Foreign Affairs. According to the proposal, the General Assembly strongly condemns torture, which has been represented by the U.S. government, and the U.S. government condones the terrorist attack on September 11, 2001. President. A paper in which the conclusion is given shows the following: The U.S. Senate recently published a report describing the brutal torture of men imprisoned during the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks that have been conducted under the control of the CIA. The report describes the terrible treatment of people of all ages of both sexes and ethnic backgrounds. One is how prisoners were kept awake, even for a whole week, sometimes standing, sometimes with their arms chained above their heads. Some prisoners were given fluid through anal, without medical needs. This was carried out by over-outage, resulting in at least one case for anal lesions. One prisoner, Majid Khan, was fed through anal. Hummus, pasta sauce, nuts, and raisins were crushed and crushed into the anus. Gul Rahman was kept awake for two days. He was put to the severed noise of complete darkness and isolation, in cold showers, and chained to a wall in a position that forced him to lie on the cold floor. His clothes were taken to punish him for being uncooperative and only wearing a sweater but naked below his waist. Because of this inhuman treatment, Gul Rahman died of hyperthermia. Two prisoners with leg fracture, one with a ripped ankle and one with a artificial leg were chained standing and kept awake until CIA health professionals determined that they could no longer stand on their feet. In fact, torture is among all the most serious crimes, and it has been defined by international society and international law. In the United Nations Convention on Civil and Political Rights, which Iceland and the United States are involved in states in Article 7. that no human should be tortured or cruel, inhuman or disrespectful treatment or punishment. The United Nations Convention on torture and other cruel and inhuman treatment or punishment also discusses torture. Iceland and the United States are bound by that contract, but according to it, torture is completely undisputed for any purpose and the international community is entrusted with a great common responsibility to prevent torture and to have those guilty of such crimes brought against them. The movers of this proposal feel strongly that the terrible treatment of people described in the above - mentioned report will be condemned around the world and measured in order to respond quickly to the general Assembly of Iceland and to the condemnation of this atrocities in a formal and public way. The General has previously, at the 135th legislature, condemned violations of human rights and inhumane treatment of prisoners at the U.S. Guantanamo Bay in Cuba in that assembly. This suggestion suggests that such condemnation will be applied in the light of new information that has been made with the new report. The report shows that the information obtained with torture was never used to prevent attacks or present threats. The report also shows that the CIA has deliberately and systematically lied to politicians and the public by giving very inaccurate information to obtain permission for the tortures. At the same time, the CIA has falsely claimed that no senator was against them. It also states that of the 119 human beings who are known to be tortured, at least 26 people have nothing to do with themselves. President. None of the many highly organized and organized agents except the informant and former secret agent John Kiriakou had to be held accountable for their actions, but they first reported the brutal ways of the CIA in torture in 2007, a method known as ◯waterbourging. This method of torture has not been translated, but it is performed in a way that pours iced water on the face of a prisoner to imitate the feeling of drowning, often repeated. John Kiriakou was sentenced to 30 months in prison for his informants and was imprisoned as the report of the U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee was released in late 2014. He was recently authorized to serve his last month's sentence on house arrest, but he, like others, failed to be interrogated that those responsible for torture, both by means of direction and by action, are not even interrogated. These methods were never formally accepted but were performed under the cover of extremeism of the former president of the United States, George Bush. I'd like to finish my speech on Johns Kiriakous's words about torture, with the permission of a president: Despite the fact that torture was effective during questioning, that method should never be recognized. I disagree with the authorities' policy of torture, but historically, I am on the right side. There are boundaries that you never cross, even in a national security sense. Such tortures include some of the areas in which we live and live. I sincerely hope that the council will survive and have the strength to condemn what was presented in this intense and awkward United States Senate report and encourage members of Congress to study it. I reiterate that more than just the person who clearly told about this torture is held accountable. I suggest the proposal goes to the State Department, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u81	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct the violation of the Walm of the Housewives' worming Act from 1972. It is a simple bill, which simply means that laws fail. The matter has been submitted to a twofold assembly, the 138th legislature and the 141th legislation, and is now almost unchanged from the second. Orlof the housewives have more history than the current law indicates. The first Kingdom Hall's Kingdom Fortress was completed in 1958, so the story is great. Their purpose was to validate recognition of the social importance of unsalaried jobs and to provide holiday rights for the housewives, such as employees in pay. This was certainly important in Iceland in 1958, but the times have changed. Things have changed for the better. The gender's equal rights are far away, and it has to be true in both directions. That's why I believe it's the right thing to suggest that these laws pass away and that it's the right time to assume it's the right thing to do. Some in the community have expressed themselves on this subject, and various societies have concluded in this direction. I really hope that the committee to whom it will be referred and that it will pass through the council. As an example, for example, on June 19, 2008, the Western Town Board concluded that the Women's Court of Women was to challenge the Council to abolish the law. The same would be true of Whos making it, and so on. The first songs about the orlof of the housewives are from 1960, and the spirit that obviously reigned at that time is clearly seen in these laws. Things have changed for the better, and equality has gone well. Better, though, if sufficient, all steps should be balanced. So I believe it's the right thing to cancel these laws. V.E.G. President. I suggest that this case be referred to. The General and Education Committee for discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u82	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a private act of change in the law. This case is delivered by a majority of the General and Education Committee and it's simple. This means that instead of the date ◯1. January 15, 2015, of 2 st. The law, January 1st, 2016. This case explains itself, and it is simply a matter of extending the validation of the Law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u83	A respectable president. It will no doubt explain itself to as clearly as it is to members of the Parliament. paritaprevir Brá Konráðsdóttir Conspiracydótttir, not for the people standing here. In fact, I think that the original principles in themselves may not have been necessary, since the general sources for quick treatment have been able to act quickly on the issues this was supposed to involve. I have understood, however, that in spite of the failure of this law, treatment has been accelerated this year. Among other things, there have been rapid and well - mannered court reviews in the two earlier terms of insurance, although this law was no longer for distribution, and these cases are already in the appeal process to the Supreme Court, and the actual test case is likely to go on in the spring completely independent of these shortcuts. I wanted to ask you why. A member of the Parliament, whether there is any need to extend the regulations and what the need is, whether the majority of the committees have discussed it with the Supreme Court, with the court of the court, or with the County Court of Reykjavík or with other districts that it is unequivocally needed to maintain this extension. Other than that, I just wish that the matter would go to the Committee between discussions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u84	V.E.G. President. Yes, it is proper to review the purpose of the original arrangement when it was approved here at the council. That bill, as well as at the council's appointment, was shown by the Generals to make sure that all the deadlines in the matter are as short as possible. Of course, it is a long history that these issues of all the events that led up to the economy at the time, but with this matter, we simply put it and the will of the council, which we hope to be confirmed here in the chamber, that this quick treatment is still valid, and it is quite clear that it is the Council that stresses it. Of course, it is the General Assembly that has the legal authority, not the members. A senator listed here. We received several members at the Committee's meeting while we were evaluating the need to reexamine this, this was being observed here in December. This matter was then made up of those in charge of the end of the council, the members of the council, as it were. Hjörvar Well, he's well aware of what he's saying. Nevertheless, a greater proportion of the committees have an estimate that this will be shown in this way and that, therefore, this warrant will be for an temporary extension until the next year.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u85	A respectable president. It is worth a good price for members or members of Congress to express a willingness to do something quickly, but I was just asking about the political significance of having to legalize some of the rules like this. The courts have the authority to speed matters up. They have rushed such matters as this insurance policy and have arranged all equipment so that they can be delivered and judged as soon as possible. What procrastination cannot allow the legislativator to shorten that deadline, whether it is legally owned by members of the parish or by retailers, since it is simply the civil rights of those who attend the matter and defend that they have a set amount of food that they can use and reach. We cannot shorten them, either with this law or with anything else. I hear what the senator says, that she sees this as the council's will not to speed up these matters, but is it of any legal value in itself? This law has not been based on this, and I don't see that it will be, but the remainder of this year, because already the main test cases in these materials are on the way to the Supreme Court and have been judged in the province without this law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u86	V.E.G. President. These are all important views expressed in the opposite direction. Senator. Yes, it is our opinion that put this matter to work that it is important to pass through. Otherwise, we would not be offering it. There are exactly the same views that apply now, as when the source first came in. All aspects were handled well, and it was considered very important that this will of the council come in there. It is true that this does not mean that there should be a deadline for some particular time, but it says, in this requirement we are extending, that you should try to put these matters through as quickly as possible and that I just have to understand that not everyone is ready to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u87	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a hearing from the Western Council's Iceland Department. The proposal is to challenge the government to cooperate with these two fine friends of ours through means of reducing emissions of sulphur from ships. In this large sea area surrounding the three countries, there is much debate about increased shipping, increased shipping, and the increased use of both sea and country valuables. It comes with quite a fuss. At our meetings in the Western Council, it is clear that our friends and cousins are deeply involved in this matter, i.e. how we are going to cope with these possible changes. In order to reduce emissions of sulphur from ships, action must be taken, and we put out here simply to try to use fuels that reduce pollution and equipment that remove sulphur particles from the fuel of fishing vessels and seafaring. This conclusion was adopted at our meeting in the Western Isles of September 3rd. and we build it up, among other things, in a 2007 report from the United States' Chemistry Association, which traces the effects of sulphur pollution from ships on people. Such pollution is particularly vulnerable to coastal areas, so coastal countries such as Iceland, Greenland, and the Faeroe Islands are being directed to try to reduce pollution. How important it is to promote the cooperation of these three nations! It's been good over the years, we've reached some important issues, some of them, with the initiatives of the Western Council that we've already made up for our meeting in the Western Council. Then, these conclusions are transferred into all three Parliaments to treat, and in most cases they are approved at all conventions. That is why we hope that this fine proposal will be well treated by the Foreign Affairs Committee. I wish for it to be referred to because this is one of the big issues that are common among those three nations. Of course, the changes in ship traffic in the North Sea are most relevant to this area.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u88	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a hearing from the Western Council's Iceland Department. This involves a resolution that includes challenging the governments of the three countries to authorize us, who are seated in the Western Council, to send inquiries to ministers in connection with the work of the Council, or to issues related to our work in all three countries. Thus, an Icelandic senator who sits at the National Institute of the Westnoric Parliament can direct a inquiry, say the Secretist of the Faeroe Islands or the Foreign Minister of Foreign Affairs on matters that we believe are linked to a distant cooperation of the oracles. Now it may sound like those Western senators will drown these fine advisers in queries, but we will try to stop them in the deliberator text by saying that the inquiry will be first sent to the Westernological office and then forward to an appropriate minister who will have eight weeks to respond to the inquiry. We feel that this is important in opening up the opportunity to get insightful answers and to be more attentive to all of us. It's from the Council of Northern Ireland. At 57th. The Helsinki Convention says, with permission from the President: A representative may direct a request to the government or Minister for a report or report that has been sent to the Council or to other issues affecting the norse cooperation. We in the Western Council wish to obtain similar sources. Based on the experience with this provision in the Northern Council, it is not that ministers are falling under pressure from such inquiries. V.E.G. President. I hope this case is well discussed in the Foreign Affairs Committee, but I would like the case to be referred there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-17-67.u89	Madam President. Thank you. In the history of two Konráðsdóttir Unnur on cooperation between Iceland, the Faeroe IslandsBrá and Greenland, an authority to reduce emissions of sulphur from ships and, on the other hand, to authorize representatives of the Western American Council to send a petition to a minister. I take my heart with the two decrees of the assembly, and I hope, as it were. The senator mentioned that they are being discussed well at the moment. State Department. For this reason, I would like to discuss only the issues of the Western and Western states, where we have just arrived from a theme conference held in Greenland these days. There was the main theme of the formation of the common policy of Western or Western states in the north. Many interesting and interesting topics were presented at that conference. There was also talk of a free trade deal between Western England and an opportunity and threats of increased shipping throughout the north. There is no doubt that increasing trade between Western countries can strengthen their economy in many ways, but the major problem in the context is likely to be the equivalent of land production. Our most important commercial product is fish products, and it will not in itself be a basis for the international trade in Western America because in that area every country is enough for itself. There are other options for our shopping, such as the field of transportation, tourism, building and maintenance of community infrastructure, and the need to make good use of it. These items were conducted lectures at the theme conference. Of course, every Western country has its own face and language and its own voice. Of course, we want to maintain our special status and self - image, but at the same time we must accept that a successful business site could strengthen our international position, at times making it difficult for us to call attention to ourselves because of the few. Therefore, it is my opinion that at a common commercial site, the environment must be placed in the wind and the people's right to enjoy the fruits of their resources and work, and that nature is the basis for our existence. The fragile polar environment is already threatened by global warming, resulting from the insurmountable way of life we live. In any situation, the common trade council of the Western countries should counteract this most unfortunate trend. Our time of association is marked by a great social imbalance in income and in the general of our society, which is more often not seen in the health system, at school among our children, and among the older ones in nursing homes or in services to the elderly. If it is successful with a joint network of Western countries, it should also be used to look for solutions to the social problems resulting from pollution and unsatisfactory provision of resources and inefficiency. If successful, it contributes to the responsible use of resources and shows environmental responsibility. This balance would be put first, and we would give it our full support. In 2011, Iceland's policy on northern affairs and its common Western policy was adopted by a Parliamentary decree that forms in the primary framework of Iceland's policy on northern affairs. It shows the importance of the appearance of northern pathways as an unbroken ecological unit. I think it's very important to observe that point of view in the Western partnership and in the shape of a common Western policy. Fishing and using the resources of the ocean or the land base of our countries are already very important, or may become that in the future. We can look to Greenland in this regard, where mining has been a great deal of talk and there is a difference of opinion in that subject. The United Nations Department of News provides a basis for the government of the coastal states in the areas to which they are responsible and defines their rights. The covenant should be used to resolve issues and to shape a common policy on the use of marine resources or resources at the bottom of the sea. It also includes putting the rights of the original people of the north first, and I think it is very important, and making sure that no decisions will be made about their status or future without their own share. No doubt, all of us realize the threat of global warming to the north. For good reason, the General Assembly of 2011 concluded that Iceland and other communities in the Western region must work against global warming, including demanding that more work in the Western countries and possible new occupations will not increase the climate crisis. We realize how fragile our environment is, and we realize that if our community is to survive, we must take into account both the plant and the animal kingdom, that says itself. We also need to remember that the way people of the north live involves an ancient knowledge and knowledge of how man lives under difficult conditions. We have an obligation to preserve that knowledge for the future, so we must choose the best way to make sure that the population of the north is alive and secure. That is a future assignment. Of course, at this point the Western nations work in various ways and use this field to do so. When it comes to molding a new common policy, for example, for military fortresses and military operations in the north, we should put our own interests above the interests of the superpowers. I think it's urgent, even though these are little nations. We should avoid allowing them to move their line of defense to our home by building a military fortress in behalf of those who are always fighting for power and influence on a global scale and watching that our equipment is confined to safety measures in behalf of these countries and in the interests of sailors and citizens. It also needs to be looked forward to sustainable development in the western countries. I'm not gonna keep this in my mouth any further. I just wanted to come into these things because this cooperation is really important and has led up to many good things, although it is often the desire of the channel whenever it comes to the suggestions that have been agreed on in this field, it's a big move. It matters. I believe we should work hard on this and support our neighbors in Greenland and the Faeroeses in all the ways that we can and also accept their advice, for we are, of course, learning a number of things from them alike. [[The president calls.]]
