ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u1	A respectable president. I'd like to attract the highest attention. Because it's midnight, and as I understand a respectable president, there are more talks here. Hv. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson is next on the rosary with his first conference talk on this big case. So he's supposed to be talking here after midnight. Is that right, Mr. Honorable President? I wondered, " How exactly does the president support the respect of the council in this context? ' Is it reasonable that we are discussing such matters so that people are giving their first talks at this time? Here's a senator, and he's once again the only senator in the hall. Is it normal for him to give his first talk under these circumstances? I'm asking, a respectable president, how long will it take us to meet here? There's been a few committees here at the moment. So it's time to just continue our conference here until tomorrow? [[The president calls.]] Or what exactly is the plan?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u2	Madam President. I would like to know how long this meeting is going to last. I felt that there was no room for the president's decision earlier today when they voted for the length of a meeting meeting that would be a night meeting. I kind of imagined that this would be a night meeting and said no, of course, because there are many other matters that I would like to discuss now rather than what is on the program. It is very important to know how long we should continue to discuss this matter into the night, not that I am complaining about being here, the time has come, at least for me, to read a number of comments on this subject. My conclusion is that this case is a bit of a shock. It does not contain a stone. Also, new information has been provided tonight, which makes it possible that our presentation, which assumes that this matter is not deemed available and that there is no reason to keep it on the schedule, has grown stronger rather than anything else. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u3	A respectable president. I just want to see if there are really not enough people here to stop this meeting right now and take over the Senate tomorrow, where it's at the highest level. Prime Minister gives us a report on the workforce. We'll see in tonight's news stories at the highest. The prime minister is completely unrelated to what is happening there. He has nothing to do with the demands that are in the area. It is also stated in the media tonight that there are two weeks in the largest strike in Iceland, 65,000 people going to retire in two weeks, the largest strike of Iceland's history. And prime minister doesn't know what's going on. He doesn't know what's going on with a job market, but here it's inspired advice that framework and change of it and destruction are the key to all of this, the solution. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] It's called scandal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u4	A respectable president. I don't know exactly what we're supposed to be doing here. There is almost no one in the hall to discuss the matter materially. We're having a meeting. It's past midnight. They're named under in the morning. It is clear that the only purpose of this meeting is to ease the loss of some of its feelings. We all know how this process works. So it works while the smaller part hangs here after the night to be offered by the greater part, either he sits there - the more part is there, the better part is there. 5th þm. Reykv.. N.U. sits there and relaxes the rest of us sinners, as shown in a good movie. [[The point is, that's the big part here.]] I just think it's time to consider taking a little consideration of the committee meetings in the morning. I told you at some point today that I'd start complaining about midnight. It's past midnight, so it's time to start complaining.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u5	Madam President. There was this meeting last night on the long road 12 at midnight. I started my job at a council this morning at 8:00 a meeting of the Economic and Business Committee, and I've been here without a break ever since. So, there are over 16 hours. That would count as an absolute workday, especially if they go on many of these in a row. True, I'm accustomed to losing and spending long hours, and I don't especially complain about it, but my experience is also that if you're going to work a lot and make a lot of money, e.g. holding out even for weeks with your 16 hours of work a day, you have to sleep on something there between five, six hours that are basically minimal, even though you are reasonably healthy. This is my experience, Madam President. That's why I want to ask the highest. A president in his best interest to us who are supposed to show up early tomorrow morning, isn't this going to be good? Is it not wise to leave a night at that? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u6	Madam President. I'd like to start by asking the President if the President has reached the highest level. The prime minister and what is heard about a request that he come here and review his work position with us. Then I'd like to ask a president, like other councilmen here, how long she plans to have a meeting held in the night. I hope that the president will answer in a different way than they do, but the president is going to let a meeting continue for a while. It can hardly be a secret what those planning the work here at the council have planned to continue for a long time in the night. I hope the President gives us a clear answer in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u7	The president thus reveals that a message was sent to the prime minister, but it is uncertain whether he is coming to the Hall. The President has no further answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u8	Madam President. I hope and think, I suppose, the numerous viewers of the ever-growing General Generals are beginning to see that a certain theme is going on here. V.E.G. The president is repeatedly asked questions - I've been involved in it, and it's my business and important questions - but there's no answer. That's what the General is doing today. This is how this council works. Then you just need to keep asking questions, and you may try to ask simple questions that should be easier to answer. My question this time is simply this: What's going to happen? Mr. President taking the meeting to stand a long time? I would like to draw attention to the subject under discussion, whether to engage in Uryrofoss, or elsewhere in lower part of Þrjörður, as discussed elsewhere. There is a discussion at the legal level of the project management, so there is no need for us to meet here until night on that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u9	Madam President. I've been here a couple of years and I think I know the whole game we're involved in, i.e. we ask how long a meeting should last. Then there's some kind of nervous war where they are not answered, and all of this is justified by the fact that this was always the case. It's always justified by the same thing. I have a very simple question: How long will Mrs. President or President of the Council continue this meeting? If we were to find answers to such simple questions, our magazine would be broken. But I've come to believe that the Allied Council is very uncomfortable with change. It is always suggested that the laws of Congress need to be changed. It would be fine if the first step had to be taken to answer such questions. [[Take it up, put it in the law.]] We don't have to legalize it, we can just decide to do it, that's easy, Madam President. So I reiterate my question and expect an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u10	A respectable president. I don't have a lot of answers. I decided that the President announced an earlier program that will be held at the beginning of a meeting tomorrow, just as we did this morning. It was our verbal attempt in the memory of the part to bring our sense to the greater part, to use one of the tools we have in our tool case, to try to influence the issues discussed here. You can expect that, so that you can imagine what the rest will be, that the motion will be discarded. The members of the board of directors who are not here tonight or at least very few of them. Then, as we consider today, we will discuss the subject of five talks. [[The president calls.]] This, of course, is something that began last week. [[The president calls.]] The decision of a major part of the council is entirely that it is in this way and completely contrary to the will of the lesser part.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u11	V.E.G. President. It is proper to be grateful for this discussion that has been going on for a long time and has been good as far as technology is involved. But when people are struggling and many are willing to speak up, the natural meeting period may be extended, with undeniably results. When it comes to lengthy discussions, they must be prepared to make significant meeting places during the discussion. An American saying I've ever read that the one who can't stand the heat is supposed to leave the kitchen. Therefore, if you don't trust yourself to sit here for a long time and in good discussions and fine careers, you just have to adjust the time of speech. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u12	President. It is now a little special when the members of the greater part are beginning to compare the hall to the kitchen, but it may show some respect. Senators of the greater part for the Generals. I have three questions for President: When will a conference be over? I request accurate timing. When will a conference be over? I request accurate timing. When will a conference be over? I request accurate timing. Where's Prime Minister Honored? Where's Prime Minister Honored? Where's Prime Minister Honored? I wish that tomorrow the minister of the Environment, the Honourable Minister of the Environment, the Supreme Minister of the Environment, will be here for the discussion. President. When will a conference be over? I'm asking for exact answers. I'm asking for exact answers. I'm asking for exact answers. I ask for exact answers, Mr. President, when a meeting will be concluded. Accurate answers. What time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u13	Madam President. Since the president who sits on the throne obviously does not trust to make a decision regarding the end of a meeting, I wish that the president of the council, the Einar Kristinn son of Guðfinnsson, will come here and realize if he controls how the wind unfolds. I'd also like to make a comment to the fact that the president who was last sitting here in a chair had the word that the senator kept his emotions in check. I don't think it's appropriate, it was when the call was here before, as it's always been. I feel like I'm talking down to people by using that language and I don't think it's a decent president, and I'll make that comment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u14	Madam President. It's been described by the highest power. All night long the prime minister and spread a message that his presence is wanted and that he is not disturbed. Then the suspicions arise in me that I am right to the Supreme Court. The prime minister is a latecomer, because that must be the only explanation. He's here in town. We have an understanding of this, and we have had the highest tolerance. The environmental minister should, according to one estimate, be here much, therefore, we do not have, at least I don't, require it to be at all the discussions, although it was perfectly objective and valid. But nobody's the highest. The government minister should show himself here, of course not. It is minimal that someone is speaking for the government, because it is now a government proposal, although, of course, it is replaced by the adjustment of more part of the employment committee. Or is the suggestion of an orphan? Has it become such a problem at the highest level? A government that no one wants anything to do with this anymore? And the only man who's still doing his dirty work, that's why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson? You might ask. Then I must say, Madam President, now I think it's the best. Mr. President is starting to owe us some answers. [[The president calls.]] It has been customary for the president to listen to some members of the council, but when they all ask the same question: When will this meeting be over? [[The president calls.]] it's time for a president to answer sooner or later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u15	A respectable president. I want to thank you. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson of Sólmundsson for an honest explanation of why the members of the administration are not here. It's because they hate the heat. And I have to thank you for the honesty of people about the reasons why they don't show up in the audience. It may not be strange, for here one fact after another has been presented that exposes man's having a lax case in subsequent discussions. A respectable president. I would also like to pick up the thread where it could be. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter left him behind. This game is here to say, "When will a meeting be over? " And the president says, "Go on, on and on, he's laughing. It's also just really lame, especially since there are 18 people on the rosary. I don't want anyone to tell me that people think that it's going to be possible with some smart guy to finish this meeting tonight, that this thing is going to run through 18 people. [[The president calls.]] Of course not! Honorable President, why don't we stop acting like this, tops. The President just tells us how long we'll be here, and then we'll go on? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u16	The president intends to take one more part of the program tonight and then complete a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u17	A respectable president. That's what I'm talking about. There was finally an answer. It could have come a lot earlier, then we wouldn't have had to ask so many questions. This is what we should do here to a greater degree, and this is really the point of what we are seeking in all these talks on the President's conference board, exactly this, that our questions are answered and that they are being done objectively. That was a very serious answer, understandable, and clear. There are many other questions that we need to know. The best way to tackle all of this now would be to prepare for the meeting of the council groups and even the presidents of the packs as well. Yeah, it's a radical idea, but you know, you gotta think outside the box. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] I propose it to the highest. President, this situation could be resolved. Otherwise, I think most executives have gone home to sleep now because tomorrow maybe we'll get a new reason from the highest. Of course, the prime minister for why we are in charge here, and those in charge need to be well rested when they hear the latest reason. [[The president calls.]] But the highest. Prime Minister certainly has not yet gone to sleep, I suppose he is a Googler and trying to find some reason for all of this. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] This may be necessary for abduction or something like that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u18	Madam President. Thank you very much for the answer to a respectable president. I was going to come up here with a rather illuminating speech that I wouldn't pick this president of the guess team because she would choose not to answer questions. But even though it took a thought - provoking time, there is a clear answer, and I thank the president very much for that. Of course, it reiterates how strange it is. I'm always talking about listening to a professional and one of the things a professional says is that Icelanders sleep too little and that insomnia can lead to bad decisions. I have no doubt that sleeplessness also affects the quality of conversation, I know why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson may disagree with me. I can see his face that he thinks. [[Up front.]] However, in my research at this workplace for the last eight years, I have noticed the progressive decline of conversation after midnight. I wondered if we should start studying them together, perhaps that could have a positive effect on the Senate and the President's conference board, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u19	President. I thank you for your clear answers, at last. It's a pleasure to know, at least about, how long we'll be here. But I miss you so much. Prime Minister and would have asked for a clearer answer. I know it's really hard to get the top. Prime Minister. He's not answering phones, just taking text messages, and maybe his phone's just out of power. So I ask the President to make sure that tomorrow we have a proper discussion on this matter with the prime minister, since the very foundation of this discussion is actually gone. Well, it's clear to me that we're going to be happy, top dog. Since prime minister, lyingly stated, it is very important to bear in mind that this adjustment has already taken place on his own or the government of prime minister. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u20	V.E.G. President. It is a very repentant former president here on a talk chair who did not intend to be insensitive today and to hurt the feelings of members of Congress. It may have been in his possession that when the signing of the President's work began, the agreement may have been that men would save themselves frontal calls. However, the president is waiting here for some respect, and he will be careful not to be so insensitive in the next few days. But I would like to pick up the thickness of the fine men sitting in the hall on the one side. They say there's no government here. That's not true. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, too, should have noticed his partner, now in a side room, so there is no need for a number of directors, who are actually in a side room during this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u21	A respectable president. That's how this case works. Is there anything in the progress the President doesn't realize? Does not a respectable president realize that there are 18 people on the rosary and they will continue to be 18? Is it not clear to you that the government is completely united in not enduring the adjustment of the share? Is there anything vague about that? And does keeping one more talk here tonight change any understanding of the situation? What is it that a respectable president fails to recognize in his position? It is important that the president reviews his plans on tomorrow's schedule so that we do not still tape ourselves into the tire tracks, and we can try to get some focus on this matter. [[The president calls.]] It's totally fixed and it's totally the responsibility of the President and the majority of the council. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u22	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is certainly our chief guide on the literature of the day, and she should certainly know that drunk with insomnia, men have written the best social literature. [[Up front.]] So I disagree with her about the show. On the other hand, when she gives the highest commendation, I join her. A president for at least answering questions. Not everyone's done it here tonight. V.E.G. In that way, the president has cut off the members of the board to answer. For example, it has a problem. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, he's sitting here in the back room, not done tonight. I gave a talk several hours ago and threw two questions to him. Hv. A senator has not answered them. So I prefer to make his shoes because he's exhausted from his sleeplessness and fatigue. That's why I'm the highest. A president to break up a meeting and allow you to do what. The founder of this discussion, Jón Gunnarsson's son, a senator and head of the professional committee, to return home and rest so that we can have an intelligent conversation with him tomorrow. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] [[Take it up:]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u23	A respectable president. I also thank the President for his late answer. It's never fun to give talks when it's so late into the evening, and I've been complaining about it, along with other members of the council, having to do so. I don't want my fellow senator Willum Þór Þórsson talking in here into the night. It makes more sense for me to speak this way, at least during light hours, and it's not the night that it's still bright. While someone here said it was good to see the sunrise, I'd like to do it somewhere else. I'm saying that it's not really for the better, and it doesn't have to be that we're here until the night, but it's probably half as late as it looks and it's at the top. The president is holding tight that we're going to have one more speech here. I don't think that's an improvement. I think it's true that it makes sense for people to start resting. We have many who will attend a meeting in the morning, and you can't tell people to just go home to sleep, if they want to be on time, that means we'll have a few hours to sleep. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u24	V.E.G. President. We're here to address a proposal for a resolution of a change in the synoptic resolution of a national protection and energy efficiency programme, No. 13/141, found on deck. 273, No. 244. We'll discuss this later-pass punctuation proposal with members of the committee and a change form from a greater section and two committee opinions from a smaller section, one of which has a countertext. It is suggested, in the original motion, that the national protection and energy efficiency programme will be adjusted to dissociate Involved Inducation to a novelty class. The proposal was originally submitted to a Council of 143, but it did not succeed. A respectable president. In accordance with Law on Framework, No. 48/2011, every four years, or at least not less, such a suggestion should be made in evaluating the protection and use of land areas and the impact of innovation and protection of the economy, the environment and society. This is an enormously important route of policy development, to determine whether individual areas can be used for energy recovery or whether it can be protected or further investigated. An important way to policy, I say, the more dignified President, because this is a question of living up to now and improving the standard of living to the future, employment, employment structure, future growth, and chicken business. I'm sure I'll forget some of the elements of this list. This is a major policy issue affecting many aspects of human life. The advantages in this situation are the categories we would like to define, i.e. The energy company, the waiting party and the protection party. If we look at the activities of national protection and energy efficiency programmes and initiatives discussed by the Management Board on January 14, 2013, Congress resolution on such a strategy agreed on protection and energy efficiency. Then came the value of the law No. 48/2011, for a protection and energy efficiency programme, except for a total of 1,◯3. par. The law of the law, which had already gone into effect with the approval of the 16th May 2011. The third phase of the protection and energy efficiency programme began with the task management order on the part of the world's highest level. The Environment and Resource Svandís of Safís Svavarsdóttir who appointed the 25th March 2013 administration. When it came to July that same year, the greatest was improved. The Environment and Resource Ingi Signg Jóhannsson of the Management Board's Communication letter with the recommendations to establish his work priorities so that a professional assessment of the six activation options taken from a series to a waiting party following the 2nd stage of the programme and the two options that had not received adequate assessment of the previous task management, i.e. Standard water and Hallowed at Atley. This was in mind that there would be a new suggestion when the spring convention of 2014 was held. In addition, the principled Conventional Directive states that the Commission saw that it would only deal with the three activation initiatives in lower Tubal wounds considered in section 12 to be a greater part of the European Environment and Transport Committee on Current Protection and Energy Administrative Plans and provided its proposal to the Minister for Aggression to be moved from the waiting category to the energy supply party. An overview of the proposal's follow-up will provide information and data that recommend, as well as that the change in the category of alternative options can be taken, especially by the activation initiatives in lower part of the Tubes, all three. It refers, among other things, to a special representative of the European Union and other accounts. A respectable president. Hv. The job board has discussed the case, called after a number of reports, and has subsequently received its meeting in 70 parties, a large number of stakeholders, including from the project management of the programme and other relevant parties. There is now a greater proportion, as well as a 1st smaller section of the Committee, and from the 2nd small part of the employment committee, with a prenuption, as I came in here at the beginning. The majority of these committees have proposed changes to include the following activation initiatives in the Southland for innovation class. Change proposal comes with the opinion. It can be found on page 18. 9 of the Committee committee and the following advantages I shall have to read here, by permission of the president: Urgerative activation, Holtic activation, Curiodentic activation, and Haemagglutination. It also shows that all of these inducers were originally placed into a category of innovation in the results of step 2 task management, and that the greater part was mainly based on this conclusion. Now, in fact, the smaller part in the past few days has stopped me from telling you, the progress of the matter on the agenda, and is here constantly in the past, in the conference, and in the critical format of the case. I'm not making this particular remark to that, more dignified president, but I'm just describing the progress the matter has made on the program of the council. If a minister changes the proposals of a project administration as it is available, a minister should make these changes in the reporting process, such as the then supreme. The minister of Svandís Svavarsdóttir did indeed when she brought up the prime option for a waiting party, as the project was originally proposed in stage two. But there is no mention in this law, No. 48/2011, regarding the case at the General Assembly, whether these changes may be made to the minister's proposal. Now, however, the president has decided that the matter is deemed acceptable and that more things are involved. The employment committee referred in their opinion to the International Parliamentary Congresss, which stipulates adjustments in the matter of Congress and is also referred to the Constitutional court granted to sue the Council. A respectable president. We, what. Councilmen, of course, can see the meaning or internality of the form, but we can certainly ask ourselves how beneficial it is for a minister to be able and to legalize these laws on the framework plan, No. 48/2011, a change in the proposals of the project administration, made suggestions for the council, but to the council and then to the council. Thereafter, members of Congress must not suggest a change in the proposal of a minister according to a professional review procedure. I'd like to, by permission of a respectable president, to quote or refer to the EEA's review, which actually shows what we're dealing with. The EEA's review says, with permission of the President: The current secretive proposal, as well as past experiences, sheds light on the defects of the process. The methodology proposed by the No. 48/2011, i.e. to define activation options and sort them according to the defined methods, including For the treatment of government matters only, i.e. in the Commission, which ends with the proposal for a proposal to be made by the Environment and Resource Minister on the basis of the procedure described in the law. After the proposal has arrived at the General Assembly, members of the Parliament can make adjustments, just as we can all the legal bills and political arrangements. The more formal requirements would need to be explained as to how the council should be treated. I believe that this is a very important observation that makes it necessary for us to reevaluate this process, which is not a very long experience and the EEA considers it important to review the current law of No. 48/2011, of the protection and energy efficiency programme, is included. This is a new strategy, which is natural to reconsider in the light of experience. As we discuss this matter and come to a conclusion on the basis of present circumstances, we need to examine the matter from this point of view. On the other hand, I cannot understand the claim that the spirit of the law is like that of many men. The people of the assembly have spoken and spoken many times. They have perished. There may well be a lack of knowledge or understanding of the spirit of the law, but I believe to make myself understand this statement from the EEA, which explains in some respects the confusion of the case here at the General Assembly. It is true that in the laws on the protection and energy efficiency programme there is a comprehensive set of legislation on the use of hydropowers and pollutants, including The position of that strategy is laid down for government administration. They are designed to establish the basis of professional assessment and grouping of activation initiatives, which were adopted here at the General Assembly by all members of each body, thus confirming the opinion of all members of the Parliament that the Act guarantees the ability of careful, targeted and beyond any professional policy development and the basis for reconciliation and policy on the use and protection of nature and land areas that are involved and that no one can doubt about it, and I am fully aware of that fact. It's absolutely necessary for us to have this tool at peace. This purpose cannot be divided. However, the balance we need to feel is crucial between protection and innovation, how we use our opportunities for employment development, the basis of development on the basis of future life forms. This balance will always be based on the need and how it is most reasonable to use our resources in this area so that they will provide the greatest benefit to the nation. We have been able to deal with the great General Assembly to work on a policy-relevant legislation, which requires that we make policy decisions there. The more participant activities of the employment committee offer a good reason that the procedure as outlined in the law does not necessarily result in the loss of decisions for practical and efficient use. These include information collections for environmental assessments. I'm going to give a witness on page 24. 4, which says, by permission of the president: The aim of environmental assessments is to contribute to sustainable development and to reduce environmental impacts as well as to contribute to environmental planning. In other words, it has been claimed to the Commission that the work of the Management Board in part reversed the search and request data on aspects that are more likely to be under environmental impact under the legislation on environmental impact assessment, No. 106/2000 (Environmental Assessment). There will be late evaluations and e.g. not authorised for activation unless the environmental impact assessment is available. In addition, it may be difficult to provide some guidelines for the environmental assessments and for the environmental assessment of projects. I can see no better than this, a respectable president, although, of course, there is never too careful or careful action, but it may happen that the process will be repeated and repeated and that it may be possible for activation options or regions that make sense to avoid or even close to the process in a novelty process. The majority of these points correctly to a trend toward a novelty class, i.e. Although this classification suggests that it can be activated, it is not a prescription for activation. If I cross-check the activation options that are made in the conversion of the larger part, then the debate has been a major focus on activation in the lower part of the Tubular ulcer, i.e. Acrobats, Holts and Hahbytes. These advantages were placed into a new category in the second stage of a frame plan and have been found to worry about negative effects in this year's salmon stocks, resulting in all benefits being added to a waiting party. Reports and information on counter measures and responses have been provided to protect fish stocks since then. Then the more part gives a good reason for bringing back a waiting category, and you can read about in the majority wing on page 5. 8, which says, by permission of the president: The plan is to use a function of a function of two man-made mediums, and the activation becomes largely invisible to those passing the area. The only visible construction, except for roads, will be nearly a mile [1 km] of drainage canal from a drain drain to the flowway to the sea of Crimea. It can also be noted that the cost of removing visible structures and closing exits is not overwhelming and is therefore reversible. The activation will be linked to the transport system via a ground cord. There is no need for a wide variety of water in Hags. The head of the work committee, Jón Gunnarsson, has agreed with the Supreme Court. Environment Minister suggested that the change from the proposal to remove Hague Lake from a waiting category to a novelty party. A respectable president. When we talk about lower wounds and you review the data to which the case is fundamental, including A number of the comments of the parties who gave reviews and came to meet each other. The job committee will tell me, as I learned earlier in my speech, that there are many of them who believe that there are enough data to be discussed about the fact that professional assessments have taken place. I'm not going to decide here and now, but I've discussed the advantages and the basic proposals and what is the basis for the project management of the Framework Programme. Both shape and content has been discussed. However, I would like to say that many fine and informative talks have been held on the part of the minority. Of course, it is very important for us to go through that speech. Of course we'll agree, but it's still important that we work on it here, and now I'm going to watch the policies so important in this process to improve the standard of living so that the use and protection of the resources will be a key factor in this process. I will always be a follower because we lay down our most skilled professional opinions and that we build up our professional ways and build up in the greatest agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u25	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I would have liked to hear her day - to - day work, but I'm content to listen to her when it's time to become one. Hv. A senator spoke of the importance of reconciliation and spoke of his firm adherence to the process that had been introduced by the Law on a Framework Plan. He also said that there seemed to be some question as to how to interpret the law, perhaps some of the laws need to be tailored to. All right. Counts 'em out. Councilman that it is the correct order of events that the Council takes up the proposal for four initiatives as the currently active project management, not to be a project management in stage 2, but to the currently active task management, and according to the framework of the programme, to discuss the priming options it has been given? Counts 'em out. Senator that it is the proper order for us to cancel a suggestion for possible activation as a project management, which is now being carried out has not been completed coverage at the same time. A member of the council here will discuss his concern the need for this differing understanding of the law? Does he believe that this is the right order of events? Second, I'd like to ask who. A member of the council what it is then that push this dilemma on the subject, what task are they being given? It has been said: There are many tasks to be faced. But no one has specifically mentioned this assignment. There are speculations that one of four plants is going to produce energy, another place where energy is guaranteed. What are some tasks that must be carried out so rapidly that they cannot wait until the 2016 task management is completed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u26	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for her questions. The first question was, if there were doubt cases where I had expressed myself in the talk about meeting a professional process, where the currently active task management has not finished its professional assessments. I think this is how I feel about the evidence I have -- now I'm going to reiterate that I'm working through a majority opinion and I'm reading down the evidence and that I'm building this final opinion and solid evidence that I'm working with a more modified section -- there's evidence that there's enough evidence for such a professional evaluation. Similarly, when we reach the formality, I feel that we can't do so - even if we follow a certain process because I took it into my speech about the formalities - the rules outweigh the goals. It's my attitude right now. In terms of energy demand, I agree completely with that. Senator. I've been looking for the data from the projects that represent the exact energy demand and the urgency and speed it needs to be. I haven't reached or got an accurate interpretation of it. It's the exact comment you're making at the moment. A senator's opinion is that this is important. I'll keep calling for that evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u27	Thank you. A senator for honest answers. I took it because he said the rules can't go beyond our goals. But what's the goal, anyway? A senator, in view of the purpose of a law on a frame plan, was it to create some kind of process of reconciliation? We can see that by passing that process, i.e. passing by the current project management, we are not reaching the goal of making peace with people where to protect and where to use. That's why, if the rules don't weigh the target down, I'll say what goals are. A senator to refer to? If we agree on what I believe we are, it's important that we get these matters in the process that we're not primarily deciding the activation process just out of politics but not from professional opinion, then it just counts that we're faithful to the goal of trying to create this way of reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u28	Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter. I think we're talking a whole thing. I believe we need to clarify our morphological requirements. Now I don't have the final solution to the process. There is a clear disagreement, we should tell this final conclusion in the frame process when a minister values the qualities suggested and drives between classes, and if he or she has to change the law according to a narrative procedure, nothing like the highest level. Minister of last election period did. However, the proposal comes into the council, and many feel that they have members of the council, and they say they are allowed to have opinions about it, and they will be in a similar saying. [[The president calls.]] I think we need to clarify this before we can decide.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a good and honest speech. I was one of the ears to listen to the language of a man. Because I really want to understand what this case looks like from the viewpoint of a majority senator. After listening to the talk, I felt that I was getting some sense of something. You have to ask questions, too. Now I have no doubt. A senator means it when he says that he wants this process to be all professional and decisions taken on a professional basis, but the form is blurred. You may agree that the form is blurred in some way. The law does not in itself say how the treatment should be handled, but it does show in the law which party to take to classify, that is, the task management. So the question can be asked. A senator whether he agrees with the basics. And I'm wondering, if we're beginning to say that there's some sort of defect in the form, if that means that we're in the position where we're actually going to be putting activation options in a novelty party because they found a window in the law. I would never have had an imagination to it in all this discussion about a frame plan that one day such a modification proposal would come from a senator where he would just put more priming options into a novelty party. You can imagine more windows. You can present a special Senate case, a bill, to activate, and to go completely past a frame plan. Is that a good place? Actually, I should say the question to what? Senator: If you went to these inducers on the basis of this adjustment, you would be disturbed. A senator proudly, in view of all his professional demands, to have conducted it here at the council? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u30	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson for nuclear questions. I don't know if pride is the right word. It's very important, so I restate on it now, that we work professionally at how we balance the protection and use of nature, including with regard to our future work ethic. No formal requirements should ever become such that you are looking for some gaps to do something. This must be based on professional factors. A number of comments by the people we were about to say are more producing, indicating that data is sufficient and that these benefits, including those, are shown to be sufficient. in the lower part of the Tubular wound, a novelty was taken from her, despite the professional assessment of the 2nd class. There's this profound difference. Now I don't have a seat. It's a professional committee, and I'm not on this proposal. I've read all the committee books, I'm working my way through them, and I'm evaluating the case as professionally as possible. I see different messages in a number of comments. I will not sign anything or anything unless it is certain that there is a professional basis for what we are doing here. This is big.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u31	A respectable president. I think we're getting closer to some common understanding. If we agree on being a professional person, we have a law code that says how it is a professional opinion to be conducted. I hear what I'm talking about. A senator would agree that it is not good to try to get activation through by making use of some possible gap in the environment that I feel is being done. I call it illegal, but you can call it someone else's name. I'd hit by one thing, too. Senator. He used the expression "superfine, " or slow - ups. I don't know if the Senator deliberately chose that expression, but it made me wonder if a certain precaution is as important to the senator as it is to me, namely, to me. that nature enjoys the doubt, and it's not really too late to activate anything and that there's a difference between waiting for something because it needs more information - that's what happened during the last season - and putting something into a sort of novelty out of random reasons because it's out of collective agreements or some sort of thing that's actually deteriorated. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is not nature meant to enjoy the doubt? Why don't we take precautions?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u32	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Guðmundur The Steingrímsson for very good questions that are important because they lead you through the discussion to realize what this is all about. I'm just gonna say yes. I believe that when I was talking about the time factor, I was talking about the context of the environmental assessment of what is taking place and then later the environmental assessment, which is the environmental assessment of performance. I have come across comments that what may temporarily delay the process is that nature enjoys the doubt when it comes to protection and the use of it. I agree with that. Another is a weakness in the talk. I'm also going to point out that for the development of land activation, it is important that the role-change between the framework plan, the assessment of the environmental impact of implementation and the granting of the activation and other causes are clear. [[The president calls.]] It appears repeatedly, not just in land induction, that data is being recycled over and over again. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u33	A respectable president. One thing I really like about what I do. A senator is that he is very polite, the kind that I sometimes call intellectual courtesy. I'm glad to hear it. The senator is very sincere about how you can accurately move this framework thing all the way forward so that there's a really good deal, about the process at least, I have a lot of respect for it. I wondered, in view of all that has been presented here, it is clear that this particular method is not acceptable. The real problem with the procedure is, in fact, my opinion that the Council has extraordinary power through the council. The general council might conclude that gold Falls will be activated. I specifically mention it because no one wants to activate the gold Falls. I specifically mention it as an example that I know that everyone agrees to underscore the authority of the council. If we're going into the process of dealing with the individual inducers in the synonym, we're back on the political path we've tried to take off a frame plan. That's why I wonder which way. A senator can share more with us the vision he has on how to adapt the professional process so that the political part of the process that we see here is not needed. Surely, all of us would agree that we would prefer the framework to work and that the United States has respect for it. It's not just about what's available for Congress, it's called Congress to suggest that Gold Falls be activated, no one in here would ever think of it, but it's a connoisseur. It's legal, it can be done. [[The president calls.]] I wondered how we're going back to the track, where it's more professional than political because, naturally, the more overwhelming political, the inevitable part. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u34	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson for a good question and warm words to me. I loved to hear it, and I think it's important that we put forth effort to resolve matters and keep talking about them. I think we can work this out. We all want to keep on a professional career. We all want to keep the laws and the tools we have and that we have learned. We can, I believe, fix it, but we have to decide, I don't have a solution here and now, but we have to decide what the process is going to be like. When the minister is given this counselful opinion, he can - I know why. A senator has thought of it and has discussed it here, the part with the minister - as part of the Commission, and then here the legislature is the political issue. Of course, we do not know exactly what the highest reason is. A minister makes these changes when he leaves a waiting party or vice versa, but now this is not a long experience. Today, we face the challenge of wanting to make these changes. I think we need to finish it into the law all the way. I don't have a solution here and now how we can see it for ourselves, but I think it can't be that way -- at least we need to explain these formal requirements very accurately how we deal with it at the council. [[The president calls.]] I haven't really gone any further than that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u35	A respectable president. I have every respect for that. That's as far as I'm concerned myself. I find that the exact problem is to resolve the situation with this adjustment at this point. If it were to be agreed under these circumstances and in the light of all the facts that have been presented, both the topic of the Council and the way the Environment Ministry considers this, how the potential charges would be reported, etc. and, of course, as just political agreements about the box, I'm afraid of it and just let myself say that every attempt we're going to attempt to make in the future, which I'm inclined to think of. A senator will, if not simply impossible political, at least during this terms and no doubt the next, if this goes through now because we are in subsequent discussions and the proposed changes have come up and there seems to be more to them. The majority of people seem to be quite prepared to exercise power and boast well of it. I think this suggestion in itself stands in the way of any effort I might wish. A senator will agree with me that we need to step in to gain some peace of mind about the process. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u36	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Hrafn Drafni Gunnarsson for speculation in a second answer, we are in a similar position in this case. We need to finish the situation as it is. I'll handle the case like the council that's going to happen, but they're warning you here, you have to read through a lot of reports, about 70 people. It's a case coming out of the committee and it's got a new proposal. I need to take a stand for it and read myself through it. It follows, whether we look at the last terms or what is now and the disagreement we have about whether the matter is being passed or not, etc., we don't want to get involved again. We don't want to waste time and energy. I have full respect, to be told, for the logical stand of the members of my body and the way they fight in this matter as long as they come up here and argue for it, it also helps us to get over the matter as it is. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Now I may be speaking for myself here, as I am considering the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u37	Yesterday's president came up with a program proposal, which is as follows: ▪ We signed it, making our suggestion in line with 1st. 77st. Conventional protocol that the next meeting will be as follows: 1st The job of the Senate. 2. Special discussions, housing issues. Adolescent: Árni Páll Árnason To the contrary: Eygló Harðardóttir, social and housing minister. 3. The situation in the labour market, the oral report of the prime minister. 4. Electrical law (systemistical programme, EEA rules), Industrial and Business Directoring, 305 suit, 1005. It's called "System" on deck. 1091 and 1226, respectively. 1092 and 1227, 3rd. 5. Government policy on adjusting electrical lines, the management of industrial and commercial ministers, 321 cases, sector. 392 committees on deck. 973 and 986, leading committees on deck. 1228, continuation of the second. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Björt Ólafsdóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u38	A respectable president. We are now wasting the time of the council on a proposal that is both controversial and not ready on the part of those who pronounce it in the future. So, members of the administration body, we suggest that we come here to useful things and work on matters centered on the interests of this nation. Therefore, we suggest that this day be done in the council work, there will be special discussions on housing, and then the work market will be scheduled, where Prime Minister would give a verbal report. I could use some, tops. In the discussion about the box yesterday, the prime minister claimed that the frame was the tool that would solve the workforce. He's alone about that, and it's important that he come here and report the position of the labour market and put it in some logical context of the statements he's made here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u39	A respectable president. We take note of a program that is offered on grounds. For a few days we have been discussing the adjustment in the conference resolution form on a frame plan where a very detailed adjustment form has been made from a greater part of the labour committee and, in addition to the change in proposals not yet seen in a Senate document, neither of itself nor of logical support to it nor of a report, is very important, respectable President, that there will be no continuation of a discussion on this program until the situation has actually been resolved. We feel that there will be no more pleasure than the withdrawal of the adjustment proposal, as it suggests, that Congress work can go on normally and in order to pay for it. I propose and will vote for, as well as for the members of the VG party, the change in schedule and consider it very important in view of a serious situation in the community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u40	A respectable president. It is simply a very serious situation in society, and we are obliged to have these matters on the program at the council rather than to say that more part of the workaholics are under question. I'm asking a world of Congress to imagine a different scenario than the one that's been in the Senate hall for the past few days. It is possible to consider the proposal of a environmental minister as proposed to include inactions. That's why there's good evidence. This proposal has already gone through the task management program and the discussion has been completed. The other activation options suggested up to that point have not passed through the legal framework. While these fortresses would be approved here with the adjustment proposal, it would no doubt translate the legal process, and it is not as if it must be realized right away so that we can simply postpone this case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Refuse the adjustment form, disseminate the matter, and consider more serious matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u41	A respectable president. This is not the first time that the members of my body propose this program. It shows that we are here filled with the will to discuss the issues that are urgent. It is not true, as some may think, that it is an independent goal to paralyze the General. On the contrary, we want the General to handle the issues that need to be handled. There is no need to take the frame at the present time. You don't have to activate HQ tomorrow. No five-fold activation option is required right now. On the other hand, they need to be talked about. The matter of housing needs to be discussed, and fortunately it will be done anyway. We need to talk about a lot of serious problems in society, and we're here to do that. This proposal is to show that this is where we want to discuss what is urgent and what is important for society right here and now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u42	A respectable president. We've been doing a whole week about the bad things that are going on with this case when it clearly violates the law on a frame plan that's actually being shown. Adding to the facts that one of the activation options has been announced, the case has not come back and changed, and it is properly introduced into the council, it has completely no longer been allowed to discuss this matter. The Parliament is that cases are reinvested into committees and brought back to the Hall of Congress. Then came out of last night's discussion. paritaprevir The Ásmundur of Friðriksson's son say that the understanding of more part of the trade committee has gone into the work it has begun. In that light, there is also good reason for the case to return to the real treatment of the committee. From what? A senator called for solidarity and asked that professionals be allowed to work on these works. [[The president calls.]] To do this, a frame plan was created. That is a suggestion. Let us allow professionals to do those things.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u43	Mr. President. At the stand of the government, we adjust the program for the council. As we discussed last night, things are changing in the light of the situation. Ásmundur Friðriksson gave a fine talk that showed that the representatives who made this much adjustment in the frame are gradually drawing ashore. His speech could not be understood otherwise than for any to be prepared to reconsider their decision on this adjustment arrangement. I think it's quite time for us to take this matter out of our schedule and to take on a more urgent subject for discussion, such as the position in the job market, which is very serious. The news reports that the VR and the Flea Coalition broke down with the employment community. This is no small news, and we should focus on more urgent matters at the council, discuss them, and stop this character on a subject that is not meant to be here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u44	A respectable president. This is a formal proposal from us in our memory, an attempt to change the program of the council, and to bring it up to the extent that there is a greater agreement and a greater need to discuss here, in view of the serious situation facing society. I think we should all listen to a heartwarming speech. paritaprevir Ásmundur son of Friðriksson, who moved yesterday on the necessity of solidarity, should come together here and figure out a way out of this. The fact is, land induction has told us that it is ready to engage in Aggression. Whatever the case, it will not be debated that the task management has suggested that it alone be suspended for use. It doesn't matter what you think has been done during the last terms, if you follow the code of law in this, you have to follow the procedure that has been determined in this room of all classes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u45	V.E.G. President. Here is a proposal, an effort, an experiment, an attempt, and a challenge from the government stand to get the council to work and deal with the most burning issues in our lives. We're talking about a job market situation that's totally unacceptable, and we got the bad news yesterday that they didn't call it a meeting, either in the BHM strike battles or in the general public markets. We have every reason to discuss these things. A moderate proposal for a solution to what has been discussed here in the context of a frame is to request that the proposal of the government and the Supreme Court be proposed. Environment Minister for Impulse Implementation shall be discussed, i.e. Take her to a committee, and then you will see how the council's work is done and how it's done. Others go through the project management where they will be taken on equal terms. It may take two, three months, and then it's in September, and it doesn't change the progress of the case unless we get professional publicity and professional conclusions. [[The president calls.]] This is a moderate demand for our solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u46	V.E.G. President. Because of the proposal we're discussing here, I'm saying that I don't support it and will vote against it, as the program is here for us and the President has arranged for us to leave today, as we continue the discussion of the box. Last night, some excellent and grammatical talks were delivered, some eight talks between the talks discussed by the president's conference board. I think we're just supposed to slide into the program that the President has put into place, continue the discussion, and pass the schedule of the memory of the part.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u47	Mr. President. Despite the wind. Unnur I'll tell youBrá Konráðsdóttir Consleydddótttir, he'll come riding on a council for more war. A president from the time that even my life - tested heart was moved by his speech. paritaprevir Friðriksson's last night. I support this suggestion because it is in the spirit of the cry as it is. A senator suggested that men discuss the conversation and try to work out a mutual solution. I support that this matter will be canceled. They do not have the highest support. Environment and resource minister, it's not in the spirit of the law, according to the Environment Ministry, it's also in opposition to the law, and I think it's time for us to take up other matters, matters that concern the people of the country, the chicken business, where the government doesn't take a finger to come up with the solution. It is also the burning of facilities on the people of the land. These are the situations we should be discussing, Mr. President. [[The president calls.]] That's why I support the program proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u48	A respectable president. Here's the program for the council. If people are interested in talking housing, let's get going.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u49	What about the chicken business?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u50	And what? paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson calls here the games and regularly reviews the facts of his life and good if he's not just come to heaven, which is the North countries. When has a group member been released from the public assembly's symposium? [[Up front.]] When has this been done?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u51	Is it just the freckler who's supposed to be in charge?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u52	This calls for a call of freckles that feels bad about their own language. He knows exactly that, unfortunately, we will not solve the serious situation of this conversation. I'm sorry. [[Up front.]] But if you want to discuss your housing issues, let's get on with it and we'll have to get on with it as soon as possible. There are certain members who delay it. If you want the case to go to a committee that is very important, i.e. This structure, let's finish this material discussion, review it, and discuss it on a committee. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] This is totally up to the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u53	A respectable president. If this last speech is not a reason to accept this program proposal, I don't know what, if the members of the board don't realize that we're in the final discussion on the subject, the final discussion of a frame plan. There is no other discussion. Yet, while the discussion continues to change the subject, they talk about potential solutions here and there, making changes that are not proposed. The case is not ready. That's why we suggest that we include: that people begin to focus on urgent matters that are ideal for the people of the land. V.E.G. Prime Minister connected a frame plan to the voters. So it is only natural that today's program will be a debate, he will report it to us. Part of what plan is a frame plan in a fight resolution? No one else is saying this but him. Therefore, a respectable president, we call out that today's program will be the prime minister with a verbal report on this subject. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] What are we doing here, Mr. Honorable President? Why were men here elected?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u54	Mr. President. Like the ones mentioned here, we may prefer to vote for a program proposal to see if we are going to finish the discussion or not. In fact, the fact is that those who have discussed this matter for many days do not seem to want to discuss it now and want to get it out of the program. But it's probably a vote, and hopefully you will respect the conclusion that it can become if more things are meant to continue the discussion and finish it. I'm not going to go back to review how this case was held during the last term, I criticized it at the time. But much of that time was accomplished by means of the strategy. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has even. Wrote about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u55	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u56	But now there is a suggestion to do this in a different way, and the question is, Can the council promote the will of more of the matter? [[Up front.]] That's the question I think the people are asking themselves. Is it possible for the council to resolve one matter after a week's talk or so, or is that not possible? [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u57	V.E.G. President. I support the program suggestions that are presented here to dismiss the subject, to be delegating the program, and to take on an urgent matter. I support it because we've already been in such a crisis at the General Assembly, one of which has come from a business committee, these are fish and fishing costs, the system plan of the power system, etc., where there have been a lot of debates and debates. Then people have taken matters on the program, referring them back to committees in an effort to make peace with them. Now I feel that a lot more executives are starting to talk like a dog. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson did last night. Environmental Ministers do not support this proposal, and the Environment Ministry says the process is illegal, that the Council cannot make such a change. In the name of reconciliation, I think this proposal should be approved and referred to the committee. [[The president calls.]] Let us consider whether there is no room for reconciliation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u58	V.E.G. President. I second that suggestion. First, the adjustment is linked to opposition to the law. Second, it has been observed that the highest support is unclear. Environment Minister and then in what way and on what issues. Changes have been made to the unproved adjustment proposal, let alone support, and it is unacceptable to continue a discussion without being available, and fourthly it was presented as such. A major professional body member last night, although he suggested that Urnarfós go to the cheerleading party, a member of the Parliament, in effect, wanted him to be protected. This shows that we should submit to the professional assessment of the project and work on the basis of it, and I therefore support the proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u59	A respectable president. I would like to express our satisfaction that we are about to vote for the program at the General Assembly. You see, when people don't get together and disagree, they just have to vote, and I hope that the smaller part is undecided. I hope so, because I think it's rather well planned on hearings about the President's conference board. This points to the fact that this matter is not permitted to be taken on the program, but it is a matter of respecting the decision of the general president. Is it not time for this matter to be arranged at the council's vote so that the will of the Environment Ministers and other members of the Parliament should be performed? [[He's not going to be allowed to appear...]] Is that not the natural course of the Allied Icelanders? - Those who made us talk here between Christmas and New Year and summer and so on. [[It's the front call of the Senate Hall.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it not reasonable for the General to have their routine, and we do not have to put up with any more boring talks on the President's Board of Meetings?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u60	Mr. President. This suggestion for a changed program, of course, that may be much longer. It may contain one 20 cases ready for coverage and payment and many of the undisputed cases, and it may well have been assumed that between ten and fifteen basics had become legal if this war bomb had not been thrown into the council a week ago. If we consider the beginning of this matter, it is that the minister writes a letter to the project management asking her to speed up her inspection of six, eight activation options. The task management does, yields to the minister and says that this is the basis for changing the classification of one category of activation, of one advantage of a waiting category, of whale activation. The minister agrees and agrees with the results of the project administration, adding one thing at the council, the former Supreme Court. Environment Minister. Current level. The Environment Minister has said that she agrees with him, so, of course, it is as if everyone else is trusting in this highest power. Minister, this step will begin at the council at the head of most of the employment committee. [[The president calls.]] They had already confirmed the professional results of project management and were naturally mentally depressed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u61	Cowards and sluts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u62	[Centennial Hall. [[The President must be asking for a sound in the councilroom.]] [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u63	The president would like to draw the members of the council to their attention if they missed the fact that they are to have a word exchange in the council's symposium.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u64	A respectable president. There is good reason to welcome the statement made by the vice president of the Independence Party on this discussion. He gives an opportunity, likely on behalf of the council council chairman, that the case presented here is going to the committee for further discussion. However, there may be some misunderstanding in the case of the senator that it would be safe to complete the discussion, but obviously it will not be possible for a committee unless the discussion continues and was delayed, since it is a subsequent discussion of a synonym. So that the president can make a suggestion. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - god of Þór Þórðarson's son to bring the matter up to the committee is essential to agree with this program now and thus address the call. paritaprevir From last night on, an ace of Ásmundur's Friðriksson... about going back to the job committee... trying to figure out some kind of personal solution... but stopping this nonsense here in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u65	A respectable president. What is involved in this is our desire in the memory of the fact that the rules in a frame plan are being followed. What guidelines have been provided regarding the General Assembly? What is the right of minor members of this discussion? It is the right of all of us to make proposals for a change on the program, and when we are unhappy with the program, we have the right, all members of the council, to come up here and discuss under the supervision of President exactly that we are very at odds with what is on the program. [[Up front.]] We believe that other matters should be on the program. [[Up front.]] What's a what? Senators of the Management Board, huh? paritaprevir Is Höskuldur the Þór of Þórhallsson, the God-sambler Þór Guðlaugur, og Unnur, the daughter of Congis, to say here? Stop talking! Stop it! We're going for a vote. It is the custom of the senators to come up here and express their opinion on the program, and it will not be taken away from us by any member of the council. [[The president calls.]] Stop talking! It just doesn't work. [[The president calls.]] We can have a program like this every day, what? paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u66	Mr. President. I join my comrades in the opposition and support the suggestions here on the program. It is also possible to wonder, for example, when discussing a judicial hearing, such as I mentioned to the president yesterday, whether it is possible to present dramatic changes after the government has seen the greater part of discussing a case that appears to be in fulfillment, because it is necessary to extend the council to provide some matter of importance to the government. However, we have certain issues that we can resolve. I'm asking the highest. A president whether he had or thought about talking with the heads of the administrations and members of the council on the program. I think it's a good thing to do it right now and try to make peace with this matter so that there's some decent way to finish here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u67	V.E.G. President. I support the program proposal, a change in the schedule that is set here. As noted repeatedly about the president's meeting board in the past, the subject on this program is not under discussion. A verbal adjustment has been offered. We haven't been able to see it in writing. This is the last discussion on this subject. When we discuss the matter, we need to keep it in order, and unfortunately, the talks have clearly been published. The members of the greater part have moved here today that they seem simply not to know how the situation is growing. This is the only discussion left. Therefore, the matter must be reviewed by a committee and in order to make changes in the program. Therefore, we should support the adjustment of our schedule.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u68	Mr. President. This program is actually a life - saving cycle for those in charge. Didn't have the highest. The minister of finance was able to grab that life cycle, instead, he took the holes to collect so that the last government had now done this and the rest regarding a frame plan and that it had noticed some benefits of a legal process and had been suspended, so there's a lot of evidence to show who had caused it today. It was pretty naive, I thought, of the highest kind. The secretary of finance, that he was not more mature than that, and that he did not increase in maturity when the main hold in this matter is the rit of Aphesar, Össur of Skarphéðinn, who has been advertised here very strongly by the General's symposium and agent, hv. Vigdís Hauksdótttir, gave his talk to him yesterday. [[Don't talk about him like that.]] [[Great book. Great book.]] [[Great book.]] I think the highest. Secretary of finance should try to lead this government, not to be so naive. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u69	A respectable president. Let's talk about it. paritaprevir Of course, the god - Guðlaugur of Þór Þórðarson's son, the vice president of the Party of Independence, earlier showed that the matter is not available to be planned. The case has been here for a week. A senator believes that this will happen to a committee. That's exactly what we've been calling for, it's that the case is going to go to the committee, and it's going to be changed, as the majority of the items have foretold to be changed, and it's being prepared for material discussion. You know, about the diamond in the highest. The secretary of finance that it is a question whether the Allied Congress will be able to bring the greater portion against them, it is quite simply that the greater part does not automatically have the right to bring all matters into consideration if it violates the law and if it violates the Congress. Here the issue is being made in a way that they fail to pass a clear law code, and under these circumstances, it is decided that the majority of the items should be placed here to make matters better and better on without proper progressive progress. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u70	A respectable president. Make up a larger part of the employment committee may be illegal, and it may not be in accordance with a frame plan, it may not be professional, but let's just vote on it, agree with it, and then we'll agree. It's an offer from the greater part of the world. You must use your only right that you have, which you're just talking and saying your opinion to protest this offer and try to tell the government that it's unacceptable. Let's take one of the facts. Scramble activation, Holtic activation, Skuffalda. Whether or not these activation options are to be entered into a novelty party is being observed elsewhere. This is being discussed in a legal process in a frame management programme. Just for that reason, there is absolutely no need for us to spend our time here to discuss this matter. Don't be. And only on the part of the program. That's a lot of power the President gets. I need to accept that issues following a case I present at the council will not even be discussed in the Senate Hall and hardly be discussed in a committee. [[The president calls.]] I need to accept that. But when this is the line of application to this power, to be part of the program, I must insist on one request for support and answers to questions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u71	A respectable president. Let's talk about it. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son here in the past actually highlights the situation here at the council. He comes up in a pita and points out that this may be a vote for him, but he is extremely certain in his account of the outcome, natural, because we know how it's going to turn out. Now I'm not a messenger to this program proposal, certainly I support it, but I view it as impossible to go through because we know how the Council wins. This is primarily proof that the smaller part is fully prepared to discuss matters that are urgent and important and essential here and now for society. As is usually the major part, I expect - this is prophecy, I'm going to allow myself to do this, a respectable president - not because it's the democratic will of the people, not because it's part of some professional process, no, but because he can do it as he can, and then he's going, over and over again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u72	Mr. President. It may not be appropriate to say, but if it can be done to please the assembly, there are still 12 copies of the book that has been discussed here. However, the discussion continues, and the bodies often come from unexpected directions. I'll call attention to what. The U.S. Senate is designed to do so. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þór of Þórðarson offered here from his mild heart that this case be brought to the committee. I'd like to take that offer. I think it would be very important if we were to get a discussion on the subject on the committee, as it were. A senator offered earlier. The reason why I believe it is important is that at least one of the members of the Independence Party who gave a speech here last night is that he was ignorant of the memory of the Department of Resources and Environment that explained why it is in opposition to the law to make this proposal. Therefore, I request that the proposal be accepted and the committee be given the opportunity to inform both the government and the government state of what to do and cannot be ruled by the Ministry. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u73	A respectable president. I do not support the proposal presented here. But it is very strange to realize that this is a structured program for discussion with every part of the program, whether it is in the President's conference board, votes, members of the council, or ministers, but not in the right part of the program. Here is a material discussion about a frame plan under all these programs, but unfortunately, a respectable president, the opposition does not want to put the matter on the agenda at all. Yet they discuss it here day after day. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u74	... geta minister to come in...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u75	Clean by sight. It's not about making peace. It's about wanting the government to control it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u76	A respectable president. The situation today is that we have here, anti-continents, calling a president for a few days, and trying to help him see this in the light of the discussion and the situation that it is inconceivable to have the case planned. We have kept doing so, and we have reasoned, and the discussion has actually helped us to appreciate the importance of taking the matter into consideration and trying to get some medical experience involved in it. [[Up front.]] Here in the discussion of the past few days, two things have happened, one on the other. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson described his desire to look for ways to make peace. It has also been noted in his case that he did not study the legal opinion of the Environment Ministry, although he signed the changes made to a greater part of the workaholics. That's serious. Hv. paritaprevir The God - Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson here describes his lack of understanding of the matter. He believes that the matter is on his way to a committee - between what discussion? Or is he suggesting that the matter be addressed to a committee now under 2. ... awrong.? [[The president calls.]] If it is, I'm happy to do it. But I ask a body of Congress and a member of Congress to take a look at it just by themselves and to make a personal decision as to whether it is not right to take the matter out of the way and try to put it on a more upbuilding course. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u77	A respectable president. We will discuss the vote, to cancel the second part of the program here. Here people come and claim that the mood of senators, about the ways of senators, about the development of members of Congress, quotes books written by members of Congress but does not speak of the vote simply because of differences in this matter. Part of the Parliament feels that the proposal is up to date. The decision of the president is in place. Others feel that the suggestion is unacceptable. That's what's about, and that's what's going on here. But I refuse, a respectable president, to be spoken of as being so as to say that their development is poor, that they are mentally weak, and that they do so in a discussion of a vote at the General Assembly of Iceland. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u78	Mr. President. For various reasons, I support this program proposal. But I'd like to mention specifically that the adjustment proposal that has been made here has not been made, so in fact, we don't really know exactly what we're talking about here and what it will be that goes for a vote after a discussion. Second, I'd like to mention that the lack of knowledge of the proposal for a frame plan has been presented in the history of the work done over the past 20 years in the framework plan and now at the last, of the evidence that has been received by the Committee and of the case. There's no disagreement on a proposal at the highest. Environment Minister. There is a disagreement on the making of more than a part of the employment committee that is clearly based on a weak foundation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u79	Mr. President. I would like to reiterate my question that I asked earlier about whether the president of the council members and the heads of the administrations would welcome us to try to resolve how we conduct the Senate work at the end. I agree with what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson, who gave a fine speech yesterday, speaking of professional opinion outside the council, would be worthy to set the case again to the Committee. Then I reiterate my question from last night, where it came from at the highest level. President that he believed that more of the employment committee would submit the required changes to the highest level. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. The Environment and Resource Minister put in here orally. That's what happened. The head of the professional trade committee that it should be discussed with members of the Parliament on how to do so. I wonder if we can expect this adjustment into our discussion today. [[The president calls.]] As mentioned earlier, the discussion is nearing its end, i.e. This is the last ◯see. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u80	Mr. President. We here vote for program proposals, but during a week's hard work, it has shown a very firm attitude in the memory of the rest of the section at the General Parliament that the matter will be taken over and will be sought as a means of dispensing the Councilment of Environment Ministers. At the end of the next election, I would like to remind them that 49.8% of the votes given in the last election, just within 50%, went to the Self - Opportunity and the forward classes, and these two groups have a 60% vote at the General Assembly. When people use that majority power below, I ask them to keep this in mind as well as to express our heartfelt wishes in the memory of the section.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u81	A respectable president. Of course, the surmise to consider making decisions about four huge activations with a simple modification proposal for a later discussion, without being fully discussed at the General Assembly, without having any comments from members of the community or any political treatments, is something that is agitating to all members of the Parliament who have any respect for their work. And I'm waiting, what. paritaprevir Ragnheiður, daughter of Ríkharðsdóttir, is the problem of the people involved with other senators who are trying to protect the respect of the council and the tactics here, for this, a respectable president, is absolutely unscrupulous. Hence, it is normal to agree with a suggestion. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur - god of Þór Þórðarson's son regarding the matter, and the discussion is not to be held, which has also been published by reason of the question. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson. And I encourage the Speaker of the Independence Party to promote the proposals of these fine senators. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u82	V.E.G. President. Keep on trying to find a solution to this great issue. I agree with the motion as a matter of course. paritaprevir Gudla Viðr Þór Þórðarson brought in earlier, to address the case. That's exactly what I was talking about earlier, even though I earned it. A senator does not realize that this is a matter of action and later discussion. Still, a discussion can be stopped, and the committee can take the matter into account in an effort to make peace. There are others who have spoken of it. In a fine speech, sir. paritaprevir He spoke in this spirit yesterday's Ásmundur of Friðriksson's son, and it seems to me that at this great discussion, there is now an issue with other members of the board that the proposals are unconvened and that it upsets the whole matter. A respectable president. V.E.G. The prime minister has said that this matter is important in the struggle, an increase in the lowest salary. If we can handle this soon, would that not be enough for the government to arrive at the table and work out the big issue of work? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u83	Mr. President. This is now proving to be a very expensive expedition that has been introduced here under the warlord's leadership. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u84	There's a lot under there, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u85	The Congress is losing valuable time here, and unfortunately, it is a gradual development between a large section of Congress and a president because it is expected that the discussion will continue on the basis of a very controversial president's decision that the compromise will be judicially sound. [[Up front.]] But concerning this decision of the president, the words were heard here in the corridors at dawn: The decision made by the President of the Days on complex materials. Looking past the law, you might think that Maybe it's okay.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u86	A respectable president. I wonder why. Senators Guðrellur Þór Þórðarson and Ásmundur Friðriksson do not support our proposal. They have suggested that the matter be addressed to a committee, and the case can only be considered as a pause in the discussion. Therefore, it is necessary to agree with this suggestion in order for it to be. So I encourage members of Congress who would like to try to find solutions in the matter and to have a discussion on the committee in order to vote for the proposal. Not all suggestions are necessary simply because they come from the management side, but they are probably acceptable suggestions that come from the lesser part. This is a good suggestion, and in accordance with statements of why. þingmaður of Guðlaugur Þór Thord's son og Ásmundur, son of Friðrk. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u87	A respectable president. Here is the objective attempt of the smaller part of the council to have a positive influence on the activities of the council, in order to establish important and more solid agreements, to refer this matter to the committee for continued work necessary between smaller parts and more of the council. Therefore, I encourage members of Congress to support this program and say yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u88	As soon as the President reminds me. Councilmen are to vote, too, to call attention to the fact that once a vote is started, they cannot be asked to state their vote. Even if one does, the President can't deal with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u89	A respectable president. This suggestion is that we in the management position are offering our support that there will be an upbuilding discussion on how to handle the serious situation in the labour market. They are being struck by the extending of their hand in this vote. This shows much of the Senate's will not to interfere with what is going on at a job market. It's like this shit. Councilmen consider their role in the high Council, i.e. to keep up with the discussion of very controversial matters that have not even been agreed on in the administrative part how to finish. [[Up front.]] At the same time, there is a rift in a job market, and there is no interest in discussing it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u90	Bullshit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u91	And they are not interested in joining us in our government opposition to seek solutions that are upbuilding. [[The president calls.]] That is what this suggestion here is about, and it is not surprising that humans are sensitive to hearing the truth. [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u92	A respectable president. I'll say yes to this proposal, because this is actually the only right thing to do, to take this matter off the program and try to get some more reasonable approach to the situation. It is indeed tragic to think of how a greater part of the council is manned here when the caller, the gasps, the outcasts, and manners begin before the senator begins or opens his mouth. That's the situation here at the council. That's the situation in the middle of nowhere. The members of the body of Congress are one after the other. [[Up front.]] And there will be more and more as this discussion unfolds. [[Up front.]] I want to pray. Senators of the greater part and all of us just look at ourselves now and vote according to our own convictions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u93	A respectable president. I'm just a mortal man, but earlier I was standing in a pit and predicting that this would happen exactly like this. Exactly, so that the more part prefers a vote against a proposal, check, schedule proposal, no subject, and the smaller part will vote with the proposal. [[Up front.]] This, of course, is what we should get used to. This is why listening to even the wording is empty. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The prime minister always challenges the memory and says: "Come to vote, just to vote, let's just settle this. [[Up front.]] I wondered what it would be like in society if we were to decide this so that only 60% of the population was important, 40% in a row was of no consequence. How about that? Would it be democracy?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u94	49.8%.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u95	Would that be wise? It is just as foretold, and it did not need any miraculous ability. Of course, these adjustments will be approved. A professional health committee for the same reason. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I just think it's right that we don't fool around about how things work out here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u96	Mr. President. I vote by this change on the program proposal. In the memory of the section, we are here trying to help out for the council and to take on more important and important matters. But it's amazing when it comes to it. The chairman of a panel of independents is here giving a reproof talk over other members of Congress with great pride and then calling out in the speech of others who are in a speech or speech, a speech of interest. [[Up front.]] Is this an example? I think people should look at themselves and be responsible for their words in this discussion. We're talking about a very serious case here, and we're paying a vote to take this illegal case, which is brought into the council by an illegal way out of the program, and in reality, we're helping a greater part to comply with the law of the country. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u97	A respectable president. I'm praying for respect in my inaccuracies earlier. I understand there have been 70 visitors. A Senate committee and this were discussed at that point. [[Up front.]] I think, sir, a respectable president, if I may finish, it won't help if you take another turn on it. I think all those who have an opinion of the case have expressed their views, and it's like that. paritaprevir mentioned earlier, one nice boy. A senator, to solve the case, we need to vote. But I now believe that there will be some perfunctory discussion in the wake of that vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u98	[[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u99	Paint.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u100	I'm looking for advice from the highest level. President. In the preceding discussion, one of the causes of peace was presented with a sincere wish. The members of the board. Hv. paritaprevir A divinely Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson made his suggestion that the matter be called to a committee for further inspection. I believe that there are many reasons, including... the fact that at least two members of the board have been made aware that in the evidence, there was a clear and convincing position from the lawyers of two advisers who suggest that it is out of harmony with the law to submit this proposal here. And now I seek advice from Mr. President. I'd love to take advantage of this invitation. A member of the council, reinventing the matter on the committee and asking for the highest authority. President, can he help me in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u101	A respectable president. I'm trying to figure out what adjustments we have to make in the subject below. It has been declared here that completing the framework is the priority of the government. What is a priority? Is that the original suggestion? Is that Jón Gunnarsson's motion? Is it the agreement Sigrún Magnúsdóttir with a greater part of the employment committee, which then is not quite clear whether she supports what is stated in the news magazine today, where she says she is not willing to give up her position? [[Up front.]] This debate has become a lot of nonsense, total nonsense, and men have become so out of control in the management team that their frontal shouts are the only contribution they make for this discussion. The treatment of the covenant consists of those who are trying to silence us who are trying to have a conversation with these people. That's all. Let's interrupt this meeting, explain the situation, and see if we can make some peace in this matter. [[The president calls.]] We've proved something else like this here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u102	A respectable president. I must express great disappointment in the result of my vote on the program of this meeting. It would have helped if she had acted differently. It was our perfunctory attempt in the memory of the section to improve the members of the council. I must also express my sadness because of the spirit that is so suggested. To explain why it is presented in two short speeches and in a speech explanation, I declare a great sadness in the fact that a man should associate with democracy in a way that is dealing with democracy in a fit of shock and complaining about man's speech and to explain his viewpoint in this matter. That's our right, and I'm sure that's what people do here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u103	A respectable president. It's easy for senators such as hell. 2.m. s.. For example, sitting, arriving in the office or in a dining room or anywhere, listening to people inside spend their time on this matter. It is easy to point to the lesser part and say, "The bad part is just talking. " Well, at least we're talking. It's easy for the more part to sit on the side of the bench and wait, it's not hard. I'll take off from them. Councilmen who have taken a silent leave of the discussion, including for President's conference board. It is a very important, respectable president, as we can see from the fact that this matter has been discussed for a week in the complete irresponsibility of a respectable president, which I give in perfect respect for a council and a nation and a respectable president. There is a need for this matter to go back to the committee, and there is a possibility that it can be done only by postponing the discussion and, of course, to do so, to a respectable president, of course, that is obvious. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u104	The president has tried to sort out those who have requested to get to the telecommunications file. While it may be a challenge for many to say good - bye at the same time, the president has done so in the best of conscience.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u105	V.E.G. President. Today's program, the administrative body has decided that we will continue to discuss the box. He considers this government's priorities under the present circumstances to continue discussing that matter. I'm not going to argue with the highest level. It's a matter of time for president to wait. To consider very seriously what was in the program proposal, the president is to set up a tomorrow session in the workforce. It is a serious situation when humans are stopped talking to each other. This is also linked to this case because it is the highest. The prime minister has repeatedly pretended that the frame plan is an important entry into revenues due to collective agreements. I would also like to reiterate what I asked repeatedly yesterday and never get the answers, to pray to the highest degree. President to make sure that the highest level. Even if there is no other way, the minister will be there to discuss the box from those viewpoints. [[The president calls.]] I think it's really important that we get the highest. The prime minister to attend this discussion today, and I pray to the highest degree. It's to be used by a president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u106	A respectable president. I'd like to go to the president's office for a meeting with the council members and for us to review the position that has come up here. I wish for the highest. The president specialises at that meeting of the House of Congress in the United States. I think there's good reason to calm members of Congress because there's tremendous tension among members of the Government that can't sit around with gas sprays and frontal calls, basically without the context of what is said in the public chair, so it needs to be considered specifically. That was shown in the news release this morning at the highest level. The minister of the seminar, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, does not feel that she needs to make further an explanation of her position in the matter. This isn't going to work, Mr. Honorable President. The situation of one group at the General Assembly does not work out that the minister of the seminary would express his position on a very decisive change in the big case, the major controversy of the council, in a two-minute vote. [[The president calls.]] People need to be adjusted to see how things are developing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u107	Mr. President. Opinions are the beginning of everything, and that is what we have to say. The members of my sector have been here for the past few days, both in talks and in discussions about a meeting board. We've been trying to tell you that humans cannot perform this change in this interpretation arrangement in the way that has been done. Whether under a meeting regime or in some other way, no one can take away the right to speak about this matter. So I agree with it. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir Svandís Svavarsdótirs of the past and of the majority of ideas that there is a chance that there will be a chance of revising this change, that men will be afraid, would consider this with members of the council, and would discuss this further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u108	V.E.G. President. First, I want to describe my disappointment with the results of the vote. My disappointment is not the least in paying votes, hopefully entirely according to my conscience, I'm not going to keep anything else, but what I thought was so sad that in the talks they gave, it seemed to me, their total ignorance of how the matter was lived here. I feel so sad, and that's why I'm signing and praying to the President that he will interrupt the meeting, call the senators to the table, and we're trying to get the case to some point where we're at least talking about the same thing here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u109	A respectable president. I emphasize here that the president will now interrupt this meeting and review the case with members of the council. It's not acceptable to let this go on like this. Even humans do not have enough respect for themselves and the council to come here and at least have material discussions on the subject. If the senators show up in that hall, they'll only have one exception. There's something on your conscience. And I have to say, too, just as it is that I find an enormous twin in what is held out in the discussion and that it is important to go over it. It is also important that each member of Congress reviews the situation with its members, at least acknowledging the minimal point that this is a future issue. there will be no further development during the council. [[The president calls.]] They don't even seem to have it figured out, but they're willing to stand firm in a chair and feel ashamed that we're going to stand here and try to work on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u110	A respectable president. This situation, which was unopposed at first, is becoming increasingly difficult and embarrassing and has become a disgrace to the council. Advertising. This morning's Environment Minister is not going to explain her position on the costs of the case during the treatment of the matter, of course, it is unprecedented. Listening to what you're talking about. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir claims earlier that a vote for a single primacy will cause us here in a complete blind spot, and he is responsible for a president who must reevaluate his decision that this is an acceptable case. It must be minimal when an announcement is made that the committee calls the matter back to the committee, makes the changes that have been foretold, and restores the matter with new support. This is the last treatment. It all tops to hear what's going on. paritaprevir The Guðlaug - god of Thor Þór Þórðarson, vice president of the Party of Independence, has not realized that it is later. The point and that we have just a few days to prevent the unscrupulous conditions set up here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u111	V.E.G. President. I'd like to direct questions to the President. Is the President going to ignore my request for a recession at a council meeting and a meeting with the council members? Second, I ask a president if he knows if there is any evidence of this adjustment proposal to make the decision soon into the council and whether it is today or ever in the near future. Since then, the hall has been called cheerfully that the smaller part is in the middle of a filing, as if it were revealing something and that we should be embarrassed. We're in breath, chief. President, because we have a preemptive work plan and we are using the small power we have to prevent the more part from going on in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u112	The president will announce a meeting with members of the council before a council meeting begins at 2 p.m. 13th The precise time will be submitted later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u113	Mr. President. I'm asking the President to discuss it at his meeting with members of Congress whether it's possible to give the highest power. The prime minister's space is on the agenda for this meeting in order to review how the adjustment is made to the greater part of the employment committee solves the conflict. It is very important that the discussion be included before continuing. Also, I would like to express my concern about the attitude expressed in the case of the Supreme Court of Independence Party earlier in the discussion of the program, where the head of the Independence Party seems to refer to the decision of a greater part of the industry to make a decision during the last term, not to include in the novelty category of activations in two areas which would require further inspection and that the responsibility should rest on the dramatic proposal and debate to proceed with the task management and legal process. [[The president calls.]] I refuse such a responsibility, asking the president to bring in a meeting with the chairman of the Independence Party and the former counsellors who handled this matter to review all of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u114	A respectable president. I thank the President that he intends to grant the request that a meeting be held with members of the council. I'm asking a respectable president to come prepared for a meeting because there's a chance in the situation and in the discussion as if it's been in the past few days. If you succeed in working through the forwards and outbacks of the individual councilmen of the greater part, the view that these matters need to be examined has been suggested. I ask a respectable president to do what is within his power to be useful in this meeting with the tribunals, that there will be no reduced version of the phrase but will really be tempted to look for a way to approach some reasonable conclusion in this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u115	A respectable president. Of course, it is quite remarkable that a minister of Iceland's government would view his personal stand as a secret and that several members of the council view their stand in public publicity as a secret thing to present at some unexpected point. True, it is possible to show understanding that the government's policy or aimlessness is something that people would like to sneak along and that they would not be publicized until the last minute and that most people will not notice. I think that it is absolutely unavoidable, after we have taken up a material discussion and the program is going forward as the previous vote concludes, that it has to be accepted again tomorrow to try to bring the case to a committee. It is obvious that there will be no success in the treatment unless you sit over it and try to work with it in the Committee Room rather than in the Senate Hall. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u116	A respectable president. We still protest in the memory of the schedule proposal, i.e. the proposal for an environmental minister's proposal for Congress. We don't think she's a senator. I must say, a respectable president, unfortunately, we may also object to what seemed to be an inaction in trying to solve the huge knot that has come up at the council. However, he has declared that he is going to have a meeting with members of the council today, and there I certainly hope that something will be proposed to resolve this dispute. One committee and a traveling overseer to this suggestion that we are protesting spoke late last night, where there was no other than to hear that he was upset and that by talking together, people could figure out a solution to all matters. I sincerely ask the president to listen to his platoon brother and to offer some excellent proposal to resolve the matter at a meeting with the council members. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u117	Mr. President. I'm glad the President is going to arrange a meeting with members of the council here before noon. It is also vital that something new come into play. You can't just take a break for a cup of coffee with a pillow and nothing new will come out of it. [[Up front.]] Those in charge and control of the sinuses must be prepared to put something new into it. A number of cases are waiting for payment, and only about three days left for this council. The President speaks of a work programme holding, so it's better for the management part to start shoving up the sleeves if he's going to get some things through here in this brief period of time. I'm just hoping that at this meeting, something that's likely to get discussed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u118	His words are that a decision has not been made to change a plan. The president wants men to witness in his words correctly in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u119	V.E.G. President. I think deeply about what has been said here, and I quote comments given at the highest level. A minister of the Environment in the News News reports that her attitude on the subject that has been presented here on the program is reflected in a vote. I understood the best. Not better than that, she would have made a change in the existing arrangement, and I must admit that I have become quite confused about where and how this situation is going. I'm going to give myself a chance to put some hope into the meeting as high as I can. The president has said that he intends to make a proclamation and is happy that in some way it should be tried to wind up this unbearable confusion, I allow myself to say, as it has come up and that all good works are being done at this meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u120	Mr. President. V.E.G. The president has said that the decision has not been made to disappear from the council. However, the highestv is being observed. To the President. V.E.G. The prime minister has taken away his troubles and declared that it will be a summer assembly. I ask: Is the President's case going to make it happen that it's downhill - like I'm going to let me say it - some prime minister in the town? Should it be the respect of the council? V.E.G. The environmental minister began his journey in this case by saying that at least two of the activations would be taken out of this adjustment. Now that she has been culled and humiliated, she is now only alone. Again, it's the highest. The prime minister who decides to do so. It's the least of the strangest things to say. It has been found that members of the Independence Party failed to realize that there had been a clear stand from two advisers that what is being done here was not in the spirit of the law. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to ask the highest. President: Did he know of these words that came from the plots when he gave up his controversial decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u121	In the past, the president has stated that he was responsible for the evidence. A senator refers to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u122	A respectable president. I just wanted to inform a respectable president of the Supreme Court. The prime minister has decided that it should be his summer council until July, I understand. He spoke very bluntly as if it were just arranged, it had just been decided. It is not to improve the image that is now a simple force. I notice it when I paint it. Senators of the greater part, especially now. 2.m. s.. So, that he always turns to power. Everything is justified by power. So is rationality. Councilmen's program is that they can keep it this way and challenge the memory of letting the matter be paid by voters, nanons, as if it were no problem. This shows that this is the case, not the evidence, not the fact, not the sense, not the responsibility, and not the trade, but the power. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u123	Mr. President. It's our slowly in the wild, but it's not ours at any rate during the council with this matter to continue. I was referring to the fact that during the spring and the spring of 2011, I recall that a discussion of two relatively simple pact proposals took a total of six weeks. We can't afford it at such times or even if there were three weeks in this matter. But let's not be talking about this any other than it is, Mr. President, this is an open discussion. The government situation is very focused and united in not being invited, the council, and the nation to use their rights in such matters. That message must start getting through, so I don't think there's anything going on except someone more stubborn to keep doing this. [[The president calls.]] We'll all have to find a way out of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u124	A respectable president. It has now been one week since I was given the order of the president to see if the matter on the program is arranged or not. I've been looking at it all this time. I've also heard in double terms, if not in three years, the president of the United States finds out from the President that he studied the opinion of two advisers who have reached the opposite conclusion with the President. Therefore, I miss that at the President's decision, he finds that the evidence seems more likely to fall in the direction that a professional assessment of these initiatives has been made, that he reacts. He will not react to the reasonings of the advisers, who are professionally presented with physical reasoning. He does not address the two opinions he claims to have studied. [[The president calls.]] I miss it, and I would like to hear evidence against the advice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u125	V.E.G. President. Everyone should realize that in my memory, we are in a hot mood. We really don't like the President's conference board. We brought a grammatical program that was put in the power of the greater part. I'm going to repeat them a review for members of Congress, and certainly not the highest. President, the more part assigned to the council, the less than 50% paid votes in the last election, than 60% more in the council. The power ratios in this room do not reflect the will of voters. In the smaller parts, we reflect the attitude of many, the greater part reflects the attitude of many, but there is a different way to be found, but it has been here for the last week to make peace in the matter of Congress. There is little more to it than a government issue, and we should be able to resolve this if all our views are taken into account.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u126	President. I regret that the president is not prepared to postpone this case and allow the other matters to be planned. I also regret that the chairman of the Parliaments has not yet been discussed with them as a summer council or not. I don't like work like this, and I find that the passage and the crystals of the Council are the highest of those words. The secretary of finance to a greater extent is unsurpassed at the National Assembly. It's an unscrupulous plan, Mr. President, and I'm surprised to learn that a president who is supposed to be the president of all members of the council is so unashamedly pressured here every day to do more than that. It's unpleasant, and I'll fight it whether it's called a detox or not. I don't care. I'll just admit, Mr President, until the President listens to my parts, I'm going to be in need of speech. They never listen to us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u127	Mr. President. This conversation that some have. The members of the greater part feel that it is so unnecessary and that the focus is primarily on extending the discussion here is actually very helpful, as it shows that the discussion is very effective. The members of the greater part are in no better trouble than those who fail to understand even the issues involved. This was clearly the intention to run a case through in force of greater power without being listened to professionals, without having been legally completed, the case is set up in great nervousness, and in the context of a dress interview that is completely unacceptable. Then, a debate under these points reflects that. The members of the greater part, who are most concerned with driving the case through in the power of more parts, are not sure where we are in the discussion. I think it's a very helpful discussion, very obvious that they don't even know what they're talking about. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u128	A respectable president. Often you get along with people you're very close to. I'm not gonna believe that, though. For example, the government's fear of decision has spread to the president, who says that this is not a case that the government is always talking about. Thus, at times we may think that we are in this discussion to fill up a hole that will demonstrate the inactivity of the government. I'd like to ask the highest. President: When will this summer council be decided? This week is now half and the next week is due to be left at the council, and although none of us here consider it to be left, I don't know exactly what to use for this, none of us are going to get to the council as polite as we know in at least two weeks' notice how our program will be conducted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u129	Mr. President. Each person sees that in the Assembly Hall, there is a lot of conflict and conflict. When you discuss a change in the motion, steel meets firm. Business committee. Yet, there is an opportunity for historical reconciliation, with an increased part of the Assembly Hall for the Supreme Conspiracy Act. Environment Minister. V.E.G. The minister of the environment, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, saw the importance of my saying, to make this peace at the assembly. He realized that the terms of reconciliation were important to the industry, to the environment, to the people in the country, and to the prospective members of Congress, even though they may be at least at the same time. Can the president direct the administrative body to this reconciliation arrangement and that we vote only on the Senate appendage? Environment Minister? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u130	In fact, a respectable president has taken me to the point of having to speak to the President's conference board by announcing that a meeting of the council groups is being announced. I'll have a chance to talk it over with a president when it happens, but it would be good to get the time on it. I think, though, in view of the highest. Environment Ministers and various other government officials would like to hide their position on this matter, and it would be better if it were to be decomposed and not return to the schedule so that they could only keep their stand on the matter permanently. A respectable president. We have noted that the greater part is not much of it. It is not just that he received less votes during his last election but that he was elected by the election in the last total election. So Bjarni Benediktsson, calling himself more part here, has the support of a third of the voters to both administrations, combined. [[The president calls.]] Since then, much of them have left them, so this greater part is not less than a quarter of voters at best. There is no greater part and no authority or authority.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u131	V.E.G. President. I reiterate a wish I made earlier today to the highest. The president took part that tomorrow there will be discussions and reports from the highest level. Prime Minister on the labour market situation. I think it's extremely important that we get the opportunity to talk about it because of the bad news of the situation. We have reached the fifth and sixth weeks of a strike in a hospital, and we know that an enormous number of patients are being bitten. It is most unacceptable that we do not have the opportunity to discuss it, and we will seek common solutions as to what the government can do, and the council will be able to support the members in this regard. As I would remember my first wish to the highest. Prime Minister will attend the discussion on a Framework Programme. The decision has now been made by the majority of the council that the program will continue until the evening, and I think it is extremely important to the highest level. Prime Minister is at the discussion. It was requested all day yesterday, and he never showed up so that I wish to the highest. The president informs us why the prime minister is not at the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u132	President. I'm glad to have a meeting with members of the council but, at the same time, agree by request. paritaprevir The son of Hele, the Guðbjartur of the Hannesson, that the matter may come to the prime minister. What I'm also very worried about is that there's a state of chaos in this country. It looks very bad that we're here for a case that's very clear that we're trying to rape through the council. Rather, we should resolve to allow a case from the highest point of view. Social Affairs Minister on the housing system that is still waiting to be submitted to the council. We're supposed to let it into the Council of 1st. and I challenge the president to pay it as soon as it comes from the government if it ever comes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u133	No matter the 4th mg. 10th par. Congress, for the duration of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. Is there a vote for this proposal made by the president? [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[Take it up: Yes, a vote.]] President hears both no and yes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u134	Yes, there's a vote for this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u135	A vote for the proposal is now being made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u136	A respectable president. We at the government stand are all morning trying to make peace, wishing we were discussed the big things in the community that are waiting. This is the response of the administrative body. It's driving in here another night with a case of such great controversy. This is the response of the administrative body to our invitations and our wishes in the management situation that we are now having a perennial and good conversation about the most basic workforce in the community, which is solving conflict in the labour market. This is the contribution of the government party, independence party and forwarding party. They are not interested in sharing in a workforce solution, none. It is best in this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u137	President. How boring it is that the reconciliation that the lesser part contributed to the change in the program has taken place! Of course, piranha has no objection to staying long after night in a conversation with the boy. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, but I'd like them to go to the top. The prime minister will be with us tonight, listening to talks on a frame plan and even speaking up and explaining how more of the fortresses are going to solve conflict.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u138	A respectable president. To the highest. The president will propose a lengthy conference on a case that is firmly described and raises questions as to whether a respectable president considers him to be the president of the entire council, because this is actually a way of giving the frescian to both wings and driving along with his eyes an extremely serious matter. I ask: Is this really the way of a united administrative body putting its head in the sand, each and one member of the greater part, in complete ignorance of the political situation and the severity of the discussion out here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u139	A respectable president. I'd like to stay until the night, discuss the job position. I would also like to have a late meeting, and even a night meeting about the government's plans for mackerel and fishing. I could say the same thing about many other matters that I would be willing to hold here for a night meeting, not to proclaim an extended assembly meeting and an evening meeting of matters that are completely incontrovertible and that are completely blocked here at the council and that all council work has been shut up, not because of the smaller parts, but because the majority of the council decided to ignore the less urgent warnings on this matter. The majority of the parts were off this cliff with both eyes open, with no braking marks on the edge thereafter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u140	Mr. President. I say like what? paritaprevir Róbert Marshall that I'd like to stay until tonight if we were discussing the big things that are urgent and serious and need to be on this schedule. But it is obvious that the greater part of the council is just going to put their heads under and push on with the freckles bitch, that's their way. It may not be surprising that when the workforce is not controlled with any agreement, they do not have anything to try to make peace. The end of the council must always be negotiated and negotiated, in life as well as at any given moment. paritaprevir As of yesterday, Ásmundur Friðriksson mentioned that he would have to negotiate the dishes with his wife many times. We may be in a very different place here, but it's always the same reality, you have to negotiate. It's not just: I'm in charge, I can and I want to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u141	V.E.G. President. I'd kind of like to ask for the highest. The President will be able to give the vote for a little time while we'll keep all the members of the council hall here and we'll have the opportunity to discuss materially and explain a framework plan. It has been observed repeatedly that there is a lack of knowledge in this regard. Similarly, there is no one who wants to settle the program. We don't want to talk for long, but I'm going again and again, asking the government to come here and express their views and to be reasoned, and especially at the highest level. Prime Minister, who always mixes with the media and then talks about the importance of discussing and reasoning matters that are beyond our reach. Prime Minister. If this can be done to keep us here until the night, the prime minister will find time in the day to be here with us, I won't make any comment. I ask him to be in the hall then, perhaps giving up when he will have the opportunity to stay here and have a word with us in the government, so that at least we will consider something further in the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u142	President. I think it's pointless to have a night meeting unless there's going to be a lot of results. The president of Congress with the presidents now. I would probably feel that the president has delayed a meeting now, held the conference, and then made a vote after the meeting, when we, members of Congress who are supposed to vote for it, know what comes out of it, and whether there is any hope for the discussion to end tonight. It is pointless to spend the evening meeting because if this knot is not solved, the conference at the Hall will continue as it is now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u143	A respectable president. It was predictable, as if you were expecting to stay in here into the night. But I would like to draw attention to the fact that a respectable president plans to extend the meeting when he is in desperate need. The members of the major body know the situation. It's been observed that some of them had a hard time. Even members of Congress do not realize that the matter is not back on the committee, this is a subsequent discussion of a synonym. Based on all the modifications made here... [[Material discussion.]] Honorable President, we're talking about a frame plan. We're on schedule, aren't we? [[Take it up: No, a vote.]] Yes, extending a conference on a frame plan. There must be a way to talk here about the program under President's meeting board, considering the case that causes all of this without any material discussion. [[Up front.]] Anyway, it's a perfect waste of time, as we all know in here. We should postpone this matter and discuss how we can persuade the council to do something intelligent in the days ahead, in the few days that remain. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u144	V.E.G. President. I believe that this is the president's reaction to suggesting that the part on the schedule was adjusted. I can't believe he's going to let his knees follow his abdomen and keep this matter on the schedule into the night. So I ask: Is requesting long meetings because the prime minister or even the highest? Is there a financial secretary who's going to give us a report on the job market? Is it a request for an extended meeting to address important subjects ready for discussion? What are some of the issues that are so urgent? Or is a modification proposal expected to be made on a document with logical support? If not, I can't support this proposal from the President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u145	V.E.G. President. We're taking a case here in a pretty strange order. I don't know any better than just before. The president said he was going to make a appointment to the council members. I understood that there was a chance of getting some plane landing or at least some conversation about how to continue the discussion here. It is absolutely untimely in my opinion to begin paying at this moment a vote on whether or not here should be an evening meeting. Of course, we must first have a meeting with members of the council, and then we can vote on whether there should be a late meeting at the conclusion of that meeting. That's why I'm totally against the fact that we're about to vote for this right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u146	The president would like to inform us that he made an announcement at a meeting with members of the council earlier this week that he would welcome an evening meeting on this day.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u147	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir declared earlier that the piratars could quite imagine spending the evening with a bang. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. I just want to make it clear for me that I'm not available to be at that party. However, I'd like to stay here long into the evening and therefore so far into the night that the sun's red windows of the World Hall, which every young senator can do, will be good to deal with. I'd like to stay a long time to cover, for example, the strike of public employees at the highest level. The secretary of finance does nothing to solve. I would like to be here to discuss the strikes that lie ahead of us at the highest level of common choice. The prime minister does nothing to resolve. I'm thinking that if we have to, we have to stay here night and day to discuss the real stuff, not the thing that's been called off, I say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u148	A respectable president. I'm willing to be at that party as it is. A senator was describing earlier to discuss the matter of discretion and their resolution. But I have to say just as it is that I don't want to support the fact that people are going to drive a meeting here on this matter of war. Then I'm going to make a claim to the highest. The prime minister will be present until the evening for this discussion, and at some point he will help us to see how a frame plan is a key to breaking the workforce.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u149	Is he going to the party?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u150	He has to go to his own party and explain why this is such a priority to the government and why this is the only contribution of the government in Iceland to the release of disputes in a labour market where a hundred thousand people are headed for a strike. [[The president calls.]] I do, but not the dance as president here, the President of the Independence Party and the President of the Future Party. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u151	Mr. President. Of course, under normal circumstances during this time of year, there would be nothing unusual about this evening meeting. But there may be serious doubts about the great purpose of moving toward such things now in the light of the circumstances in which we live. If there was an evening meeting to cover some of the 20-30 cases that are waiting here, save that crop in the house, it would be a pleasure, but it won't be if the president keeps to his schedule. If we were here with a late meeting to discuss this potentially serious position in a labour market that has worsened since yesterday and the natural government does less than nothing. The atmosphere from the labour market body is that the government is infested with human survival because it has suggested that it is willing to resolve the issue, but it will never be answered. So there is a public market spread that the government is in a hurry to get ahead. Then it's worth a night meeting. But there's nothing in the evening meeting with the same situation here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u152	A respectable president. Of course, because of the premiums of government in the past in which they made comments on the matter in a material way, we can understand that discussing matters in a material way is more sensitive to those in authority, for it is very difficult for those in authority to discuss the matter. [[Up front.]] But they need to be content, for when it comes to giving the vote, the material discussion of the proposal, no matter how bad it may be, no matter how much it may be to the governor's shame. Since this part of the program cannot be continued tomorrow and any next few days, it is possible to understand a certain understanding if the president considers it necessary to continue the discussion until the evening. When individual ministers of the government and members of Congress have declared that their position on the matter is a secret, then, of course, it is understandable that they want their talks to be taken under cover of night. But I don't think it'll be anything to simplify the progress of the case. I think it would be most fortunate to simply decide at a meeting of the council officials to make a suggestion. paritaprevir The Guðlaugur of Thor Þór Þórðarson's son and Ásmundur, son of Friðriksson, and bring the matter to the committee and start taking care of more than that. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u153	A respectable president. It's a special opportunity now to catch your ears. The members of the major body are at the Senate Hall for votes. I'd like to ask the greater part: Is there a senator in the greater part who realizes that this is no longer working? Is there any senator who can only lie his eyes and see that the situation no longer works, that doesn't work anymore? Is there anyone who realizes that each senator of the greater part can change the situation here? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] The Declaration of Government Orders states: The government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have characterized Icelandic politics and discussions in society for some time. Is there any surprise that this government and its individual ministers should be deemed completely out of contact with the general public when the situation is what it is today? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u154	Mr. President. I was surprised when the president called a vote, and when I arrived here at the Senate Hall and learned that this was the time to vote for a long meeting before a meeting with members of the council was held. So may we understand this, so that the president assumes that the meeting with members of the council, which is to be held at this point, will not bring any results? Is it the message the chairman of Congress is taking to president that it is clear that there will be no positive conclusion there, and it needs to be fixed? Generals to push the yes-thank while they're in the house? That's why these things need to be done now? I don't think it's a good message, and I'd like to ask a president to revise that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u155	The president does not announce a meeting with members of the council in any sense lacking purpose. The president does so, confident that the conversation will bring us something back. Earlier, the president had explained that he had declared it at a meeting with members of the council earlier this week that his plan was to make a suggestion for tonight's evening meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u156	A respectable president. Not everyone seems to be down. The members of this fine hall understand the subject, but the subject is the subject of the discussion, in this case an extension of a meeting for a certain matter. I was wondering if everybody was. Senators could see the issue, but we must not mention it on the name because it was a material discussion. But I would like to propose, first of all, that there will be a evening meeting I'm in if that happens, and it will, of course, that we will discuss what may be the most important thing at the General Assembly now and that is the President's conference board. Perhaps it should be a full part of the program where the members of Congress would have 20 to 30 minutes to discuss a meeting of presidents at once, with answers and all. I think there's good reason for that. It's allowed by the Trinity, and who knows, maybe someday, a constitution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u157	Mr. President. There's been a persistent inquiry about the highest level. Then the prime minister will be at the discussion first, to make a longer meeting. It has also been asked whether he intends today, and for this reason there may be an extension of a meeting, a report on the job market that is extremely serious, as everyone knows. V.E.G. The President has given us no answers, but I would like to draw attention to the fact that in the Senate group, we are so lucky to be with an assistant of the highest degree. Prime Minister, w. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason. That would be fine, if the President isn't in better contact with the highest. The prime minister, but he does not know his intentions, that the assistant, one of the many, will go over with us to see if he is expecting to be the highest. The prime minister is writing such a report or whether he could fulfill his duties as a senator and be here at a council meeting today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u158	A respectable president. I see no reason to meet here tonight on this matter. Now it's like we've been dying for the best. To explain what we really are discussing. Is that a major part of the employment committee? Or it's the highest understanding. Environment Minister on the case, who wants to drag Lake Hags out, but this proposal hasn't formally appeared? Are we discussing it? Or are we dealing with an original Parliamentary arrangement made by a former environmental minister? It's all very vague, but it doesn't seem to matter because it's just punching the case through, it's going to keep punching some of the continuum transfunctioners as if someone had a dog. In contrast with what a project management of a Framework Programme says, members of the Parliament think that they should put on the table in front of us. This needs to be explained. We've been asking for the highest power. The president explained this, but he hasn't.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u159	A respectable president. Following the ridicule events that occurred here in the past. paritaprevir The Guðla Viðr Þórðarson, vice president of the Independence Party, came up here and showed that he did not even know the nature of the discussion, where we were in it, and did not realize that this is a future issue. I thought that the administrative part wouldn't set up for an evening meeting to further advance on this irresponsible journey that he has started. [[Up front.]] From what? Friðriksson Last night, there is a determined will to make peace. A member of a large part of the employment committee says he wants cooperation and solidarity. Is it not proper to take them in, settle the matter, point it back to the professional committee, so that we can get a discussion at the Assembly Hall a proposal that is open to the council, acceptable, and we know what material? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u160	A respectable president. As the discussion continues, the problem has been discovered. paritaprevir Not even Gulsome Þórðarson knew what the situation was at the council. Hv. paritaprevir Ásmundur Friðriksson has informed us that he has not read basic opinions from the Environment and Resource Ministry on the legal status of this case. Hv. paritaprevir So Páll Jóhann Pálsson recognized that the Sea of Hagah had been brought between classes during his last term. I could go on and on and on and on about the facts of this matter, not just one member, not two, not three, but a lot more. A respectable president. This tells us that in this final talk, we need to stop her, not punch her, as humans are doing here in perfect blindness. This also tells me that this government is a bull. [[The president calls.]] He's going to pass this case, no matter what he's been able to do for President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u161	A respectable president. It's ridiculous to do this. It's also true that you can't speak here in the councilroom.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u162	The President has done his best to restrain members of the council who are here in front of us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u163	Thank you. It's totally ridiculous to do this as you suggested. The matter is upset, and it's totally clear that another night of this sort of discussion that we've been in has not been able to solve the matter. I'm disappointed that this vote is being paid by a respectable president and that we need to hold a council meeting in her shadow. Here the president continues to take his position with the administrative part, with the upper hand and the freckles, and there's a lot of delirium.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u164	A respectable president. Under normal circumstances I would vote with this, I had the intention of doing it but then it turns out to a man that it's clear that they're gonna punch it through, no matter what, so this meeting could end in the morning. Well, tomorrow I'm gonna have to discuss some sort of permafrost thing with you. I'm going to vote against this, even though I've started saying yes. But I shall be glad to be here at least to midnight before I begin to complain of the nonsense that this conference board has become.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u165	Mr. President. I vote against a proposal to hold this evening meeting. I don't see the point, given the circumstances up here. It's become clear that more than a part of the employment committee, or the steel and coal alliance that I'm going to allow myself to call these old-fashioned politicians who are on the job committee, they're holding us hostage. It's just that way. If this doesn't change, we'll be at a council this summer and there won't be any need for a night meeting. We can only spend the summers here together, Congress, at the command of this steel and coal alliance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u166	V.E.G. President. I asked you a few questions about the structure of the meeting and why you asked for a longer meeting. The President didn't respect my answer, and I'm sorry. These were simple questions, but perhaps the answers were too complicated, to the top. The government would take some responsibility for the government of the country and even tell us what it meant by the entire labour market. In view of the complete lack of control, aimlessness, and no one seems to know what to do in this administrative part, I can't support our intention to stay here after the normal end of a meeting at eight o'clock. I say no to this President's suggestion, I'm sorry that he hasn't answered my simple questions, and I'm sorry that the more part is doing this to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u167	Although the president did not originally intend to get involved in this discussion when it comes to votes, the president will not be able to escape this provocation in order to answer and grieve if any. A senator feels this way so that the president wanted to avoid answering legitimate questions. Then he wants to try to do it. As everyone has observed, the president has been extremely reluctant to have evening meetings and have tried any other options earlier, believes that it is possible to be successful through conversation, and has therefore always responded to the request for congregation meetings or to bring men together. However, as the situation exists today, Presidential assessment is that it has not worked, badly, nor is it the only thing to do in this situation when a very large number of people are on the rosary, debate takes a long time, as everyone has. Councilmen know, but to make an evening meeting. There is no kindly president, as everyone knows, but under these circumstances the president considers it inevitable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u168	V.E.G. President. I vote against having a night meeting. The thing is, as I think we all in here know, come into a deep knot, and unfortunately, we are not taking steps to solve it. I regret to prove my reputation to be the highest speech. A president before, because I really felt like she was a total surrender to the case, i.e. starting with an evening meeting and having a meeting with the council members. He has, in my opinion, given the conclusion of that meeting, and that is not a good suggestion for the discussion here. That's why I can't help but vote against this night meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u169	Mr. President. What's going on here on this day is that the government is afraid to discuss matters most hot on the nation. V.E.G. The prime minister is afraid to discuss how he has failed as prime minister when it comes to his obligation to work on collective agreements. V.E.G. Secretary of finance is afraid to come here and discuss how he plays a role, with complete indifference from the civil strife of employees, in the fact that there are strikes, hospitals are in an upset state, and laboratorys are closed. This is what we want to talk about here. I'm willing to stay here all night to discuss this, Mr. President, and with confidence that the highest. I'm going to say yes to this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u170	A respectable president. I object to this decision. I admit that I often enjoy evening meetings at the General Assembly, often just fun, but I object to the subject scheduled. [[Foreground on, come on.]] That's why I can't agree to this evening meeting. There's an emergency in the community. There are a lot of serious things going on in a job market. There is good reason for all of us here to set aside all issues and to focus on what we see. That's what we've been trying to do here, and now by protesting this length of the council meeting. There is, though, something exciting in the program, and I look forward to hearing talks at the right time. þm. Þórunn, the daughter of Eglish, who will be below, and why. þm. The Höskuldur of the son of Thorhall, chairman of the Environment Committee, to the proposed proposal. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u171	A respectable president. Thank you very much. This time a president wishes to conduct this meeting with members of the council. [[Up front.]] I wish for the highest. The president gave careful consideration to members of the council how to get out of this position, to set aside the interest of the Independence Party in the matter, and to see how we can properly complete this council, and to take into account the serious issues that concern the people of the country. This cannot be done by repeatedly putting your fist in the air with threats of evening meetings, where no board members share in the discussion. There is no peace, and I hope to the highest. The president will attend this meeting with the council presidents considering the offer of reconciliation that we have made here repeatedly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u172	A respectable president. I'm trying to figure out the situation here, how long we should be in here tonight. A majority of the council determined that we would handle this case at a night meeting, the box. Instead of discussing the situation at work, people are so eager that this matter goes through here that it is decided to set aside an evening meeting against our present will. But our opposition to a night meeting is that the absence of a minister who is involved has been crying out. So, as I did here earlier today, I would like to ask that the prime minister be brought here and tell us how this case will solve a workforce. I don't think there's anything we can do about this. They need to explain to us the importance of driving forward with the bullying we have seen here. If there's anything like that in the air, then the Minister will be here and we'll find out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u173	V.E.G. President. We've been happy to talk about it to the highest. A president of what is being done at the council. Now, the decision was made that the frame would be on schedule today, but it was also made this morning. The minister of education and culture had come to the country, and it's very important to have an opportunity to have a word with him about things that are going on right now. The same time we're sitting here at the council, it's the highest. Minister for the province, proclaims unity in schools, requests to save matters about the University of Music in Reykjavík. There are now active groups who are instructed to do certain things, all outside of the council, all without the permission of a full-scale educational committee, without the fact that it is in accordance with a white book at the highest level. Minister has submitted. There is as much contempt for the council as there is to show. If it's short of the candidates and other members of the council hall, and they're going to sit under this silent and silent, I've misunderstood something. [[The president calls.]] I trust we'll have an opportunity to discuss this before we say hello to the spring council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u174	V.E.G. President. Sadly, it seems that we will continue to discuss a frame plan and the bad changes made by the greater part. I'm sorry to drive that case up until tonight. I still urge that these unfortunate laws be retracted and tried to settle matters. But what I wanted to do is exactly what my partner, right? paritaprevir Guðinn Hannesson. I noticed this morning that the Minister of Education has returned to the council. He's been away for two weeks. I have requested to have special discussions with him about the unity of high school as soon as possible, discussing that he sent his officials to the country under cover of night, and that the school authorities really threaten where plans are not introduced, but it is announced that the Ministry has decided to unite various schools and that united schools should take up the work in the autumn. A respectable president. For example, there are ideas of uniting the High School of High School at Isafa National University of the West in the South Pacific. [[The president calls.]] There are ideas of unity between Off-side Eyjafjördur and Senators, the High School of Húsavík, and the Lavas, etc. [[The president calls.]] This is a dark task that I believe the Minister is not authorized to do without the presence of the Generals. [[The president calls.]] I demand that the Minister of Education be as soon as possible here to answer questions about this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u175	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller here. Of course, it is shocking that while people are being held here in discussions about a proposal that is not perfunctory, the nature of its contents is not clear, and it is not clear in the manner in which government leaders intend to follow, the secretary of education in the country is working substantiate in high schools and wide across the country. He walks out without any democratic authority. There is no debate at the conference on ideas of uniting schools wide and wide in the country, but this reduces the opportunities of people in the scattered settlements to pursue higher education. This is reflected in the vandalism he has already done by stopping paying for people over 25 years of age in high school literature. Of course, there are things that we should be discussing here in addition to the job market position and other important matters that are waiting in the community, not that ridiculous proposal that doesn't resist the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u176	President. I'm sorry to hear that the assembly meetings had failed to be successful, so we continue to discuss this proposal. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller, my coven, about the word for this change, this is an unfortunate proposition, because it would take no or no time to accept the original proposal of an environmental minister, and it would probably be quite a good deal for her here at the council, but while lying down in a strike and no one would do anything about it. Then I join the members of my group that have spoken here. It's natural to ask the highest. The minister who conducts education in the country what he thinks, not just in high school, but also in the music schools of the country where he is going to destroy like the high school system. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u177	Mr. President. In the end of the council, I think it is proper to discuss democracy over the heads, how to approach democracy these days, when we deal with big, serious issues, such as, framework and big, serious cases, waiting for release, like the mackerel bill and the fishing fees. All of this is a debate over national resources as well as those in the national administrations at each time can't overemphasize and decide how these things are taken care of. Everyone must be taken into account, including those representing the democracy at the council and who are in smaller parts each time. This must be done if a person is to reach a conclusion that is long - term. Don't want things to happen, so every four years, they rip up the roots and start from scratch. You must see that there is a demand in society for working with people, listening to people's voices, and taking them into account, and not to be opposed to the public and democracy in the country with their fists up and their heads under their hands, they may not be right at this, but that people do not take their heads and walk along in serious matters like a frame plan, where they're breaking legal processes, and in cases like mackerel, where we can't accept that we're giving them resources to a very few people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u178	A respectable president. V.E.G. The secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, wrote an article in the Morning newspaper and then declared support to the concept that has been discussed in the Constitutional Committee that we are meeting for the change of the constitution to be submitted to the people in a national law in the next year and that they will be subject to national property of resources, a constitution in the Constitution of national law, the environment, and the advancement of sovereignty. I'm glad to hear it. The minister of finance and the chairman of the Independence Party speak in this way. It has been our hobby in the United States to continue with the Constitution changes on the basis of a board of administration. During a recent meeting of the United Nations, a special agreement was made to be made to meet for the next year's recovery of these factors. It is also interesting that the Manufacturers have clearly spoken of the need for a national national holding on common resources in discussions about sea transport. I'd like to, though, beat a little bit of ninny in this regard. This needs to be a real national property principle. This should not be a general declaration of no significance, and the law must create a new form of possession, forbidding that such property is sold or left permanently and that payment will always come upon its use. That's the least we can do. Then I would like to add what we have stressed in the United Nations that we also use the historic opportunity that we now have to make permanent changes in the Senate work and to ensure a third of the members of the Parliament the right to refer matters to national regulations and to change them to the tradition of my defense at the General Assembly, in this speech chair here. We need to make other ways to protect the smaller part from the violence of the greater part, and there are better ways to change it, like changes in the constitution. [[The president calls.]] I hope we can get together across groups of progressive changes in this way, and we are not invited to the session. It is urgent to move immediately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u179	A respectable president. First, I would like to express my joy with a perfunctory speech. paritaprevir Páll the son of Árnason on important matters. He was reviewing the ideas as the highest. Minister Bjarni son of Benediktsson has spoken, and if we discuss these matters in those terms, we will see better times. I'm not going to go over it materially. A senator said but would like to draw attention to the fact that this was a material and upbuilding conversation. What I was going to discuss is a matter of great concern to me. It is simply that we set out the possibility that humans can use their special savings and go into the special setting to pay off the loans. We have an inherited housing system that encourages people to owe, and we may discuss it afterwards, but this arrangement will help people pay off their debts, pay off their capitals. I have felt that there was too little discussion about this possibility, as well as the possibility for people who have an apartment to go to their housing savings and make good use of that way, a tremendous, practical way to buy and pay off their loans. So it is incredibly disappointing to see some banking agencies fail in this process. They abuse it by making use of these payments for interest. It's completely annoying. [[For example, isn't it just an apartment loan fund?]] It's ironic that it's the bank, the camp loan fund, and I've heard about the Lands Bank, which makes it that way, uses it to pay off interest and compensation. To me, prices are growing. And this is used to fix the head seat. It's completely annoying, and I'm encouraging those people who are coming to get it done right away.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u180	V.E.G. President. I'm going to discuss matters Western aid, but I just want to pick up the thread from the bottom of my head. paritaprevir Godly Þórðarson and his comment that it is most intolerable to see the financial practices of the institutions that make good use of the property route, and to help individuals who have insurance mortgages to reduce their debt, they will be able to take this on interest rather than a head position. How important it is that financial institutions are pressured into handling matters as the law expects them to go into the bank of the loans! I'm done with half of my time, but what I wanted to talk to you about is that I went to the Federalist Help of the West of the West. There was also the National Organization for Development, and this included discussing matters of the disabled in a Western country. The discussion was largely short - term, but it was found that there is no such thing in the Western world. They were closed at the beginning of 2013 or in the middle of 2013, depending on the organisation. It was said that when institutions are closed, new resources should replace them, but they have not. It is important that those in need of the ministry have some opportunity to meet their peers and deal with them in social dealings. This is important to all of us. I just wanted to mention this because there is now a committee within the Ministry of Health evaluating the application to set up a matter for disabled people from a state to a community, and it's important that the conclusion comes as soon as possible to find out what services to be performed here and there on the land of the disabled. [[The president calls.]] It is important that all can maintain their own part of that agreement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u181	V.E.G. President. I have come up with this program, about the activities of the council, and I have discussed our major objective of improving the standard of living and the use of economics in this context. The discussions that have taken the largest part of the Senate work and the recent program are about to some extent about the quality of life, the protection, the use and practical means of resources so that we can improve the quality of living here for the future. I'm not going to discuss it in particular with this team, but I hope it will be done under that schedule later today. When a case is at the General Parliament, as the debate over the frame plan has been, and at the same time, the labour market debates are as if we are allowing ourselves to talk everything down together with the tasks that are certainly not without a problem. It'll be negative and up to that rhythm, and it's just not appropriate to use positive statistics, statistics that indicate that things are going well in Iceland, and that it's not just a good place to live, it's all a basis for improving the quality of living. So I'm still going to allow myself to refer to the wealth of Icelanders, then Stefán Ólafsson, professor of the University of Iceland, bears a title. It refers to two international reports, one from the Swiss bank Credit Suisse, and the other from the World Bank. It does not claim that everything is here in blossom, but it does indeed make our guest's eye very clear that we live just as well as a rich nation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u182	A respectable president. Yes, we're a rich people, but we're in a very poor way. That's the problem, and that's why everything here is on fire in our society and at work market disputes. What else do we see in the news than that we have two weeks before this is one of the biggest strikes we've ever seen? Men cannot be in denial of it and hide behind discussion of a frame plan that is, in my opinion, some of the crazyst things we could do at the council at this point. This is what the administrative body has decided to do; these are the priorities that the administrative body has decided to be. I came here because I wanted to have a place to say. Egilsdóttir I'm told that I am now at a council meeting. It doesn't change everything, it can answer me here later. There are other matters waiting for us at this council. We're talking about the housing issues, and we're also talking about a transport plan. As far as I'm concerned, it's been taken into the government for two months, and I understand it's now trapped by the Senate team of candidates. Where's the transport plan? She hasn't joined this council for the rest of the term. They're just out of work, aren't they? Is this government useless in all things? It is not even possible to have a transport strategy. You can't go to legal things that are intended for humans. It's been two years since this ideal period. What is this government doing? What is this greater part of the government doing? He returns nothing, he does not produce anything, nor does he have the means to produce a transport plan. Could it be because of what we see in a government budget that people have no money to build up in the transport sector? [[The president calls.]] It doesn't work like this anymore. This government must begin to deliver some of what is spoken of, even though it is only a legal function.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u183	V.E.G. President. The person standing here has been absent from the Hall for a few days but has tried to monitor what is best happening here and the main news of the council is that there are no new news here. The current smaller things have crossed over to deal with developments that need to be resolved, and they use advanced methods to prevent the progress of this matter. That's why it's ironic to again hear about an improved debate that came up here because it was just what you would have wanted to ask about how this case has been growing. The subject might also be mentioned in the form of less of the problems that many have experienced and received a vote but are not part of. There's a word for people who use such hostage - taking politics, there's a word for it for people who talk about their minds. It's called Icelandic charlatans. That is why it would be right for humans to abandon their charlatanry - and here people are calling in a complaint over the prominent ones this morning. [[Up front.]] That is well said, but it might be wise for a person to work together and deal with the progress we have here. There's enough left, we've got plenty of time, we don't save one day, not one night, not one night to get the work that this government's been doing, and we're going to stand for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u184	A respectable president. I read about it in the news at the highest. I think it's time for a financial minister to fix the Senate, a few things to do, and that's interesting to me. I felt that he was the first person to suggest this in view of the discussion, but I would like to note that two cases have been given at a council, which aimed to get someone bound during the seminary, and many times we have, including. The one standing here is discussing these matters at the Hall of Congress. When we talk to the directors about the situation, they tend to refer to the Constitution. There's a paper that doesn't mean much. There are plenty of cases in the Constitution that the government does not provide, and there are other cases that the government is going to submit or have proposed that are not in the Constitution. It is not a good witness to what we will discuss at the council. What I would like to repeat, I spoke of it a month ago, is to call for government officials to sit down with the government stand and tell the issue before the council during the past month. In the bright future, we can say in advance how long we want to talk, what subjects matter that way, and what cases could really go through without our having anything to say about them. This is definitely true for all categories, but it's not even an experiment. We certainly have to try to change the council, but I don't necessarily see it happening. What you can do is sit down, talk to each other, and enjoy upbuilding relationships. [[The president calls.]] There are the governors who must be ready for it, and I call for them to sit down with us and tell us what lies ahead.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u185	Mr. President. So you're still keeping on poetic terms, says in an old hand, an old proverb: When I needed most of the money, Most of them were nowhere. I've been wondering if this applies to the government of Iceland. Maybe she's nowhere? Where's the government? Does she still exist? Is it a personal government? So it's the government. Will the Prime Ministers of Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, tell us that there is a perfect unity in the government on the matter of housing and then proclaim a council for the rest of the summer? Is it the government secretary of finance who publishes his own version of the Senate, i.e. that the council should take a break when he has submitted his bills and then meet again to care for them? Is it the government of a social minister who tells us that it will bring forth its own housing bills, no matter what happens to them in the government? Is it perhaps the government of the Industrial Minister with his natural pass, or is it the government of a sea leader with the code bill that never appeared? The reality is that we live in an exceptionally corrupt government, apparently, out of control with the work it is supposed to be doing. The labour market has a serious situation, and it tells a man from there yesterday after he got out of the main organization's discussion that the government was simply trying to figure out what it was they had to get on with the case. And why was that? Yes, because the government says: "We are ready to contribute, paying the way for a reasonable bargain with various conditions, but when it comes to what the government could do, there are no answers. The situation of the already worse strike day - to - day situation, with devastating consequences for example, some of the agricultural sectors, not to mention conditions in the health system, including hospitals. [[The president calls.]] And the government is nowhere.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u186	V.E.G. President. My partner's at a sledgehammer. It is heading toward the most brutal conflict in a working market in memory. They can have enormous consequences for us in this country. I have repeatedly encouraged the government to have much more consultation with the General Assembly, the countryside, the employment life, the employee organisations, and many more members and societies on long-term goals and other necessary improvements. Because I am a gullible person, I will soon tire of speaking them out, and therefore I believe that it is still possible to get this government to hold matters in the spirit of its beautiful promises. There she says she is going to activate the people's cohesive power. It aims to counteract conflict and suspicion, to eliminate political uncertainty, and, above all, to work with the labour market partners on the development of work markets and future development. How has this worked? Is there less divisive, uncertainty, and distrust in Icelandic society than when the government began two years ago?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u187	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u188	Is the building up and the making of peace? Far from it! Pride and freckles, that evil couple has had no better times than today, and they have produced harmful offspring, high economic care, and related injustices in the division of national cake. If not now, when can the lowest wage be raised? The seaside road is making a lot of money. Tourism has become the largest profession in currency. We hear profits from banks with so many zeros that you have to pinch your arm to believe the result. Shopping yields billions of profits, and government funds are suspended. V.E.G. President. It's halftime in the season. The government's been playing terrible in the first half. She should now reflect on how she said in her policy declaration that she was going to do this. [[The president calls.]] There may be little hope, then, that she will not be judged in history as the republic of which the European public was most beautiful to be rid of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u189	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The tribe of forward, Willum Þór Thor Þórsson, wants to try to look at what is happening here and be one of the few, I think, which it does in the light of the situation. This was a review of the fact that the situation is better for those who should be able to improve the interests of the public worker. This place is a mess. The political part cannot subside its responsibility to solve the big business. As I've said before, the council can create the circumstances that are very important when it comes to making the choice. That's not what he's doing. The chairman of the BHM Convention Committee says that everything is fixed, that there is just no discussion, and that the state refuses to bring anything to the table. V.E.G. Secretary of finance has confirmed that he considers everything irresponsible that he or his government does not suggest. Anything else is impossible. We get reports of the Common Union saying that SA is a limited reality link that intensified the knot in the bullies dispute. SA has used the political bitch to study with his own members and to exploit them for propaganda. A respectable president. The Minister of Education is mainly abroad, although I understand that he has arrived in the country now. He rides around the provinces or his people, making experiments in educational vandalism. Based on this, today's graffiti has not been fully elucidated, and the process of transportation has not been established. I think it's time for this government to return the keys. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u190	V.E.G. President. Earlier in this discussion on the activities of the council. paritaprevir It's Sæmundsson's question. He said that he could not have been here in the last few days, but he had observed what was being discussed here and then emphasized that he needed a better discussion tradition at the council. V.E.G. President. I thought it was a speech. A senator shows that he had not listened very carefully to what we were saying here because we were calling for it, and have been calling for it, a improved debate, i.e. that the issues discussed here are ready and in a place where we can discuss them so that they can be of some help. I was just going to take this opportunity to review a few points at the moment. Sæmundsson It's why I'm glad to see him walk into the hall. You see, it is the case with growth that is taking place at a later time. about the change options of the frame and the highest. Environment Minister has proclaimed a change in this matter. She hasn't been in here, though. That is why we have called for evidence, the fact that the matter lies in the way of some intelligent discussion. But it's been a disaster. Unfortunately, I have to say, there has been a lack of trouble here. The members of the government were involved in what we are discussing. [[The president calls.]] So finally, I want to commend myself. paritaprevir Páll Jóhann Pálsson's son Paul, though I disagree with him, for he has sat here and shared in the discussion. You can see that by participating in the conversation, we improve the tradition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u191	V.E.G. President. I decided to take advantage of the space a few people had. The members of Parliament decided not to take their place in the discussion, and they took advantage of this opportunity to correct the situation. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, in which she spoke earlier that the transport program was trapped in the Congress of the Agency Party - had heard it, okay. [[Up front.]] I just wanted to give the information that it was April 25th. was a transport plan made out of the Congress team, and then it must come or I hope it will be submitted here at the council so that we can see what it is. I hope we can then start talking about her. I just wanted to share this information.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u192	A respectable president. It's getting exciting. I appreciate that information. I heard that she was now trapped in the House of forwarders, but now she's clearly trapped somewhere else. Then there's one place to go, and that's the House of Independence. I wondered, " What have I done?'We have not yet seen this transport program. Most likely there is nothing in it, that is the only explanation I can find in this, that it revealed that there is no special vision of the short and long - term transport and therefore did not trust to solve the transport program. So I corrected myself here, obviously trapped in the Independence Party, which is the Minister's own Party, so I think it would be worth the trip if men came here and realized what happened. The Minister's legal purpose is to provide us with a transport plan. Transporting plans are extremely important. What it contains has an important and meaningful effect on the quality of life that people around the country and what is being carried out in it. That is why it is important that we begin to discern the ways in which people are going to work with it. It will also be helpful to remember that in the financial program that has been under consideration, it is not to see that there will be any intelligence in transport in the coming years. That is likely what humans are shy about showing blackness in a new transport program. I must be calling because we start getting some answers to this. Again, I'm gonna take this opportunity here to encourage you. legislators to see themselves, stop struggling with the box, and further take over our reconciliation in the government's opposition to face difficult issues that concern the workforce. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u193	President. It's not often that you don't have to wake up before the clock. 8 in the morning to reach this point. I'm gonna get a chance today, and I'm gonna take advantage of it. I found the news to be remarkable. paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir moved here and she's going to lay them off. They are concerned with the work of the council because it says that April 25, of April, has provided a transport program with its body of members. Now it's May 20th, with a plan of work, five days left for the council, and this transport program has not yet arrived. This describes the project and everything at the council, and then you must ask: "Is my sister mentioned right? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, that the transport program is stuck in the Independence Party? Maybe there's nothing in it, so they don't want to show it. That may be one reason. I also want to put out a little of words. paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, Sæmund, who claims to have observed what has happened here during the past few days, although he could not have been there. He says that we in the smaller part have given way to developments that need to continue. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We haven't done that at all. On the other hand, we have in direct contact with the unfortunate arrangement that there are four unsupervised benefits under law. [[The president calls.]] That's where we'll be and we'll stay.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u194	A respectable president. There's something special up there right now. There are few people in the hall, no council members are here, members of the House are meeting, and we still have this big issue on the program. Somehow, no one knows what he's going to do about it, least of all the government groups. I just wanted to suggest that we stop at this meeting until they knew what they wanted. There is a fact that governments have not been able to agree on how they are going to land this case, and at the same time, other ministers are called upon to take advantage of the opportunity and act and proclaim tremendous changes in the national educational policy past by the Allied Council in the shelter of the circus taking place here. This is not going to work, so I call it a recess at this meeting, and then I take care of calling the Ministers in here, and especially the Minister of Education to tell us what he is doing under the protection that men are keeping us here in the discussion of the box. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u195	A respectable president. This unfortunate act has become such a troublemaker that no one wants to hold her in a church hall. We don't have a representative of the board of directors in the audience, they're not in the hall to push the case forward. They're trying to find ways, and members of the House of Governments are trying to make a good contribution to a meeting of the council groups to find a way out of this dilemma. It is obvious that this matter is now to be taken away from the program and continued with other matters on the program, preventing this setting from being developed so that we have the national Education Minister, who is on the move to a wide range of advanced educations without having to discuss it at the General Assembly and without having it sit around for answers in the shelter that the council is occupied with discussing the wonderful things that are being treated here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u196	A respectable president. This is better known than it should be said that conditions in a house market are extremely serious. Young people experience that they can't get away from home, that they can't have their first apartment, that they can't make out payment, and that it's not as if the rent market is a real option for people, because renting a small apartment is often double as paying off a mortgage for the same size of an apartment. How difficult, then, is the situation! Added to this, increased attendance at the tenures of tourist living has also reduced the availability of apartments to general rents, thus making this problem even more difficult to resolve. We in the United States have called for the beginning of this terms to take action to cope with this serious problem. We proposed a Senate resolution in the fall of 2013, which was approved here just a year ago with an encouragement to the government on a broad range of measures, but it has become tragically unconcerned on the basis of the proposal and not one matter of Congress brought in, which is actually an application of the suggestions found there. A respectable president. The situation has gone down, growth reform has fallen into value in the history of this government, and now it is a third of what was already best in the past government. How important it is to increase housing support! Also, there is no increase in rents that need to be done. For a long time, there have been proposals for a whole system of housing benefits equal to those renting and those having, but not in the past of the present government. In government penalties, tenants were completely left behind, as well as home havens. So a fourth of the people with prices were left behind and set below those who live in their own homes. Still, there is no need for action for those groups that have been repeatedly promised. Also, nothing has been seen to help correct the urgent need for social housing. We have repeatedly provided proposals to reimburse individuals in one apartment to be deducted, made free of taxes to increase the supply of rents. There are a number of people who shy away from renting out or are renting to tourists today who might prefer to rent public rent if they receive this invitation from the government. Hopefully, this would have an immediate effect to increase the number of apartments on the market. We have also suggested that new areas of the state be ruined to pay for my rented services, and that rural society will be made easier to increase the number of social apartments, both by changing the terms of the debt of your partner so that debts due to shopping are not considered to be a general debt and to allow the government to pay directly to subsidize rural communities to buildings or to purchase social housing without a requirement to be borrowed from apartment loans such as this day's pay, because large rural companies such as Reykjavík's can get a better market than afforded at the expense of apartment loans and no particular reason why they'll be borrowed from the money they'll save money they'll pay money. It is far more practical for all to simply borrow and get subsidies for that interest directly. We have also repeatedly discussed changes in construction regulations so that less expensive housing can be built, and lastly, the executive of the industry took it into account in an article in the newspaper of News. At the Continental Meeting, we then made some new suggestions to meet the problem of the first apartment buyers. The system of additional loans has to be developed by government support to enable young people to buy their first apartment and ensure that they have paid less money than others. There is a need to develop a new system of linked housing bills that provide tax discounts for the first purchases and that are not only for those in the labour market but also for students. A respectable president. [[The president calls.]] It is urgent to see the government's actions on all these matters, so it is very urgent that the government is making a clear vision of how all these factors work. There are detailed suggestions. Operation is required.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u197	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir PállÁrnason) What will be considered in the next article? I would like to use my time to explain the ideas I've been working on in the Ministry regarding the changes in the future housing structure in this country and to remind me of only what the government has already done. After the changes I have made, there is a fundamental goal that all Icelanders have a safe home that meets their needs. Furthermore, I want to make sure that they have a real choice of farm shape so that people can increasingly choose whether to rent or to buy an apartment or land condition. In this work, I have tried to focus on the overall housing of all the people of the country and especially on the less - afforded areas so that the solutions and options that will be available will be available to most people, if not all. I have often viewed this aspect of the assignment as follows: First of all, changes in housing funding are seen in the country, changes in social rent funding, and changes in the general mortgages. As for the change in social housing funding, the aim is to promote the development of social rent markets in Iceland and to improve the development and improvement of the general housing bar in Iceland, making it easier for the first buyers to save and gain their own housing. Already a step has been taken in that direction by the correction of the debt, but part of it was the special means of saving people for their first purchases. We can see that the proportion of those who are buying for the first time is also here in the capital area about 20%, though their average age is slightly higher than before a crash. Second, I would like to look for ways to improve my rent and support my less tenants with increased housing support. Third, I have sought ways to make it easier for housing partners to serve here in the country so that the security of their members can be better assured. There is already a discussion on the welfare committee of this subject. Fourth, how to build a more efficient and less expensive apartment so that the cost of construction or the value of the possession of the person will result in the loss of both prices and prices. As a result, we have already made adjustments in the construction of a building order to make it easier for us to build less housing. The work we've been working on in the government on housing matters comes from a Congress resolution as the highest possible. The prime minister set out here, including was suggested to be a project management for the future housing arrangements. She was assigned to explore all the above points that I mentioned here, and along with the project management, I made a very broad team of cooperation in the future housing structure that served to be the project manager for counseling. When the proposals were available in May 2014, further progress was started within the Ministry. These suggestions were very extensive, so I thought it was right to work on them in a number of stages. Since then, excellent consultations have also taken place in order to ensure that the quality of the work is done, making housing a very important interest in the community. We've been working in the first phase to produce four prime metastases either at the General Assembly or at the final stage. The aim of this prime project is to increase the availability and variety of housing facilities and provide security for all households. I'd like to mention, as I told you earlier, that there is already a bill about changing the law on housing partnerships, as well as changes in rent law. Since then, we have been working on the changing housing support bill so that the support of less tenants and farm-seat state will be increased and the government's housing support will be equal to that of different habitats. I have also served as a spokesman for the development of a social tenet that needs to be established by the state and rural areas. They are designed to form a basis for the social housing business. However, there I have also stressed that I do not want to make new past housing problems, so I have wanted to minimize the risks of a government fund for a long time. On the other hand, that's how it is. A senator described the problem of many in the building market and to solve it, everyone must come to the table. Thus, I have been in close collaboration with the workforce organisation and my community on solutions that will contribute to building roommates as well as housing partners where practical housing would be provided to reduce housing costs and which, hopefully, may become part of a very difficult job position. V.E.G. President. Under here, we simply have all the homes of the country. The domestic affairs are in my mind parapolitic. I think we're all going to make such a difference. We need to agree on this, and especially in cooperation with those who are responsible for making decisions on the survival of workers in a workforce in the Icelandic labour market, how we want to conduct it. [[The president calls.]] I certainly hope that we who will participate in this discussion will have a good and meaningful discussion on this important subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u198	Mr. President. Thank you. The words of Páll the son of Árnason, and the chief. Minister for her answers in this discussion. I can agree with both of them, these are extremely important matters. This is what the public in the country calls for. They're waiting for the best. Social and housing minister, because the problem is urgent. People look at huge rents to form in the capital area, whether they are people who have no housing but who need rent, people who have even lost housing because of economic hardship in recent years. Indeed, there is waiting for real reforms. I have to admit that the two prime products that have come up with the Generals, the housing partnerships, and the changes in rents are not the issues that will solve these people's problems. But I must be quick to ask. Of course, members of Congress hear news, and we hear news at the top. Secretary of finance who has said that the bills have not been ready, that the prime projection is still being changed, that costs cannot be won until the bills are complete. It's been so long in the field of communication. Ministers of society and housing and the Supreme Minister. Secretary of finance to the highest degree. The Minister of Social Affairs has even said that he would present the bills, not in the name of the government, not by the cost of the Ministry of finance, but as a member of Congress, as a chief of staff. paritaprevir Eygló Harðardóttir. I must ask because the matter is urgent, and I expect it to go. Councilmen in each category will be prepared to work on this one of the most urgent forms of solution today: What is holding up? Is there a disagreement in the government? Will we expect the primary projections in the days ahead? Is the workforce being scraped off now, which means that things are not yet done for cost assessment? These are the questions we need to know. [[The president calls.]] And, of course, that would be good advice for the highest level of advice. Minister to take us into the position of government to agree on these matters, for this is a matter that we must make peace with. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u199	A respectable president. It is sometimes spoken in these halls as if what is being done here could have no effect on the situation in the labour market or in the solution to the struggle. In fact, this varies from day to day. Yesterday, it was thought that there was a lot of innuendo to go for activation, but today we hear the old song that really doesn't matter what we do here to solve a fight. Now we're discussing a subject that I think most definitely, and it's clear to everyone, it would have a big impact on the situation in a labour market if we got along well. The cost of living and how it develops depends heavily on decisions made here and on the local community. It sucks that we are not discussing ambitious housing products that have been offered many times, and instead we are discussing here all day long and again. During this brief period, I want to highlight the recent presentation of the Industrial Association on how to reduce construction costs and change motivations in the environment and the national environment so that more smaller camps would be built. During the days, an excellent work was published by Almar Guðmundsson, director of the Industrial Association. It says that according to the calculations done by the industrial organizations, by permission of the president, the average building cost reduction could be about 48.6 million. K. each apartment of 80 to 120 square feet (U.S.) I think we're supposed to listen to these things, and we have to go on this project with a very comprehensive realistic view. I think there are a lot of social buttons that need to be turned in order to reach apartment prices in order to increase the supply of small apartments and to reduce the cost. [[The president calls.]] There we come to ourselves on the basis of the economy, which is the interest level and all of it, and whether we will have that currency forever. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u200	A respectable president. I hear most of the specific conversations that are enjoyable in this discussion. I'd especially like to express my joy with a statement by the highest degree. A minister on the importance of establishing a system where people will be helped to save and to obtain their home. We've had a perfectly crazy system. We have placed enormous sums of money in order to encourage people, in fact, to owe them rather than to help them acquire one. We have to turn this around, that's fundamental. Of course, we need to revise our support to tenants as high as possible. A minister brings to mind and delight to hear this agreement about changing a building order with the intention of helping partners build cheap apartments. There is evidence that we are doing everything in our power to prevent this from building cheap apartments. The pink elephant, which no one wants to talk about, and I don't understand, I have to admit that I don't understand, and I often feel that the discussion is quite amazingly strange, a respectable president, is the housing bank. We've already set 55. Millions at the mortgage bank, the state house bank. It's 1,833 apartments, if we take them at about 30 million. There's one Lands Hospital if we go out on that comparison. The problem is, people don't want to do business with that bank. There are ideas, and we've been through the fact that we can stop this and still have a loan system that can benefit everyone, where we don't have to go any further than our cousin Dana. One other thing that is never discussed is an enormous problem in the capital area. The lack of property has to be turned over in Reykjavík in recent decades. It's just something we have to do, because if we don't have enough housing and property, then what we do here is of little importance, the cost of building will always be enormous. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this does not apply just to Reykjavík, but it is the largest community in the country, and we have to look to it in particular.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u201	President. Thank you for your discussion. I'm really worried about renting, very much. And what I'm worried about is that based on these suggestions that you're going to have for reading and seeing in the big context, these housing compensations will not be valid until 2017. I'd like to ask the minister if there is anything else that the minister would do to deal with today's critical problems. I'm sorry that in a presentation on VOLV it's about to go for, for example, 100 yous. K. Pay rent a month for a family. I just have to inform the highest. Ministers on the fact that people are not allowed to live in Reykjavík, at least 100 of them. K. if it's going to have more than one room. Even a studio apartment can not be obtained at that price for individuals. So it's very urgent, and I'd like to encourage a minister - I've noticed a discussion about these statistics with a partner of tenants and others living in this reality that people feel that such statistics and standards are almost offensive, that the Ministry that is supposed to work on this emergency problem is in no better relationship with reality than this. We must naturally have standards that are related to what is on the table today. These statistics may have applied in 2005. I would like to encourage the Minister to bring these bills and measure them so that they can be dealt with during the summer and that they can be evaluated so that it can be done immediately in the fall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u202	V.E.G. President. Clearly, tenants'position is very serious and has been for a long time. Social housing has been available for a long time in Iceland, first with the workers'farms that were laid down and brought in 3.5% of the loans. A policy has now been made to establish a building system to improve housing costs and to reduce the cost of living people's expenses. Of course, the way to reduce rent prices is primarily to increase the supply of rent houses. Thereafter, rent payments or housing payments have to be raised to provide similar support, regardless of the type of living that is available, whether renting or having a place of residence, depending on the cost of living, cost of living, and income. That's the right way to meet tenants. However, for the supply to increase, a fusion system must be established. It seems now that something is unclear how these matters should take place. I would like to use this opportunity here in the discussion to encourage the Minister to remain faithful to the policy that was established in a great deal of consultation, with both political parties, in the labour markets, and especially with the Icelandic Community, which, of course, played a key role in this, i.e. The rurals, to ensure property and to work with the nonprofit partners who want to set up a real estate. In this way, we provide housing supplies, thus guarantee housing security, and a housing system will provide assistance to rent people just as much as to those who have their own housing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u203	V.E.G. President. It is important for all of us to make practical choices in housing. Today we cannot say that this realistic choice exists, and there are several reasons. The cost of rent is too small, and unfortunately, many do not have long - term rents. It is also difficult for people, especially the first buyers and also those who have lost housing for some cause, to return to that market for such reasons. A loan system or financing of housing. That is why it is important and I welcome the way the government has made it possible for special property to be used to collect money from an apartment, but, of course, more is needed and there is even a reexamination of the building order. We must watch that not everyone wants to buy a house. If we look at the rent market only then, it is very important that we increase housing for those in a rented market, and in return it would be very helpful to look at, and I believe that it is done, whether we can bring up any injuring measures in order that rent prices won't go up. This may be e.g. tax wills to those who get rented into long-term tenures and, for example, for example. lower tax pay from those apartments. But it is important that we look at this and that we lower rent prices, because if individuals are to be able to have room to collect money from an apartment, we need to lower rent prices.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u204	V.E.G. President. I appreciate this discussion, because I think we all agree that the housing issues are the most important issues we're discussing here, even though we may have some section of information about how they are best handled. V.E.G. In her case earlier, a minister said that she sought to see the overall housing, that I think is good. I don't think it's a very good start, though, that in a bill about the changes in rents, which is one of the world's highest capitals. Ministers already present are advised to complete the 3rd mgr. 2.g. The law, which will destroy, however, the system, the housing system here run on social foundations and provide thousands of people with housing. This is a very serious matter to me. There's only been mention of the change in construction order, I've mentioned it before, and I'm going to do it again now. Here we must not be distracted by short - term thoughts and demands for access, for the need for well - accessible housing will only increase in years to come. The country is growing old, it is expensive, as we have often discussed, to build a nursing home, but the policy is that people can live at home as much as possible. In order for this direction to work, we need well - available housing, so we need to think about the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u205	A respectable president. I appreciate the voter for this discussion, it's very important. I also want to use this opportunity to encourage the highest. The secretary of the house continued in his work. I'm very into the ideas I've heard from her about the basics that have to do with housing benefits as well as tenants. It's important and good, and I don't doubt that the council won't bother them. I encourage the Minister to contribute the first. I just want to talk about the interest level in Iceland. Of course, when we talk about high housing costs, the interest level in the country is important. We are in the Icelandic crown, and inevitably, growth levels are higher than they should be. I'm not saying that the high interest level is entirely to blame, of course, many factors affect interest levels, but I think I can claim that interest levels are higher than it would have to be because we have this little currency that has little trust. I think we're paying one eight billion a year for interest, and I think it's a little strange that the state and the taxpayers pay money for interest costs, which are so high instead of taking up another currency and paying off interest costs. It's a slightly distorted transfer system, if you want to go to it. That's why it's also such an important and good idea of the housing that I know has been in the discussion for a long time and that it doesn't make a distinction between renters and those who own and promote special policy. Anyway, I'd like to point out that I'd rather have wanted the advance party to put this case first than the debt correction. It consists of about 100 billion, and I think that the billions involved in this case are the highest. Ministers are much fewer, and they would have been able to make more use of the money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u206	A respectable president. I thank you, too, for this discussion. We'll talk here about the cabin plans. On the one hand, we talk about the special policy and about the rent market, and I don't think either is up to the point. The suggestion to use our special savings for some time so that young people and others can have their first apartments are important. I also think that, at the same time, it is necessary for us to reevaluate consumer loans because the way they are today and the level of payment is clear that there are not many who go through them, but young people and older people may be renters and they have to pay you from 100 to 200. K. in rents that, of course, may likewise depend on their loans. This is also a significant point that we need to deal with in these discussions with all about how we want to operate in our country. It is also clear that we need to reevaluate the building arrangements for the construction costs, but at the same time, when it comes to all regulations, we need to keep in mind not to reduce security requirements at all times. It, of course, involves the bioavailability of disabled persons and many other relevant subjects and dwellings. We also need to be careful when talking about growth improvements and child rearing, which are about 7.5 billion a year, as well as about 5 billion rent payments that are about to be used so that they can be used to the best, as well as those in their special property as well as those in the tenant market. It is money that needs to be used, and it may not be as useful as possible and might be revised, but it takes careful action.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u207	Mr. President. The situation at a rented market is not particularly good. I'm looking around these days and, like, what? paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir pointed out the cost of a two - room apartment a lot; I was looking at a camp like that, though we're four, but the kids are small, and you'd rather live narrow than having to spend an enormous amount of money, instead of living narrow for some time to save money to buy or keep room in the future, collecting money, and stuff like that. What I would like to hear better from the minister is how to handle these matters. A building order has been named here, and it has been Einarsson to be a member of the minister's Arnardóttir that Haraldur laws and regulations for the new building of an apartment Elsa with Lára objective of simplifying the system and reducing construction costs. This is something I think a lot of young people want. They want more privacy on how a house would themselves want to build, and this would guarantee it. I myself would like to build two containers, make them part of the world. I've done a lot of research, people just go on the Internet and check it out, you can make it look super nice. I've already seen how much it costs to buy a large window that you can put on one side, and this could be done to provide an extenuating room, but the building principle is simply too inflexible to allow me to do this. Also, you can wear these outside, etc. That way you might have a nice farm, and then you can expand it because you can always add it. You can start small and then add. Well, it's my dream anyway. Another thing about the tenure market, it is to revise your partnership legislation to increase your partnership freedom so that people like Iceland's tenants can have more leeway, they want more privacy on the right of society so they can get along with tenants. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u208	A respectable president. Thank you for this discussion, which has been well illuminating. I'd like to mention some shows here at the end of it. First, it was said that we had been supporting people in the system, and that would be the opposite force over the years. We in the United States have provided an up-to-date housing system that uses everyone, not just the workers now, but I take the warning against thinking that it is a perfect, final solution. Of course, all the countries help people with borrowing expenses, and not all of us are born so rich that we do not need loans to make housing. That is why it is important to develop a new system of extra loans, and it is important to increase growth improvements, as mentioned in my previous speech, in a time of deterioration in the present government. On the one hand, of course, we need to start seeing direct action from the government. V.E.G. A minister said that he wanted to look at the facilities in general. I think this government has done enough of looking at these matters. It's been two years she's been watching things. They don't have to be looked at anymore. We need direct action in the increased supply of a rented house. I traced many suggestions we've offered, small and large, and the government has to offer its suggestions in this regard. She needs to make it up to herself in the way she likes to raise foundation grants and suggest it in here. She's had a year to do it now. You need to raise rent money. A decision must also be made about housing institutions because it was discussed here. We have declared ourselves ready in the United States to watch the dance system of housing institutions and, on the other hand, that one of these is in a public property that will be built on the foundation of an apartment loan fund. We believe it is important that the State owns the only housing facility in a new system. The ball is with the government. He's been there for a year, since the project administration came back. For two years since she took over. We've got to start seeing some action. There's no need to look anymore.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u209	A respectable president. I thank you very much for the good stuff about this big case, housing, national housing security. It is as is often the case that we can all agree, e.g. the sentence that all homes should live in security. I think we can all agree that only in this way can say that Iceland is a real welfare community. However, we can often disagree on exactly which way to reach that goal. This is something we've been working on, and a big step has already been taken. I mention up to 150 billion that have been set aside for the correction and special means of saving people for housing and debt reduction. This has already affected. The burden of payment is dropped, we see that growth improvements are decreasing, and the debt rate of the households is improving. We also agree that further steps must be taken. We see in Iceland's polls that perhaps deep down, we dream of most of our own houses, perhaps with a garden, perhaps with a view to the sea, but I think we're going down. Senators simply have to face the facts, I believe that we are doing so in this discussion, and not all of us are equipped to make our own housing despite the public's excellent housing and possibly with special support for the first buyers. The number of rent - market victims has increased substantially, and especially among the three lowest income groups. We also see in the context of social change that there are people who simply don't want to buy a small house or a small apartment, they choose to rent or buy farms because they are better suited because they move more often because they understand more often and because they just don't want to be in debt like before a crash. So our role as a government is to nurture all these homes, both those who want to have their own homes and those who want to rent, but especially those who are less wealthy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u210	A respectable president. I thank you for the fact that the presidents of Congress met and reviewed the situation in which the discussion of a frame plan has taken place, but I also declare a great disappointment that this meeting has not brought us forward in the troubled matter. Dates in this discussion have been floated, but according to the Work Programme Framework Programme, it is assumed that the project management will provide its final results for Ministers on September 1, 2016. It is the time we are looking to, and then a minister in the hands will have the final motion of a 26 - benefit project manager, including the benefits as long as possible. A professional health committee suggests that we are now being added. I appeal to a respectable president by continuing to make some decision that makes us feel successful and that it is absolutely clear that the law is respected in this important process. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u211	A respectable president. I'm protesting the President's conference board again. As we have noted many times, I would like to have answers to why we are discussing an adjustment here, which is not in line with what the minister of the jury has proposed, not in accordance with the opinion of the lawyers of the hearing and not in accordance with the decision-making committee. To discuss this matter, we need to be clear about what we are really discussing. I know this can be difficult for those at home and out in the community, but what we're up to isn't just a senator's conclusion but a huge change form from a greater part of the professional committee and we need to know if this is really a member of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u212	Mr. President. I have to say, I'm sorry I didn't get anything out of a meeting. The council members that was held here earlier. I think it's a good thing that the meeting was held, but I'm sorry it didn't come out because it doesn't work that we spend the council's time discussing a suggestion that conflicts with a frame of law. Like what? paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir was well aware that a project management works according to a specific timetable and the thought of a person's illness. The members of the greater part simply did not trust themselves to wait for them to suggest, that they are politically concerned about waiting for them when it is absolutely clear that this is what the General of Parliament must do if the Council is to follow the legal process. I once again object to the fact that this matter is here on schedule, a matter that no one is doing. A Christian who has a good conscience may briefly be on the program according to the code of laws we have in force.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u213	A respectable president. I think that those of us who look at our career and know it well realize that if people had not been going on such a strange expedition with these laws against the legislation, it is very likely that there would have been one or other way at the General Assembly in December. Hv. paritaprevir Sóggis Svavarsdóttir went over the deadlines when it comes to reviewing the task management frame, and we're talking about 26 arranged options that may be entering the council after less than a year and a half. Therefore, the responsibility of these governments and these administrative parts is complete that these issues have gone into disrepair, and if anyone is delaying, it is the administrative part and the share of the employment committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u214	Mr. President. Like other members of Congress, I am deeply thinking and feeling overwhelmed by the failure of a meeting at the highest level. The president of Congress and the fact that we are going to continue our discussion on matters that we do not consider to be widely accepted, at the very least, questions arise as to whether the adjustment of the proposal could be legalized if it conflicts with legislation. We've quoted some memos from the Department of Professional Railroads, as well as the Environment Ministry on that subject. Then again, I advertised a change proposal that would be nice to get into a later frame. I'm asking the President, how is that suggestion coming from?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u215	The President has reason to believe that there has been a Senate document and that it has been announced at a meeting. 15 related to the program.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u216	V.E.G. President. I agree with those who have declared disillusionment that nothing has come out of a meeting of the council groups with the highest order. President. I allowed myself to be so optimistic that I had some hope that something was happening, that it was taking some step in trying to solve the knot in which the matter is coming. I am so disappointed if I have not walked there. To be honest, I was going to do what I had to do. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Ingadóttir, enquires a formal adjustment proposal to the adjustment proposal I hear the President says he's already made. I'm going to go study it before it goes any further.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u217	A respectable president. When you don't like it, you just have to say it, and I'm going to continue using this team to express my opinion of this system. There'll always be new occasions. I'd like to direct it to the President and the council office to see if there are ways other than differences in the councilroom, and whether or not to try to design them, because what we witness is the cost of conflict, he takes toll, and now there's a very serious disagreement in this matter. It's not a filamentist, it's not a seminary, it's just a very deep dispute here. I'm the highest. A president to recognize that when there is such disagreement among members of Congress, there are other acceptable ways to cope with such a situation, even prevent it. Here, they're completely obvious.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u218	Mr. President. Like what? paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir went over earlier when this order of possible activation in a process. It ends next year and could be discussed at the 2016-2017 legislature, instead of tearing the benefits out of this legal process and presenting them as proposals that many of us doubt meeting the laws of the Framework Programme. I must say that I feel totally unacceptable that I am not listening to these views, especially in the light of the repeated discussion of this matter. The members of the greater part do not even realize what we are dealing with. This morning it appeared that this was going to happen in the 3rd. Of course, this raises reasonable doubts about the fact that both eyes are open and that it can have the consequences that will continue with this discussion and try to run this case into payment to upset the entire legal environment. [[The president calls.]] What, then, is the example set by the International Assembly of Iceland? Is anyone surprised at what people say about the respect of the council? It's not that we're doing what we're supposed to do. It's about that the council is not working under their own law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u219	The president asks why. Senators watch out for speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u220	Mr. President. Then it has been managed to squeeze out an adjustment that is not large, not much of a reading. A report says: It is suggested here that the proposal for Haemagglutination to become a novelty group should be submitted to by a different point of view than other activations in the proposal and has a greater proportion at the same time agreed with environmental and resource ministers on this proposal. There is no other evidence to support the adjustment. It's amazing. There's just as much logic as there was a change in the motion itself, not anyone, just zero. You can't invite the Allied Congress to do this kind of work here. You have to start working here, as this field indicates you should.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u221	A respectable president. I don't have an extra word for a report with this adjustment proposal. Is it true, more dignified President, that this greater part of the employment committee proposes and makes such an announcement? Here is a suggestion that Habitat activation be converted into a novelty. There is a different view of it than of other activations in the motion. What other viewpoint? These other views can be found - where? For example, in the review of the Environment and Resource Ministry that deals with the insurmountability of the proposal, it also makes sense that there is a problem with the same problem as with the other activations of the lower yoar. What other viewpoint is this? This is unacceptable, except that more than a part of the job committee represents their case in this regard. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u222	A respectable president. One amazing record after another falls into this discussion. Here's a motion to make, like a rough one. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir mentioned, one of the most peculiar and probably the worst in the history of the council. She's one sentence, and the rest of it is: In addition, the majority have agreed with the Environment and Resource Minister on this proposal. Are you making fun of us? This case is being torn down from a professional process because more than a part of the employment committee feels that it is more likely to evaluate what to go to a novelty party and what not and how to explain it in this way. This is the complete humiliation of the Generals. She's reached new heights with this proposal. He is an evidence of the entire issue in his entire life, how this more important part of the government is willing to cooperate in his work methods from A156O with the sole purpose of playing his will through here. [[The president calls.]] May I, at least, ask for it, a respectable president, because of that. Egilsdóttir Is Eglanddótttir here in a side room, a senator at the time, trying to provide material support for his proposals at the General Assembly? [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u223	President. The dangers we have entered at the High General Assembly began with the fact that the current government, which was then in part, prevented the introduction of the new constitution at the General Assembly during the last days of the last election. It then decides the highest. Minister of Foreign Ministers to shun the General because he could not violate a matter that would compromise the European Union and now, because they are repeatedly able to ignore the normal Congress and the people's will, we are in a position to - I don't really have a word to describe it. This is a perfect disrespect for this institution, and I propose, Mr. President, that this proposal of the greater part of the employment network will be simply rejected and that it will be again announced to a council meeting to review these sputum structures. [[The president calls.]] This is shameful. Make an account of your nature, members of the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u224	V.E.G. President. These adjustments have been made in some words, and I'm not going to give them more than just a suggestion. The chairman of the Group of Groups of the United States, Helgi Hjörvar, has noted that through one discussion, four new initiatives are to be made past a frame plan or the procedure there was decided. Then there's a change, and there's the odd proposal, and I'm worried, Mr. President. I think it matters, and I ask, is this a minister's policy or is it being opposed to a minister? We haven't had a clear answer to that question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u225	A respectable president. It's getting super awkward. It's gotta be said right now. In fact, I'm beginning to feel sorry for most of it, and I'm offering that we stop now. Why are we not discussing the synonym's proposal for H baddmation as the former Supreme Court? Environment Minister proposed, a suggestion that has gone through the process? Activationists, and the front of the management board at work, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, is about to set foot on himself by not allowing a more objective discussion of the Senate arrangement for the activation. I think the more part is really damaging itself, but I don't know if it needs to pay a lot of money to say that. That advice, however, was free of charge.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u226	Mr. President. I'd like to continue to discuss the current change proposal and have finally reached the point, but unfortunately, it's quite thin thirteenth, and doesn't argue why a man turns back one option, but not more. There was no logical support for the case at baseline. It is now spoken of as working and doing projects, and professional groups merely center on human viewpoints. I challenge it. People in this room, Páll Jóhann Pálsson and Jón Gunnarsson, follow this adjustment proposal and explain it. If this were in some normal context, it might seem that people would come to terms with this matter and what they were offering. With no reason, this is a dead end, no one knows where the rest is going to go, and we're supposed to retract this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u227	V.E.G. President. The adjustment in the new program has been proposed, and we have actually called after all since Friday. It was not long to study its contents, since the report with her is only three lines of information that suggests that Hagwater activation is reinvented. It would have been nice to know something about what these views involve. But all right, this adjustment proposal to make the adjustment has come forward. Is it not next to know? Prime Minister, how does he view this discussion as an introduction to a dresser's conversation? That still stands out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u228	A respectable president. Well, sooner or later it was bound to be knocked down on a piece of paper that is good and blessed, but it does not change where these adjustments stand, what is the danger of putting it down as it stands, whether it has these adjustments or not. It is not a Hagwater activation that distinguishes whether this adjustment is legitimate or not in the past, and it is expected to be approved and expected to be prosecuted. Although it is good for men to at last put this into writing after quite a lot of the complaints from my parts, this alone is nothing to change the situation. I think it's important to keep it up.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u229	A respectable president. That's not what we're asking. At last, the adjustment that has been called a lot to do, and then it is impossible. We worked hard to keep it simple enough so that there would be no misunderstanding, but I understand why. The officials of the government feel that this is a thin thirteenth, for of course they would have liked to have aided a◯c and preferably whale healing, too, all of the continuum transfunctioners. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[Up front.]] By saying that other views apply to it, we are referring to the very argument that the Framework Management Board has not set Hag water activation into a novelty party, we accept it, but the projection Framework Programme 2 has put all the other benefits into a novelty party. By activating the Lake Hagah, we were witnessing that we were allowed to move between groups of factors that have been discussed. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] That's the difference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u230	President. That's what I'm talking about. The senator clearly shows that the understanding of the box is concluded, and the professional process is complete. It's just that way. The framework in this process has been drowned by more part of the employment committee and the greater part of the Generals because this case is here on the agenda because the President of the Generals has put it first that they will be finished and everything else taken into custody and that the whole council will upset as well as the community. I'm concerned about this, Mr President, as well as about the fact that the president is deeply biased in this matter. So I declare mistrust in the President of the Generals to give the part of the program when it comes to this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u231	A respectable president. In this crisis of speech, people are greatly disturbed after all the discussion when this proposal was called for. She's out there, and she's getting her own head out of Lake Hags. This brief report says that it has fallen from a suggestion that Hags are moving into a novelty group, and there are other viewpoints to it. This view was tore in my speech when I spoke to a committee party part of the committee. I explained that she had not come to the conclusion of the project management with the other suggestions and that in this way there would be weaker evidence to give that priming option to a novelty class. [[Up front.]] I went over it exactly. What was the view of what we were listening to? We were listening to the people at home in the country, the people who are living with this information, the people who are concerned about this and the traveling agents in the South, as I listed, who think it will be a great deal to build up and strengthen travel in this area. That is the evidence the committee used to make the decision to make. Now we've come to an agreement with a environmental minister who was also opposed to a proposal to take it back, and now he has stopped making a big fuss about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] This is not the big deal. You've received the proposal in writing. [[Then stop listening to the local people.]] Now start a business discussion on this subject so that we can begin to discuss some of the facts here. [[The president calls.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u232	The president asks why. Councilmen to remain calm in the hall and to remember that it is not to be addressed to other members of Congress in the 2nd person but to direct their case to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u233	Mr. President. I think it's a bad thing. The last senator mentioned here: You've had a new proposal. Since he was in his speech so eager to withdraw this option, I wondered why he did not present it at once or before the committee took care of the situation. You see, I'm pretty sure that this change could not have been achieved unless the government has stood and continued the work of nature. It is not enough to withdraw, it is clear, and it may be clear that the management situation is not satisfied that this particular proposal is the only one that will be submitted. Maintain your status as it is here at your command. That is not at the command of the government.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u234	A respectable president. Both of them. Councilmen Páll Pálsson and Jón Gunnarsson have come here to stress the problem, probably unintentionally. The problem with this strategy is that it violates the whole ideologies behind a frame plan. Whether this is involved or justified by some terrible action by the former government, which the person standing here had nothing to do in order to be maintained is different. What remains is a problem. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is now trying to say that he was standing in his committee program, which simply underscores the fact that people went into this without regard to a frame plan. Now, we still have the other benefits, and then it will continue until the third stage of the Framework Programme has settled this activation option. I don't know why. The members of Parliament are in such a hurry, why don't they wait because they've been through this in phase two. Phase 3 refuses to suggest this despite having the same data in advance unless there are any new data, but not yet. Congress officials can't just wait and pretend that there's some point in the matter of rolling down on paper what people have been talking about here for the last week. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then I'm talking about myself to make it clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u235	Mr. President. How fine it is that adjustments are made, and what we are discussing will be clarified! There is no longer a discussion of putting Lake Hags into a colony. But it's natural, like any other play here. Here, prosecuting politicians point out and say they're going to get this activation option to a colony and the other, who shit about a professional committee who shits about a 20-year job that's under a frame plan, it's just gonna be this way because they think it's supposed to be. This is not going to work, Mr President, and it may be clear to the president that while on this table there is a modification proposal that is contrary to the spirit of a frame plan, the government will take a good time at a councilroom.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u236	V.E.G. President. We're here to discuss a frame plan and a change in the development of more parts of the employment network. The committee received a large number of members and reviewed the matter well and discussed it in a number of meetings. It was as if there were a wide range of views that are natural in which the matter is controversial, and this is where we are discussing a major issue that has to do with the future and development of the country, there are lines to the living conditions of future generations and living together and associating with nature. For example, when it comes to priming, the discussion is often designed to involve only two groups of people with the opposite opinion, those who want to activate everything and the others who do not want to activate. Of course not, since among these are a large group of citizens of the country who want to be moderate and sustainable use of natural resources. Among them, I think I am. I'd like to take a good look at all benefits and reflect on their impact on environmental and natural activities in view of sustainable development based on three main areas of society, economics, and natural nature. We live in a land of great natural resources to be associated with with with with with with honor. We are seen in many ways in Iceland's models of sustainable energy efficiency, even of Iceland, and of the country as a green energy island. Here in this discussion, we are talking about initiatives, not about what we're going to do with the energy, because this debate is limited to that. The role of the Framework Programme is to classify both to use and to protect, but it must be borne in mind that although the components have been classed in this way, it is not necessarily that it is final, since there is always a possibility that the benefits from these groups will be valid. The tool created is a complex, detailed process that requires careful research and research. Let us also remember that Iceland is the only country in the world that has ever worked out a framework of renewable energy resources. That in itself is remarkable and good, but it is true that since the beginning, there has been a dissipation of the evaluation of the overall activation option. It even has its own meaning. In the law on the protection and energy efficiency programme No. 48/2011, however, is clearly stated by permission of the president: The aim of these laws is to ensure that the use of regions for activation is based on long-term trends and the overall basis of interest assessments, which take into account nature's protection and cultural memory, economic efficiency and profitation of different resources and national values, as well as those that use these same benefits with sustainable progress. All work on a frame plan now aims to classify activation options for energy efficiency, waiting and protection party. When this work was started, there was no ideal methodology for the pioneers. However, the work process has been under way, and it is not likely that any further changes will occur. It seems to me that it would be good, for example, to take a closer look at the waiting party and even expand it or to divide it into two categories, where another would have advantages that might be considered more carefully to determine the continuation of work and extra space and efficiency. Task - management teams have the task of separating the impact domains of the proposed projects and evaluating a number of aspects of the region for activation. The work groups are divided into three phases, consisting of assessing and staging areas by the values assessed by each group. Evaluate the effect of activation on these factors and then arrange priming options from latrines to best benefit from the evaluation. Naturally, the benefits do not match those of the professional groups, since they work according to different values. The task management is then aimed at integrating the data of the trade groups and uniting their results in the final order. The password in the frame plan is a professional assessment. Notes show that a programme for protection and innovation will include initiatives covered by the project management. This is how the General will not take sides with other initiatives except the project management. This does not mean that the Allied Council is bound by the proposals of the Commission or Minister for the classification of activation initiatives, but only before the Council is involved in a professional assessment of activation options and geographical areas. The report of Project Management shows that all priming options in the Þjótur have received a professional assessment in stage 3. In a second phase, a mob went through a professional evaluation. A professional health committee has received large amounts of information on the subject of controversial advantages, but it is quite clear that the committee, such as this, cannot make a professional assessment of individual advantages. However, the Council is bound, not by the proposals of project management or Minister on the classification of activation options, but only by law No. 48/2011, including a professional assessment of activation options and land areas. I propose a greater part of the employment committee on this basis, and I know that once the activation option has arrived, a long process is in place. This will go through a process called the environmental assessment of projects, which is much deeper and more accurate than the environmental assessment. In this process, there may be valid reasons for improving innovation class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u237	V.E.G. President. I am very happy when the members of the board of directors speak as well as speak well. A senator now does, and explains his viewpoint. I can agree with many things. A senator said, as if careful and important research needs to take place before sorting and that the password is a professional opinion and that the employment committee cannot evaluate the professional evaluation but is the task management. I don't think that's what I think more than a part of the employment committee has done when she moved these four models from a waiting party to a colony party. I support, among other things, the argument presented by the Ministry of Environment, which they expect the General will not be able to change the category of these costs since the legal process of protection and energy efficiency has not been established in these areas. That's what the Environment Ministry says. My question to why. A senator is whether he believes that professional judgment has taken place. This has not been done, and it is not true that the task management of phase 3 has returned it, that is what the minister did not trust to attend, because it was not yet finished. [[The president calls.]] My first question is what? A senator says that he is considered to be a member of the Environment Ministry memo.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u238	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for the comment, i.e. the answer. The Ministry of Environment issued an opinion, not a ruling. A greater proportion of the Committee added these advantages is that experts have discussed this in steps 2 and 3. Of course, only Thurley, about the benefits there, and in phase three, but in phase 2 it was thelast.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u239	V.E.G. President. I'd rather have a bad answer and feel like a whale. A senator hesitates to answer my question about that opinion. It's an opinion, it's an assessment, it's the Ministry lawyers who present this with the Minister's approval, not the current minister, but the former because this was done in November. So I reiterate my question of this opinion by the Ministry, which says that the legal process was not followed and therefore it cannot be changed. Second, I'd like to ask what. A senator would know if she had been aware of the memo before making this adjustment and taking the matter out of the committee as it was, because it was presented in the speech. A senator should take a good look at all benefits. This has not been done, mission management 3 could not yield to the former minister's proposal for this activation, and therefore, the current Environment Minister alone took the option to propose one activation, i.e. Impulse revascularization, a waiting party, because that was all the project management suggested. [[The president calls.]] I reiterate my question of being considered by a legal office and of whether or not. A senator was aware of this memo before the case was taken out of the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u240	V.E.G. President. Yes, the one standing here was aware of that. I'll get to quote this food directly, with President's permission: In view of the Ministry's opinion, the Council, taking into account the law of No. 48/2011, a adjustment in the classification of the activation initiatives proposed, as the benefits have been obtained by project management in accordance with the laws of the law. [[Up front.]] These benefits have all been discussed in the professional groups, and so I repeat it, the benefits of the Þjótur had been discussed, said the head of project management in a report, and thelasta had already been discussed in the 2nd step of the framework.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u241	Mr. President. I'd like to follow that question because of why. Parliaments Páll Jóhann Paul Pálsson and Egilsdóttir Eelsdóttir speak of the advantages of more than a part of the employment committees providing a professional discussion in a project management. How can this be reasoned with if the director of a work programme manager says that there is no effect on, for example, the Hagwater activation and Scrocroves, and that is why the project management has not trusted to contribute to the highest level. Minister, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, except one advantage of the eight as the highest. Minister wanted to be evaluated. Isn't that as crystal clear as you can say? Is there a lack of confidence in the Chairman of Project Management, Stefán Gíslason? He'll say this when he gets to the committee and both are. The senators listened to his words. How can this be misunderstood?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u242	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electric Rafney Magnúsdóttir for the counter-sponsored. In response to this, I cite a series of projects and the words of the chairman, Gíslason, the son of Gíslús, in which the project management considered these advantages.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u243	Mr. President. It's getting a little awkward not to get a proper answer to this, and you would now expect members of the committee to have it. The job committee would have more involved than this in the discussion, not being able to reason more clearly. I left them at the highest. Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson not this? Did he understand something when he received just one option, Indominator, out of mission management? Was there a misunderstanding, then, that was understood much better by a majority of the professional committees? This was shown in the talk "Wicked. " paritaprevir Þórunn Egilsdóttir said correctly: The committee cannot have a professional assessment of individual advantages. It's the big thing in this whole thing, that they get misunderstood. It is possible to make a change in the proposal for Aggression, not some entirely different option that has not yet passed through this professional process and made a suggestion from a project management. You just have to admit that they made mistakes, big mistakes, some of which they have corrected. I would like to have evidence of that in my case. paritaprevir Yet, the case of the Þórunn Egilsdóttir is why man has now withdrawn the production of Hagah water. What evidence is there? And hopefully they admit that this was a mistake because it is not the responsibility of the Committee to classify the practicality, protection, or waitingness, except for the benefits that have come on the basis of a task management program and then a minister puts in place, as was done by Involvement. Although it is controversial, however, legal ways were applied.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u244	V.E.G. President. It is absolutely true that a professional health committee cannot make a professional assessment of these advantages. But the benefits we put forth here are on the basis of the development of project management in stage 2 and project management in stage 3 have discussed them, all the benefits of project management of stage 2 and project management of stage 3, i.e. about the ones I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u245	Why, then, did the minister not suggest this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u246	Regarding Hag Lake, the Chairman's transport was made. At the beginning of the job committee, it is based on what is weakest. He hasn't gone through this professional food. But there were committees listening to local proposals, the local people's wishes about it, and he is one of these. And what makes this so controversial with nature protection is that there's evidence there's both on both wings and on both sides... [[Up front.]] That is why we withdraw this because it was put forth the weakest basis in our case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u247	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator's reasons why she thinks it's wrong. Why is it not to wait for the third phase of the project management? The reason I ask is because this is a debate over the process that is meant to be in order to make people at least feel good about it. I have not personally taken a stand for outstanding initiatives in this transition, except for the Uryrofos, which I am opposed to, but I have not formed an opinion of the others. It's not the main thing here, it's the process itself, the frame plan. Now we have the opportunity to resolve this matter in some sort of agreement over the process, but instead the matter is reassigned to opposition to the Environment Ministry, as it has become famous and another. A senator came in here earlier. Counts 'em out. A senator is not worth anything to be done with a common understanding of the process itself? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u248	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Yes, it is very important that these matters be settled and settled. That's why I was surprised when it happened. In his speech yesterday, when speaking of a frame plan, the chairman of the Left Green, Syghis Svavarsdóttir, said that there would never be peace, and this was not a policy of reconciliation. That really surprised me. What happened during the last terms, when priming measures were retracted, was done on a political basis. In effect, we are going the same way now to push things along and push them forward. But I think it's very important that we continue talking about a frame plan and continue working on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u249	A respectable president. With complete respect, it is not possible to act as if this is a frame plan according to the understanding of all involved. More than a third of the council understands this differently. It would be no problem to achieve a common understanding by simply allowing a project control of the 3rd class to finish the job. Then it'd probably come out. Also, the Ministry is part of the Commission, and it agrees with the less part of the council on this. No convincing reason can be said that this is followed in any way that humans agree on. As for the reconciliation, I think I know what it is. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir was content with the process, not necessarily content with the results of a two-way process. I feel the same way. I want the process settled. There will never be peace with each other. At any rate, if we are content with the process, we can avoid such bores, as is the case at the council. So I ask again to be completely clear, more dignified President: Why can't the Executive Director be completed before we take this activation option into consideration?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u250	V.E.G. President. I think it's important to start social and commercial projects better. There's a call for more energy. The case is that during the last terms, upon withdrawal of activation options, resolution and cessation of implementation were observed. I think it's very important to push them forward.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u251	A respectable president. Thank you for your speaking and for your time. A senator for the speech. It was extensive. She reviewed the work process of a frame plan that she said in evolution. I can't quite agree with that. I feel that the Law on Framework is very clear and settled and that there's nothing in evolution at all. That's how I understand these laws. I completely agree with what was presented in the Sermon on the Mount. A senator, to be assigned to a professional assessment. But then the senator also said: "A body of elders is not bound up, does not need professional food - but is there something to boast about? Is it good that the General or the greater part of the professional committee would like to work that way, not according to professional opinion? Is that good? Why is that what more thing wants?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u252	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The one standing here now feels that there was no boasting about anything, but I was merely reviewing the facts and tracking down the work process and the construction process. We have a synonym, and the General can accept a synopsis and make a new arrangement for it. That was only what was meant here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u253	A respectable president. I must express my disappointment in this answer. I'd appreciate it if we were discussing this a little bit more in the foundation. The General can do this. But is that permanence? That's what I'm asking you about. Can we be proud of the other things and things the Council does? That's what matters. There were some factors in the case of the senator here, for example, that it was considered rather than a ruling from the Environment and Resource Ministry and that the environmental assessments now take place - it's an illusion, I think, and a wordline. We know that the Organization has told us professionals on a professional committee that the environmental assessment is to be carried out by rural society. [[The president calls.]] It's just that kind of thing. No activation option has been replaced by the environmental assessment of projects. [[The president calls.]] Think but not decisions - is it good to stick to them and boast about them? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u254	V.E.G. President. I hope I haven't been proud of myself here, that's not what I want to do. But we've understood it differently, me and him. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir, whose environmental assessment is carried out. Deeper than that, they are dug deeper into things. It includes environmental factors and further research and into those to whom it is appropriate. I have complete confidence that there will be a great deal of work and extensive research; and there will be evidence in some way that would suggest that there is no preconceivable operation then it will be stopped. Is it, then, that it never happened because it was so new to us? That is what you can ask yourself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u255	Mr. President. The speech that was given earlier and the answers that occurred at the beginning of the day. A representative of the changes made by a professional health committee is certainly a reason to take the matter off. It cannot be said that there are men here, conveyors change proposals, stand here, and say misinformation repeatedly in the platform, do not know the history of a frame plan, do not know what happened here during the last term, when the facts and history were being reviewed. Moreover, the whale is described as "woe. " A senator completely distrustd the project management. The panel plan has simply failed with this proposal of more part of the employment committee, the mistrust in the project management and a frame plan out of the window, thank you, because there is so much to be activated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u256	A respectable president. Here local members of Parliament, formerly ministers, cry out that this project management is slighted, demeaning, those who had previously cast out six waiting activations. What is the debate now? This adjustment involves making three priming options, and two of these gave all four professional groups the highest grades. Now we debate whether there is a frame plan 2 or a frame 3, which has not yet arrived, but in frame 3, the eight options were considered and further data on Urras and Holta activation are requested, but according to the reviews. From the Power Institute, the information and the data at home in the environmental assessment of projects are the next level after this. Actually, all we're talking about is the other group we're using.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u257	Mr. President. It is strange to continue this discussion when the Management Board talks with so much revulsion and unfounded spells that people are shocked and unable to continue the discussion under the premise that they are actually describing a lack of confidence in a work ethic that is working now and has a number of costs to cover and evaluate professional matters. Then came a talk. paritaprevir My Þórunn, Egilsdóttir, said that the job would have been about stopping during the last term because it had not been activated, so we need to hurry to activate immediately and miss all professional procedures. The activations during the last term, the Hellishe activations, and thoracic activations returned 535 megawatts, and more were in the pipes of the substances I'm not going to list here. Is this some sort of argument and debate in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u258	A respectable president. I believe there is a great need for us on a professional committee to find out about this matter because there are clearly different viewpoints or differences in understanding of what was asked of us on the committee. We're out of business. paritaprevir As for the development of the environment, the activities of the Agency clearly differs from the case of the Egilsdóttir of Elil. I can agree with the senator that it was shown in other cases that environmental assessment was just a natural process that would be used and can be cut off by the board, but I specifically cut off in the case of the Agency, which came to us for another time that it was said very well that rural communities were bound by the decision of the Generals, and if the Council decides to move these activations into the activation party, rural communities are bound by it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If there is someone else with a greater part of the job committee, we need to review it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u259	Mr. President. The majority of the successes of their case have become prominent here during the discussion, which has been exposed. They will likely flee from a hall because they do not want to listen to our criticism of their current situation. I would like to encourage more part of the employment committee, and especially the people who were not last at council, to read the Committee's opinion on 526, 89th matter at the 141th legislation, on the protection and energy use of territory. At the end of that says, by permission of the President: The work of the Project Management Board and its professional groups was closely discussed by the first class. The progress could be observed on her website and made comments and reviews. Meetings were held throughout the country with stakeholders and interested persons. When professional groups returned their findings, they were introduced and put in an open narrative. To ensure the legal position of the Framework and Professional Work Programme, there were laws on the protection and energy efficiency programmes, No. 48/2011, set in May 2011. [[The president calls.]] They were agreed with one another. The Project Management Board submitted his report with a proposal to order priming options and territories in July 2011. In accordance with law No. 48/2011.How's it going?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u260	V.E.G. President. I come up here because in this discussion, there have been so many talk of political horse shops during the last term; I come here, my party sister. paritaprevir It's a whole new Oddný Harðardóttir, to defend you. She is one of the most successful members of the council. We who have cooperated with her know what kind of work it has to do with it. It is a master of action, building its work on information. I was with her at the council, where she worked on the development of a framework plan, along with the existing environmental minister, and I take it very seriously that the repeated process of working for her. Once things have been said enough, they'll start to be true, so I'll come up here to protest this because I don't like it going to be here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u261	Mr. President. We will continue to discuss this subject, which should have been scheduled long ago. The president should stop the program and refer it to a committee that may then decide to refer the case to a minister, at any rate, to the deliberation of the change proposal and simply to the Hagming procedure. What, then, is the situation? There's two things in the situation. One is to wait for the opinion of the project management, it's gonna slow things down by two years. However, Ministers themselves, within the framework of the law, suggest adjustments that are not necessarily supported on the basis of this task management; they can still do so within the framework of the law by a two-month reporting process. It would be a bit of a product, but at least it wouldn't be breaking the box. We still would have this law frame for long-term policy dating. This would naturally mean that these activation options would not be completed right now, just one of them, but the two - month notice would pass during the summer and the next fall could be completed. This is what we are facing instead of moving on here in the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u262	A respectable president. There must be some kind of challenge here at the council. I feel that the discussion on this subject has become so prominent that certain basics are not clear. It is always bad to discuss matters when basic things are not clear. We may now be sailing in a series of developments in which decisions will be made by the greater part of the council on the basis of a complete misunderstanding. There seems to be some misdirection of a framework, what a project management is supposed to do. The project management had certainly completed its review of these activation options, but then it went in a review process, there were reviews, that was part of the process. After the reviews, the project management was assigned to set up a matter of opinion that was presented in those comments. It hasn't finished yet, the project management, and for that reason alone it's ridiculous that we should be discussing it here. That doesn't make any sense. But here, people come up and talk about it as some political event, it was as professional as possible. I'm just gonna mention one thing that is obviously a misunderstanding about what's been going on in this frame plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u263	President. I would like to agree with the solution to the case under discussion. paritaprevir Jón Þór, son of Ólafsson. I think it would be easier for me to conduct a normal administrative situation here. I want to, too, because I was at the last assembly, to agree that I found the job a serious way. paritaprevir It's a Oddný new Harðardóttir. I feel that this matter is established that it is a problem for the General to continue talking about it. It's a mess, and it would be the most obvious thing to do if you were at the normal workplace that those people who could cut this knot would meet outside the council, and we would set up other issues. I challenge the president, and I challenge the members of the greater body to urge the president to postpone this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u264	President. Still protesting in the memory of the section at the council meeting, where the laws on the framework have been violated by a greater part of the employment network and proposed to change the Environment Minister's proposal for a Framework Programme, the Environment Minister's proposal to bring Hamps activation into the activation party. Four changes have been made in this process, and this is a violation of national framework laws, protection and energy efficiency. That is why we protest, and we will continue to do so. The tragedy of all of this is that it never compensates for the arrival of the movers here, why. Councilmen and members of the professional department, especially from the forward line because the others are not seen and so one representative of the Independence Party yesterday who gave a fine speech here, because they do not seem to understand or understand the laws of a frame plan and nothing about what they've been doing. [[The president calls.]] We're going to protest until this thing goes off.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u265	A respectable president. Here's a basket of the law. According to the Environment Ministry memo, this is reflected in a comment on Article 3. track No. 48/2011, about the protection and energy efficiency programme, frame plan, that it is taking only for the activation initiatives the project management has discussed. In the report of the Commission that follows the initial Congress decision made by the minister: ▪ As described above, it became clear in the autumn months of 2013 that a project management would only deal professionally with the three activation initiatives at mail within the short delay given [...] In other words, the project management discussed these three less creative steps just as required in the law that changes can be made. The results of the projection are then concluded, and it is reasoned that certain uncertainty about the effect of Inhimm activation on salmon fish has been reduced sufficiently to justify reactivation. However, uncertainty regarding Holtic activation and Uric acid activation has not been sufficiently reduced. This conclusion is just different, but the task management discussed these three activation options professionally. She came to this conclusion and, according to the law and in the notes of the Environment Ministry, it is said that it is only about the benefits discussed by the Management Board. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Could this be any clearer?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u266	Mr. President. It is hardly possible to continue this discussion any longer, considering the last words. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, who ends up saying that more of the professional committees just disagreed, and the dog was buried there. That's what I'm talking about. One person simply disagrees with the professional practices of the project management and the careers involved in the work being carried out at the highest level. The minister of Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, however, followed. He could have trusted that he would not go against that professional career. But more than that, a part of the job committee is more men than that, taking steps and doing better. And speaking of the whole nation's economy stopping, when its pipes have 535 megawatts, the expected activations deliver much of it, but inside today there are 90 megawatts from Hellishe activation and 95 from Buddhist neck activation. [[The president calls.]] Don't you think it'll go for a corner?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u267	Mr. President. I come up here to suggest that the matter be canceled. This is a frame plan to be a process to make up for the methods of working that would be in place when energy efficiency options were grouped. It may be obvious that there is no peace, for people here have allowed themselves to be interpreted, people who want the old tool of war for activation. Here was a suggestion, in line with a frame plan, where members of the Parliament can have different opinions on whether they support the activation or not, but all agreed that the proposal on it was based on the rules we had agreed on here. I suggest that the matter be taken off schedule and found a way out of this predicament.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u268	A respectable president. I'm just trying to figure out why men go on like this, especially in the light that if they hadn't gone into this weird circle to take in four additional interns, they'd have had a whale inactivation out of here. That probably would have happened in December. Then I'd also like to mention that according to protocol, the project management will deliver a series at 26 costs in the fall of 2016, which is only next year. What, though, does the administrative body decide to do? Just to show their power, to show what they can, to decide to go on this expedition that will only cause the situation to be completely upset, to make war over the trial, and to slow down the whole matter through the council. That is what remains of this administrative expedition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u269	A respectable president. We just disagree with the project management of a frame plan, we more than a part of the job committee, said why. Chairman of the Professional Road Committee, Jón Gunnarsson. We don't agree, we had some professional opinion, but the results don't matter. We've already met it, dropped into the box, yes, a professional evaluation has taken place, but it has nothing to do with it, because we're going to do something else altogether. It's amazing to see it, amazing. Then what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson telling the project management of a frame plan to do so well and pack up and get back to work, because they're making them look like fools, they're making us all look like fools by making them think they're doing something important. So, you guys are supposed to be masked in what you're doing, making decisions about the continuum transfunctioners just like that after what you're doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u270	President. During these last days, the picture has become ever clearer to the breaking of the covenant. The box doesn't matter anymore, according to the majority of the Generals and the rest of the speeches, just to be held, Mr. President. You wonder, then, why are you trying to stop the progress of those who see no future in any country except to activate every prostitute? Because we have to make sure that when such bad things happen like this, destroying a frame plan that took 20 years to establish, the professional process, we have to make sure that the public is aware of the vandalism taking place here. This is a vandalism, and it should be off the agenda.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u271	Mr. President. I agree with that. paritaprevir IBjört say Ólafsdóttir if it was. Congress officials feel that they are above the professional values of those who have been assigned to the work, so it is good to make the people aware, to let them know, and to the people. There is no need for people to be paid if they are not expected to give up any product that is to be followed, if their work is some outward show. I don't think it's acceptable. It is not acceptable for people to take the power they do by this and to misuse our intelligence and those who have been assigned to work. I'd like to give a quote to a committee on a deck. The 526 of the 141th Council, which says that it is not wise to operate a strategy in an effort to organize energy efficiency in a way that involves a race of some kind. Rather, the question is much more about how little we were able to use it during the course of time. [[The president calls.]] So you ask, "What interests are we here for? " [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u272	A respectable president. I used to think why. Again, the head of the prosecuting committee makes me feel quite suspicious that all this compromise would be based on misunderstandings and it would be best for the Senate to take this matter off and settle this misunderstanding. Hv. The head of the professional road committee claims that a professional evaluation has taken place on these initiatives. Still, a minister simply suggests the resounding of the whale because he was not able to do otherwise. There seems to be some crazy disagreement about when professional judgment is over. You can understand why. The head of the pro board said that a professional evaluation was conducted as soon as it began, as soon as a man put his finger in the air. It's not over yet. How does more of the employment committee understand the concept of a waiting party? These advantages are held in a waiting category, not by a protective group or by a colony, but by a waiting class. [[The president calls.]] If a waiting party is understood correctly, we are not done with the priming option. [[The president calls.]] There is a waiting party in this context. It's serious if they don't understand, but if they understand, they're to take the matter off and clear it up. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u273	Mr. President. I've got to say, I feel like I'm a gimmick. The head of the pro board, what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, don't keep water. In fact, he revealed why. A senator, I think, the confusion as it is. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson was discussing earlier when he acted on it and spoke as if it were enough to meet the laws, to breathe in the essence of the law from a frame program, that the task management had just looked at something and maybe talked about it at one meeting, then it would be fulfilled. Of course, it's such a preposterous interpretation that I hope it is. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's all alone. The task management took this option precisely for the request of a minister, and then they concluded, in effect, that it was the right decision during the first term to hold these categories off because the task management says: "There is no research and there is no information about fish development and the effect of counterweight actions because we do not have professional groups to make this further work. Therefore, there is no basis for changing the category of these costs at present. [[The president calls.]] That is the conclusion, the minister agrees with it, thus making the suggestion. [[The president calls.]] Hence, this mechanism of action is so brutally wronged by everything else in the process. [[The president calls.]] The political part is blundering against itself, at least To his ministers, with this ruckus.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u274	Mr. President. I don't think that's the right thing to do. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon to what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is alone in this regard. This exact examination can be read from the Supreme Court decision. President. It's just that way. I think, Mr. President, there's a way out of this mess. The five inducers have been proposed to this change, one has been taken out. There's nothing important in the large context of energy because it's only 30 megawatts. There are then three activations left in the lower part of the Tube. This was shown in the case of a man. Harðardóttir Svandís Svavarsdóttir. paritaprevir One factor to consider is the salmon fields. If you look at them, it's primarily the scene. This matter can be resolved in a relatively short time by obtaining, for example. A foreign agency to review the mold from science that has been written on in recent years. That's what we're supposed to do. Therefore, this suggestion can be taken out of the table, directed to the project management to complete the three activations in the fall, and we can either throw these out of the table or take up uncontaminated cases, and discuss them here with those responsible. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u275	President. Sadly, that did not improve the situation. The head of the professional road committee was involved in this discussion. I'd like to read here from the Committee of Committees a greater part of the job committee: On October 22, 2013, a group of professionals in the United States, were assigned to cross over. the above report and answers of the European Environment Agency and the trade group assessment, dated November 4, 2013, of the uncertainty of the available data on the effects of Hm, Holta, and Uric acid activation. The group thought that it was justifiably a requirement for the creation of a waiting party, but they did not consider it justified to bring Holt reactivation or reactivation to a novelty class. The group does not feel justified in bringing these initiatives into a novelty class. How in the hell can politicians come and say, "I disagree with this conclusion of the professional group, I know better? [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u276	A respectable president. A report by the Management Board makes it clear that professional assessments were conducted. Yes, more than a part of the employment committee does not agree with the conclusion after the detailed review procedure she took into her case. This is exactly the same as politicians during their last election period as ministers did when they reviewed this matter. They followed it in a review process and evaluated the results of project management and professional groups so these activation options should not be of a novelty class. There's no difference between what they're doing back then and now, not anyone. This is being appreciated after taking it in a review process, and we make adjustments on the basis of it. What's the difference? Are they making people look like fools? So they were making fools of you in the last term? Is it being revealed here? What is a treatment for the council if it was merely a stamp pad for these results? Why, then, the law? This doesn't make sense, Mr. Honorable President. [[Up front.]] Of course, it's totally on track. These activation initiatives in Þjórtur have received a professional evaluation, and after a review, they have come up with a reasoned modification proposal. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Then more and more members of Congress come and say, "What interests are being cared for? ' This may be as tasteful as it is. paritaprevir The other day, Beggis, the Svandís of Svavarsdóttir, withdrew from a Castir show where she suggested that I take bribes for this matter. [[The president calls.]] I feel that, a respectable president, a full reason for the Senate Presidency Committee to consider it when members of Congress make such comments about other members of Congress. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u277	A respectable president. I remember when I was about six years old and they did something wrong, and I thought I'd do things about each other, and they were chewed. Then they said, He began; therefore may I do the same. In general, this argument is not very good in Icelandic society, and I must completely reject the argument or the supposed reason. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son that this is what was done during the last terms. Not that it doesn't matter, but let's say it's true. There's just no logic. ▪ He started to show a lack of legitimate logic. But in fact, with the harsh criticism that the last government received from them. A senator at that time would think that there was something wrong. A senator would be acknowledging at the same time that he is doing wrong now, that he himself recognizes it. If he dares, he'll come here and correct me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u278	Mr. President. I have to agree with what. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson, who claims that this is a big misunderstanding. I think it must be that way. Here we go. The head of the pro board, what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who claims not to see the difference between what happened during the last terms and what is being done right now. During the last term, new information was presented in a legal process that was conducted only by professionals. Therefore, the activation initiatives were held by category until project management had taken the information into consideration. That figures why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson said that if politicians don't listen to project management, overlook the professional judgment of a project administration, they just accept activation options like that, and eventually throw themselves into a novelty party. There's sky and ocean between here. Obviously, the entire presentation is based on a big misunderstanding, and the situation needs to be taken off.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u279	A respectable president. I'm going to quote a little bit of text, and I hope that the president respects me when I run a few words, so it's not quite a quote. On July 20, 2013, the letter was as follows: ▪ As soon as possible, they are directed to project management for protection and energy efficiency of land areas to set priorities for their work so that they can carry out their work as soon as possible, a professional assessment of the following factors. These activation options are considered. Then it is said: ▪ The substance for these costs is primarily the influence of the Injuries on salmon and then the effect of the other costs on the wide range and near Lake Earth. It was not the bad left government that wrote it. These were representatives of the present government who asked the project management to do exactly this work, but now they call it going outside their realm. She is directly asked to assess this effect. And then to say that it's better to have a professional evaluation within a job committee that makes me feel like myself in the following part's report, by permission of a president: It is suggested here that the proposal for Haemagglutination to become a novelty group should be submitted to by a different point of view than other activations in the proposal and has a greater proportion at the same time agreed with environmental and resource ministers on this proposal. [[The president calls.]] This is the rational support of the professional assessment of the greater part of the employment committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u280	Mr. President. This is getting increasingly sad with understanding of why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son in the process and in the spirit of the law on the framework plan. In addition to what it was. Harðardóttir It is important to note that there was no option from the proposed results of a permanent category of task management. It was only that based on the data presented and the professionals needed to better evaluate, some benefits were made, while the waiting party is a waiting party. Well, it seems a bit surly. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson does not understand, so as time passes, this system will become increasingly tragic. I honestly don't understand that most of the stuff doesn't start to admit what comes from each of its surrenders in this matter. There's not a stone on a stone in the case set by all of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u281	Mr. President. Nor does a stone stand upon a single rock. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, who, of course, runs out of the hall at the time of world-class talks when it comes to the alleged lack of energy. If you review how much energy it takes for all the big business you've already agreed to, it's 500 megawatts. Impulse reactivation is approximately 80 megawatts. I guess there's a careful estimate of 100 megawatts loose in the system. If you want to improve the cohesive line and the link east, you can take 60 to 170 out of Kälegans. What may be the most important, and I don't understand why the majority of the objects have not been examined, is Burfian reactivation 2 that has permission and can create 130 megawatts. Then there are 80 megawatts to the 500, and it is possible to add the turban in several rivers that are more well along the way and that may bring up some 2,030 windmills that have gone very well. [[The president calls.]] Thus, all of this can be solved, so it is nonsense that there is a major industry for cleaning that has been decided.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u282	A respectable president. That is a contradiction in saying why. Work committees either free of charge or work in accordance with the framework plan. All of this gives evidence of legitimate doubt as to whether the process is being carried out. During the last term, there was a smaller part that meant that there would be more things that would not go properly after the process, but the most obvious difference is that it was decided not to do something, it was decided not to enter a protection party or a colony. This is a decision to place either in a protective party or in a colony, in particular in a class of replacements. There's a difference between doing something and not doing something, and more specifically, it's a contrast. Waiting is the opposite of doing something sooner or later. This is where they do it backwards with what was done during the last terms. There was caution. There's nowhere to go. They wanted more information. Now people want to take into account new information and no new information, in fact, complain in the Committee that too much information is required. [[The president calls.]] You know, there's a lot of variation in the angles during this terms, and the last one, and it's not credible to act like it's something different.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u283	A respectable president. During the most encouraging talk of all. 4th, including Smoke. n., Vander Össur's Skarphéðinsson, he presented a case that I would have wanted to go into, but I haven't had enough study, reasoning that there is a great lack of energy. I'm going to have them discussed at this time, but I expect to include them in a second talk when I have an opportunity to get more information about all that material. Where possible, compromise can be done in particular. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and the greater part in general are probably not behind the claim that lack of energy makes it necessary to go into these inducers now. As I entered the President's conference board earlier and it seems that there is a physical difference between what is being done and what was done during the last term. During the last term, people wanted to be careful, to get more information, to do things later. Now people want to do things sooner, they want to use less information, old information, and they don't want to wait for information about what remains to be considered, which is, in fact, an original synonym. Environment Minister. This has been observed in talks in the past, including those mentioned at the end of the week. 4th, including Southk. Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir, who participated in the project at the time, surprised people on either side of the board, whether they wanted to become a colony or a patron class, how tight the waiting party was. I'm surprised that when men on both sides of the board want to deny that the waiting party is a terrible betrayal to someone who wants to wait a little bit and get more data on certain things that were being discussed and some things that concern them and the current project management, plan 3, plan management, is still worried about and has mentioned and outlined, as shown in the Article 3 of Congress Directive. Minister. On the contrary, the aim must have been to be careful and do good. There's a big change in the motion. The job committee, and it's the one we really deal with, even though it seems like it's the best thing to do with who we want to do. Of course, a frame plan was designed to make peace with the process that would be carried out, not necessarily satisfied with all the results. That's totally normal. Sometimes you don't like the way the Supreme Court judges. I often disagree very much with that, but I want the Supreme Court to have the Supreme Court, and I want it to be determined by the Supreme Court. Here is a lot of discussion about the judge at the High General Assembly, a respectable president, and I may go more into each of these speculations later on. It doesn't seem that there's enough time to discuss it properly under the supervision of the President, but maybe later I'll get there, I'll see if I have time for it. The rule of caution is the difference between what happened during the last term and what happens here. We can't put something in a colony to be careful. That's not possible. You can't put something into a novelty party and get it over with to be careful, it's going crazy. An interim principle in the Law on a frame plan considers a narrative process under consideration. It is probable that a review procedure will take into account the comments received. What's the point, anyway? Would it be reasonable to have a review of matters long after members of the council had any opportunity to change matters? This is not logical, and as a respectable president has agreed, the issue is no longer a matter of whether the matter is deemed acceptable. Of course, the Generals can do more or less what the General wants. The General may even violate a constitution, and now I may offer reasons why. 5th a.m. n.. ............................................................. some legalities, the legalities that can violate the legalities of the legalities that can violate the law of the legalities, which can be very serious of all of all of the consequences. We're supposed to avoid it. When it is legally in doubt of our legitimate actions, we should pause. The debate over the President's conference board that has taken place here for the last week is about the exact fact that we're supposed to stop and figure out how we're going to make this process, not the results, but the process at peace. We haven't done that, so there will continue to be a complaint about the President's conference board while President's conference board is so cursed as to be seen. I'd like to discuss only how this council proposal comes into the council. She comes in here after the three-point task management proposals. The Phase 3 could have used stage 2 if it had worked, stage 3 is expected to have access to all existing data, they were asked to take it into consideration, and specifically asked to first find out the results of the specific activation options. A professional health committee suggests something new. These are facts, and they are unconcerned. No one's ever been in a pit and said it's wrong. If this is wrong, I'll ask anybody to correct me, but nothing of that has been done. Why does the third stage of the project management not suggest that these activation options go to a novelty party? This is because specific data are yet to be submitted, it will investigate specific factors, factors that were discussed when it was decided to place this activation option in the waiting category at its time. There is also some doubt as to whether this will be followed by a structured program and taken away from legal conditions, solely from a political point of view, it should be sufficient to determine at least how we will settle the process for the future. Here the men are doing what this government has done, what the previous government has done, etc. I wasn't in the last government, I wasn't in the high Council when the last government was in power, I'm not in the government right now, and I'm not responsible for the way the last government behaved. Let us take a look at the discussion because she acted terribly badly but in the same way as then. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson says he's acting now. That's bullshit, of course, but even if it was true, that would be no excuse, no argument. There is a violation of the people who had nothing to do with this process, as it was during the last term after the entry of the Framework Act, when the actions of the previous governments are used as an excuse for the actions of the current government. What about the fine people who disagree with both sides? What if a person feels that the first government should not have done what he is criticized for? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, but he also agrees that the current process is past it. A professional health committee is not legal and wrong? There are people standing outside this rabble about who started it. This High Council would be a waste of taking into account that fact, and rather than using it constantly to justify the same nonsense on this side, not that there is just the same nonsense, about it, we should find a way into the future how we approach these issues in agreement about the process. Watch your step. For example, the employment committee has not proposed a change in the law that prevents the alleged delinquency, changed the law so that it would be perfectly clear how we wanted it to be? Then we could talk about it on those terms. But here we're pretending to have some kind of process that's supposed to be cool and that we're going through this process, thinking that we're going through the process, either justifying that we don't or acting like we're doing it. This is a hopeless, respectable president, but this is contrary to any process that is due to bring some kind of reconciliation. We might as well discuss each element of activation alone. In fact, it would be better for us to do so because at least a careful discussion of each option would be made, but here we have one discussion to discuss four activation options and until recently five activations. Now, I'd like to read a little paper that comes with a Senate resolution. Environment Minister, with permission of presidents: In its results, the task management suggests that HQ will be moved from a waiting category to the energy generation, but in other respects does not suggest a change in the order of activation initiatives established in the current energy and protection efficiency programme adopted at the World Council of January 14, 2013. The results of the projection board also suggest that measures for prevention of fish species, monitoring and reactogenicity should be taken if targets are not met and the definition of the additional research required for feed species in Infertility, particularly in a B spray application wound section and in the Murfjörður section. It is clear that these activation options have not been discussed in step 3 of the frame design phase and should be enough. The review sheet received by the Committee on the matter that came from the Environment Ministry does not specify any material reasons for recommending the advantages of a◯d in the proposed changes. Work committee, on the contrary. It clearly requires the attitude of the Ministry, a respectable president, now I ask for attention, in the opinion of the Environment Ministry, this change is not valid, not legitimate, not correct. Another thing that's been accessed is this terrible move to get it through now. Now, we've scribbled here on the President's conference board for a very long time because there's a problem in the community that the high Council should be dealing with, should at least be dealing with. The debate is there, but the high Council is not involved because we are trapped here. When asked, you have a seizure. The members of the greater part are making clear the ludicrous argument that there is on the side of this case. It is odd, however, that they fail to recognize the contradiction that is involved in claiming that this is the case and that, on the other hand, many of the members of the committee's list of pages show that this will still take a lot of time, even if the proposal is accepted. There's a contradiction. There's no way to justify something that's on the ground because it takes so long. This underscores a bit of the theme of reasoning when it comes to this matter. This is not the case that people are actually trying to convince one another with reason and facts. Rather, it is primarily about power, as do so many other things from this particular incident. More than that. It's about how you can punch things through here no matter what's muttering or humming. Of course, this is because the lesser part is totally powerless unless it has the freedom of speech, as one knows or should know, and should understand why. One argument was ignored. paritaprevir Jóhann Pálsson's son Paul's, I don't remember if it was yesterday or last week or earlier, that it was important, among other things, for the release of the sages. The debates are going on, they're going on right now, and when we're going to talk about something that's not going to work until after a whole lot of time, years, it doesn't mean to put it in some way with the current fight. That makes no sense, Mr. Honorable President, that's a total bullshit. I never cease to be surprised at how difficult it is for people to see it or to pretend that it is difficult to see it. It's amazing how much people can understand things when they don't have the best interests of understanding them, but that's another story. One thing that shows up in the committee party of the greater part stabbed me like many others. It says here, by permission of the President: ▪ First, it can be noted that considering the matter has led to comments that the project management requires too much more information in its review. You don't know exactly how to start to criticize such a thing, but the whole point with the frame plan is to get more information so that you can determine if something belongs in your innovation class or in your protection class. And what do you do when the data is missing? Yes, you wait, you put things in a waiting party, get more data, and try to reach a conclusion some other time. And if you are in phase 2 of a process, you can wait until step 3 in the same process. This is a crazy idea, and it's probably not too much to be expected if people are so sure that all of this is ahead of phase 2, that the committee has these data, simply leaving the information to the project management so that it can quickly and definitely take account of them as it has been asked of by the highest degree. Ministers and quickly and surely come to the correct conclusion according to a frame plan. Then we can reason on how we feel about specific activations, but we would at least agree on the program. By the way, I think there's a lot of evidence that at the General Assembly, I've said this before, I've tried to say that to most sitting presidents, I don't think it's a good idea that the Honorable President of the Council allows himself to establish the situation that more than one-third of the council is having a disagreement with the program, not the subject of the matter, but the program, that we need to wribble here on the legitimateness of taking a case or not. Of course, some process in this situation should have long been discovered. We're a young people, but not that young, there's a lot of ideas going on. One is that the High General has a legal office like that. 2.m. s.. It's like I've suggested something, and I'm far from feeling like a bad idea. However, I am made so that I would rather use democratic methods if possible, and I could point out some very simple advantages that could easily settle such cases and others, including the following: that a smaller section of the council could bring up national pay on extraordinary matters. Then I give particular attention to the fact that there is no part of direct democracy, there are other ideas in that subject, but the appeal is that the greater part and the smaller parts speak together in the early stages. We shouldn't have to talk about it here and now, we should've talked about it a while ago, and we would've done it if we hadn't. The majority would have seen to it that it was necessary. Only now does he see the need to do so. We've wasted more than a week, and I'll take part, it's the whole Senate to blame, it's a respectable president to teach, honor more things, it's all my fault, it's all the people's fault, it's all my fault. We could have avoided all of this simply by having certain processes that enable us to settle issues such as programs and legal matters before it comes to wasting this much time and at such an important time. Here are important subjects to discuss. I'll admit that when I got into a pit, I thought I'd start talking about a whole different matter like that. Tenth. s.. So he did last week, happy memories, and he was right to do it. Still, I thought it best to sharpen some of the material on this subject, since you are usually busy criticizing the President's meeting board in this public speaker these days - and rightly. I can see why. 3.m. That's the north side. I'm here in the side room and I'll expect to be a part of this conversation, and then I'd just like to reiterate my suggestions that appeared yesterday or sometime we'll be discussing the President's conference board as a special part of the program so that there's a man, a reply, and so on, because there's every reason. And before what? A senator, as I know he will, would like to reiterate at the end of the meeting with the president is at least one here not discussing the matter materially but about the President's conference board, program, and how this assembly works. [[The president calls.]] This is legitimate and necessary discussion. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u284	A respectable president. Hv. A senator has strongly criticized the fact that prior governments are always being designed to back up what is being done today. Then I find it a little important to draw up to June 13, 2013, if I recall correctly, in June 2013, the current Environment and Resource Minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, who is now a seabed minister and agricultural minister, the letter to the project and asked to cross the impact of the Injuries on salmon stocks and then the effect of the other costs on the breadth and presence of a lakeland park. It was not the bad left government that demanded that men go to extreme intelligence. Rather, it was the policy of the government that this should be done. I'd like to ask you what. A senator would see if he would not turn back now from his own decisions.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u285	A respectable president. That hardly makes these arrangements better that the discussion has been made. Now I don't care for myself whether it was the former government or this government that went to the project administration with the task of examining these advantages and especially these aspects of the activation. I don't care if it was the former minister or the current minister, but certainly it doesn't help the language yet. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son that he was the minister of the forward party in the present state. A government that directed these recommendations for mission management. This once again emphasizes that we are not really here to reason and to try to convince one another about these advantages, after all. Doesn't seem like there's a plan, anyway. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, unless he thinks we're all fools.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u286	A respectable president. In June 2013, the minister of the Department of Development for the current government sends a letter to the Management Board asking her to evaluate the Injuries from the salmon fields as well as the rest of the activations from the effects of the Lakesjölbjörður Park. Then the proposal for the same minister of the Mission for Idolization during the Council in the fall is proposed. As a result, the matter goes on to some amazing job committee, and suddenly it is a former government, an ancient government, an evil left government, always has to blow away everything it is to have been responsible for being a member of this data source. This has become a complete confusion, and they know nothing of what to base their reasoning. I have to say just as it is that I feel that more part of the employment committee has done some pretty exhilarating of the parish minister and demeaning their work by this operation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u287	A respectable president. I think we see a bit of the symptoms that people talk to each other late in town. Now, in my own case, it's no wonder that a panel disagrees with a minister, but I don't think it's a relief when the entire government is in a sort of push, and all the more of it, if it's gone, because on this land we're used to seeing it as a government and more part of the council against a smaller section of the council, which has no Minister by definition. In view of the way humans do this, this is all the most unusual of matters. In my opinion, it's perfectly normal, at least under the regime that we're dealing with at least with the public. Most of the time, we thought we lived, that the council had independent opinions. But it must be on grounds other than the governments used here, because the case is simply that it is not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u288	Mr. President. Hv. A senator made an interesting point in his speech about what the Generals could do, not doing against the law or the constitution. Of course, there has been a bit of a subject in this discussion. First, it is clear that the Council cannot impose laws against the Constitution. If there's nothing to do about it, then there's no law, it's the constitution that's in charge of judgment. A general body can change all the laws it has passed as long as such a change does not violate the Constitution. But the Council has a very rich obligation not to perform anything contrary to the laws it has given itself or to any previous body of elders unless it changes them. Now it's clear that the law cannot be changed by convergence. This is where we're talking about how I smell Congress. And the more difficult it is to find that the decision in Congress has a legal origin or can turn it aside. That's impossible. [[The president calls.]] There are times when people can debate whether one law exalts or pushs others aside, but one thing is set, and the decision by Generalis in the form of Congress cannot and must not conflict with existing laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u289	A respectable president. This is an example of how the wording really offers much more information about how things are meant. Of course you can break the law. I can go into town, I can break a law, but I can't do it without there being a legitimate consequence of it, i.e. if the law is enough. I mean, it's the same with the General. A general body can break a constitution, but not without, expected, that there will be some legitimate and administrative consequences. One of the things I'm afraid of is that if this council concluded proposal is accepted and is not in accordance with the law then the decisions we have made here are not legitimate and if the procedure was to be charged, which I strongly expect to be done, then there would be a very uncomfortable trial for everyone, including those who are in favor of the Hagmies, for everyone. That would be a very unpleasant situation. I share this concern with you. A senator agrees that a body of Congress can never be more legal. The law may state that it should be a concierge, but when it does, it's just as good for Congress to be in harmony with the law because otherwise the question arises as to whether it needs to be a law rather than a synopsis.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u290	Mr. President. I'm now saying that the General cannot violate the Constitution because it's about the worst that can happen to the Allied Parliament and any member body, according to our signing an oath to respect a constitution. The worst doubt about the legislation is the Constitution. On the other hand, a general body can, of course, change the law if it does not conflict with it. A fine example of this is if a special deposit is based on a project, telling the elderly's management fund, so the Council is going to make it some time, how is that done? Is this, then, just saying that the law is superior to the other laws? No, the bill is transferred, usually in the comorism, with a so - called ◯ despite a law, and then decapitates or temporarily dissociates the Allied Act by saying: No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. In this law that the money should go to the elderly's budget, 200 million will now go into budgets. So there are other laws to set aside current laws. And that can be the case. [[The president calls.]] However, to think that there are laws to shun with a concierge, with conclusions in a Senate resolution, is in effect a check that you do not know the first letter of the alphabet as to how these things should take place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u291	A respectable president. I wholeheartedly agree with the senator, but I'd like to answer that if they wish to agree, and I don't know any senator who will be as informed as to please. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, if they were present at hand, would be able to submit a law bill for a change in the frame plan so that they could stop to the limit they believe was in the process during the last term. If people have disagreed with that process, they could easily present a bill in which the letter of the law would be explained and all of this about the reporting process, etc. and how ministers should behave, so that they should be at peace with one another, but somehow those who talk the most about peace in this town are generally saying that everyone else should agree with them. There's something like that. It certainly seems to me now. I couldn't agree more. The problem, however, is that the General Assembly can accept this synonym, although it is inconsistencies with the law. The problem is that it can have serious consequences because according to another sense of the words, it is not legitimately possible, but it may not be legal. The problem is, of course, that if it's not legal, we're all in trouble. It's one of the factors I feel like it's a problem. The members of the greater part do not pay sufficient attention because this should cause concern, even if they are in favor of all suggestions. Work committees and materially agree with them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u292	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Hrafn Hraffni Gunnarsson speaking beautifully. Hv. The senator discussed the form and the process of reconciliation as a frame plan, the frame of which we agreed, to go through this professional process, and to evaluate the advantages of each activity. I'm going to state it before I ask my question that I truly agree. A senator of the form is important to us in all this process. Rules are important. But they must not be so committed that they become stronger than the goals we are going to pursue. It is now a longer process than it should be, once the task management has turned in the opinion of a minister. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether the whole process of decision is sufficiently clear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u293	A respectable president. For the treatment information reported at the highest level. The last government minister of the environment made me feel that this was very clear. Also, when it comes to doubt here, I may feel that they're not necessarily clear, but the very fact that they're blurred should give us a reason to wait. On the other hand, it is very clear that there is a disagreement on the legality of this synonym, based on laws on a frame plan, and that alone is a problem. That means that the Council is actually risking breaking its own rules. If the problem is that the rules are not clear enough, then the right way to explain laws is to explain them. It's not going to work out for me personally. To me, it's very obvious that this isn't the right process. But if you do. More things disagree with what he is, he should deal with that problem by presenting a bill that changes a frame plan so that the process is clear to him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u294	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. The senator's answer. I have full respect for the fact that this is not simple and probably would not have been the time we've spent in the past few days discussing the matter would be simple. So I'll explain my question better from my previous answer then I'm going to read from the source of the Power Institute. It says, by permission of the president: By moving the proposed activation of the Parliament from a waiting category, the aims of the sustainable development of electricity production were put at risk by the Agency's assessment. When we are so trapped in the form and in the rules, the risk is that the principle of order will become stronger than the goals of order itself. [Regular disturbance.] It's a very powerful speech, it's over, it's out of the house, and I get an infinite speaking period instead.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u295	A respectable president. I don't know what to say. I was going to say there's nothing to indicate that there would be some agitation here, and the Icelanders needed electricity when electricity is generally low - and is generally stable, and you're surprised that the electricity will go off, and you have to admit, and you don't know why it's because it's not because there's nothing left to work. [[Up front.]] Yeah, I guess this isn't about anything we've done around here lately. This is really funny, actually. A Ramma plan was also set--this time I'm right again. The box was also designed to be careful, so that the process would be settled. Of course, Enforcement is on this line, just as environmental organizations are expected on a different line. That is why we took some process of reconciliation. It has failed, so much is evident that it has failed, whatever the blame may be. But the way forward is by adjusting the process rather than by continuing according to our own convictions to break it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u296	Now we've got more power in the hall and more light is getting clearer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u297	A respectable president. The senator mentioned that he had strong comments at the convention program. I have two questions, on the one hand: There were a vote here on the convention program, and it is clear that people are not getting together on the program, just as it is going to be in democratic discussions. It looks like who, and now it's more of the thing. Doesn't the smaller part have to submit to that proposal? That's what I was wondering. The other question is, when we go to the President's conference board, is it normal according to the Senate, because I know that the senator is very well at the council, that it is also a material discussion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u298	A respectable president. In the words as easily as possible. paritaprevir Þórhallsson's Höllsson is making a decision on the program, yes, yes, it is today's program, but the program has been set by a president for a while, and the president has certainly given it over the program, as it were. A senator knows. Now, an election is every four years. Every four years a certain percentage of this council is formed here, which has more parts. Reason why. A senator is the same as already the highest. The secretary of finance came here in a pit and said, "More part is in charge." There's 40% of this council that's supposed to have something to say, so I could throw the question back. Has not the lesser part the right to complain and howl and howl and howl and howl and howl and howl and howl like a bunch of losers if they think it's the 60th Council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u299	A respectable president. I've just pointed out that sometimes it's time to get back, and I understand the need. A senator doing all the things he described earlier, but I think some of us and maybe the nation are beginning to feel very comfortable about that. I've been watching the discussion all day, and in fact, only two talks have been made on the program, two material talks, that's how it is, a material discussion from time to time. paritaprevir Ivory Þórunn's Egilsdóttir and what. Senator, no more. Then there is the conference board of presidents, who is extremely sad. But what surprised me is that there are two minorities. I thought that the government was completely united in what she wanted, but after reading it, I can see that there's a considerable difference that I thought was quite different from the discussion that had been going on. [[The president calls.]] That's why I want to ask him why. A senator, because he's not the norm, is he minor? A senator supports, and who will he abide here for a vote?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u300	A respectable president. The reason why neither I nor any other pirats are on any of these minor opinions is because we are agents on the job committee for audiences, and we can't keep the ratings and we don't have a vote on the great committee. Hv. A senator earlier asked me what I would like to do in a material discussion about the President's conference board. I haven't had any material discussion in the past about the President's conference board. I trust in a dignified president for various tasks, including scolding, and he has already done so when it has been necessary for me to know. It's a respectable president to decide, not mine. And so, for all the people who are tired of watching us talk here, let them go. A senator like this has nothing to do with the greater part, as if it isn't a respectable president who comes to the program, as if it's just the lesser part that's so bad not always allowing the more part to take over, without exception. But if it were so that this 60%ththth would always, no matter what bolts and hummings, the minority might as well go home after the election and live on the remuneration without making a handshake for the next four years, as some senators may do. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u301	A respectable president. We keep going here tonight, and I wonder why. Of course, we will continue to talk about a meeting government, and much will be involved. This should be seen by the adjustments and discussions that have taken place that keeping this matter on the program is absolutely useless. We've been over this many times. It would be easier to continue the conversation that started today as to how we can look ahead, as well as how we may reciprocate about the process itself. It's the process itself that we're arguing about here, and it's probably if we don't agree on that process or if it's blurred in any way, we're trying to attack the root of the problem rather than try to punch things through here by force.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u302	Madam President. There have been repeated requests and suggestions from the management board that will be canceled. Sadly, the president does not seem to want to approach the council presidents of the government or presidents of the anti - held parties in order to bring them together with the highest court. Councillers and presidents who are hereby in full control and have decided that other matters will not be on the program. As I've told you before, it is entirely in the hands of a president to keep this case on the agenda, despite the fact that this case is being shown to be against the law in this country. It doesn't seem to matter, but there may be a lot of other things in this government, the suggestions are just active and in value as the highest. Every time it's convenient for counsellors. Hence, this suggestion may be as suggested as it was at the highest level. The minister of state did not consider himself to be in effect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u303	Madam President. You're now quite optimistic by nature, and you always think that after a break - now a lunch break for an hour - it's usually only half an hour - something's going on. [[Up front.]] Then you have the expectations of mankind and the greater part that humans are trying to solve it. But there seems to have been little in this hour of meal but the fact that people have been running out of food and sitting down with it, but the majority of the parts have not tried to contribute anything good to the solution of this matter, which continues to roll. I suggest that this matter be canceled, for I am not the point of keeping it on the schedule when men do not try to make peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u304	Madam President. It is only natural to ask, when we sail into the evening for how long it will last to keep going without knowing what to do. What's going on here is entirely at the administration point, he has nothing to do with it. Ever since the proposal. The former Environment Minister was referred to as a work programme rather than an environmental and organizational committee, starting from the news of changes in plans. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son and throughout this process has been in the hands of the greater part of the government. These are home-made troubles that the administrative body is solely responsible for. Then there is the legal device in such pieces - compare with the fact that now one and only activation comes out of their previous ideas of what to tread in - half that would be enough. I think the government and the rest of the government must begin to realize that the government's opposition is determined to protect the framework, to protect Iceland's nature, and not to be offered this strategy to Congress and nation. [[The president calls.]] We refer to the interests of tourism, as shown by its comments, etc. [[The president calls.]] The government and most of it face an overwhelming issue. This mechanism of action is not supported or based on sound, nor is it self - defeating. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u305	A respectable president. I think it is only because yesterday the prime minister informed us that the reason why we were here is the priority of the government would be that he was the key to a workforce. This evening's Web site reports that a structured program has never been mentioned in the current chicken interview, according to Hannes G. Sigurðsson, assistant director of the Association for Professional Affairs. The Gylfi of Arnbjörnsson, the President of the ASI, believes that changes to the frame plan do not relate to the discussion or be a special entry into it. A respectable president. For less reason, the cry has been made. The priorities of this discussion are totally out of order. If this is the highest understanding. Prime Minister of the serious labour market situation, I'm just saying, Guð bless Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u306	A respectable president. There were some who were asking here and were hoping that it would have been given an hour or so of a meal break, not half an hour as usual, but a meeting on an environment and transportation committee that was one hour long. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Þór Höskuldur Þórhallsson's palace may explain the importance of that meeting in his talk below. I'm not staying with it. What's stated in News News News magazine on false records at the highest rate. Prime Minister is a serious matter. He is going to shield himself and his abuse of power and the greater part of the frame plan behind - which people? Behind the people who are fighting for better terms. This is about the tiniest thing I've ever known. That the prime minister of the Pre Rights and the rich people of the country would choose Iceland's Common Union as a shield in order to perform rudeness toward Icelandic nature. What a place, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u307	President. This is a very strange time, and it should rightly remind us that this government, although having an alleged share, has no authority to break the agreement made by a framework of what to spare and what to protect. It's amazing. The prime minister uses such a protective shield for an entirely unsuccessful attempt to dishonor, in effect, the framework of a framework of the project, that he uses for the workers of the country, as well as a protective sign that is often used in war. It is natural, President, and long time to meet the requirement of the lesser part of this matter to be canceled. [[The president calls.]] It's just that way. Clearly, the government is hiding behind the fact that it has no cause.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u308	Madam President. I say like what? paritaprevir My daughter Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir was hoping that in an hour of rest, the President would have something new to offer and that time would have been used to solve the great problem we are in and the knot that the Senate has reached. V.E.G. The president has said that the program on which the program is now scheduled is the priority of the government and the Supreme Court. The prime minister has said that it is important to violate laws on the framework in order to establish peace in a job market. Now it's been found to be the highest. Prime Minister has not discussed this with the labour market party or with those who are at work. So I would like to agree with what others have said here that there is a prerequisite for this discussion and that it is to be completed and to take on more important matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u309	Madam President. For an hour before dinner, a committee of environmental committees was contacted and discussed with the candidates the proposal to take the facility from Reykjavík, New York, when it arrives at the airport in Reykjavík. There's a suggestion that I don't think they're going to be brought up for approval in this council hall, but it was some kind of show to show that the director of the proposal and the head of the Environment Committee, anyway. paritaprevir Höskuldur of Þórhallsson, would be very interested in the location of the airport. In my opinion, what's really big about her is that she's giving up the conversation. She's actually going to see that we've had enough of not getting a decision on the case, and then they're just going to recommend a law order. The same is true here regarding the subject on the schedule. [[The president calls.]] It's a complete surrender to events, to talk to each other and to reach a common conclusion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u310	Madam President. It has been found that the city of armor has fallen that the prime minister would have as a reason to press on with these initiatives by means of all laws. The Document City was the labor force today with 214,000 bars. During a month, the people were to buy them in a collective agreement that they were being specifically activated, that they could now have access to electricity in the pay code. Isn't this on a pretty low level? The labour market partners have sworn to this, so it is quite clear that collective labour agreements are not being addressed by illegally treading up initiatives in efficiency. There's something else that drives people forward. That's the question that continues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u311	Madam President. They say we can't resolve the fight here, that's what they say. Yeah. The members of the Independence Party say, but it's the highest. Prime Minister and says that the approved case is the basis for the success of treaties. It may be another issue in the government home that men do not talk to each other. As I was traced here, it's just a bunch of bullshit. Of course, it is not acceptable. The prime minister gets away with lying. He is to represent his case and be desirable to do so before we continue with this matter. It is also worth quoting what happened during the evening news of the VOLV, where the current state's struggle, for many years, says that treaties are not an account unless part of the case, they also focus on what seems reasonable to be the result and that it is achieved today: ◯I believe that there is a lot of civil unrest. We're dealing with a lot of issues here, not just with the purchase, but with other aspects of society. It is the division of resources, the profit of resources, how to divide it. A respectable president. This is what we should be talking about and trying to solve, the huge problem facing us in the community. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Hv. paritaprevir Þórhallsson may fall on the sideline as he pleases, but this is what needs to be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u312	A respectable president. It's been found to be the highest. The prime minister is out of all ties with anything that may be called reality. He comes in here and claims that a structured program is about men's business, but it's been reassigned by those who are on the job market. So why don't we just take a break here, go over the situation and let the constitutions go over the grounds of this case again? When the main reason for the matter has fallen, a failure has occurred, and the presentation of prime minister, a complete failure, is reasonable. I'm going to go. Generals in real life, continue this expedition in the name of what the prime minister has announced, that this is quite a big matter in the solution of a labour market dispute, when members of the labour market have said that it is a total confusion? [[The president calls.]] That's never been mentioned there. Are people really going to continue the expedition on that basis, Mr. Honorable President? [[The president calls.]] I don't believe it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u313	A respectable president. I'm really worried about the situation in Iceland. I am deeply concerned that when 38 members of the Parliament's Hall do not pause as unpleasant facts and unpleasant realities, the prime minister of the United States is not afraid to resort to misinformation here in the General Assembly's symposium and to use completely appropriate arguments to hide behind Iceland's Common Association in his quest for Icelandic nature and breaking up on a framework. Don't people worry that he's going out here with full force, saying Iceland's German Federation has requested changes in a frame program that is then driven by interviews with the President of the German Union and economists tonight's newscasts? Do they not worry about what kind of government and the greater part of the Generals are involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u314	President. I have to admit, I share this concern with you. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. It is conclusive that the government does not succeed in completing important issues and therefore has to extend the council to set aside time for these matters. Wouldn't it be more reasonable, Mr. President, to just be honest? Why can't you be honest? The ugliness and the idea of lying out of everything is now coming to the back of this government. It's just that way. And please continue your course, please. With each passing day, confidence in the government class decreases, and they take no responsibility for it, they just keep fucking around, just exactly as we can read in the marvelous real and unpleasant article, the crazy men's rush of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u315	Madam President. I think it's already the highest. Secretary Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson made a recommendation for a synonym of one activation into a novelty party, and then began to propose a project administration if he realized the opportunity to make peace with a frame plan among members of the council. There is every chance that the increased proportion of things would have continued to be the same. More of it. Unable to see such an opportunity, a professional committee believes that continuing to push forward has the highest support. Prime Minister, who merely confuses some priorities in a dress interview, and then turns out to be a total load of bullshit. President. This matter is to be taken away from the program and considered in more urgent matters. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u316	A respectable president. This case is very strange because in itself there is not a very large disagreement about the government's proposal, the Minister's motion. As noted many times, although some may have been opposed, it has been approved. She would've just gone through here, worked by a legal process. Here, members of Parliament, not ministers, have opened up a case. I don't get so much attention from the President, so with President's meeting board, it's understandable that you come up here and fight. If you don't get the answers, you just ask again, " What's the point of putting this matter on schedule and allowing the Senate to do this? ' Then comes the highest. Prime Minister here in the Assembly Hall, and he intends to offer some support. Yes, it has to be done because the dress interview needs to be arranged. [[The president calls.]] And then it's just a fabrication, a fabrication from the roots. [[The president calls.]] It's all completely naked and the highest. The president can decide not to answer these questions, but then I'm going to keep asking questions. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u317	A respectable president. In this sermon, people have cried out a scandal for less reason than this. News reports on RUSV this evening are presented on the website: ▪Ramma program never mentioned in a dress interview. With the permission of the president, it says: "Gylfi Arnbjörnsson, president of the ASI, changes in the frame plan do not seem to have anything to do with the discussion or to be a special entry. [...] The economologists interviewed felt that there was no direct connection between the increase in energy consumption and the current panorama. It is obvious that this is some form of a follow - up explanation at the highest level. The prime minister who has now driven and shows that it does not contain a stone on a stone. There's hope for it. paritaprevir The palace of Þórhallsson's son will die here in the side hall and be heard into the hall. I would do the same if I were in his place, his council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u318	Madam President. Of course, it would be truly interesting to have the highest power. The prime minister here for the discussion, hearing him explain and explain the reasons why this proposal is in some way an introduction to human debates and their solution, even though it is revealed by the labour market that it has never been mentioned and is irrelevant to them. It's some kind of occult thing I think it's at the highest. The prime minister owes us an explanation. Does he have a plan up in memory that in some way this strange thing could solve the knot in a fight? Of course, it would be as informative to have the highest power. Industrial Minister to the discussion to discuss the new theory of power loss, that the country is running out of electricity. Now they have it here, one genius after another, that we're about to be out of power. [[The point is, it's been made...]] It's a hell of a situation. Yeah, but that was for other reasons, a thrill flutter. I think at least one of the highest. Counselors should be here for the discussion and try to answer matters. We know it's the highest. But isn't the government in such a state that someone else might be here to answer for it? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u319	A respectable president. Once again, the purpose of being here tonight isn't about the greater part that we get together to reason. If they were, they'd be the best. Prominently here or some of his spokesmen were to reason with us the points that have now been presented in the media, i.e. That this has nothing to do with the controversies, which, in fact, was obvious to me. If we're going to start using some evidence with or against it, I'm sure it's discussed in here, not just in the media. V.E.G. The prime minister then has a strong tendency to converse with us here through the media. This emphasizes that the objective here is to keep the council occupied while the smaller part has repeatedly suggested that we discuss something urgent in society, e.g. The quarrels, of course, are being taken. Instead, we are wasting time and wondering what the truth is. Prime Minister says. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u320	A respectable president. We have a case that the two departments say the adjustment of the motion conflicts with the law. We have a new proposal from a greater part of the employment committee that the Minister of the Committee does not support. We have one of the biggest issues in Iceland sooner and later. We have a case that repeatedly shows that those who have these instruments don't understand the laws and do not understand what they're doing, appear to be, by making these adjustments. Is there any hope that you will ask, why is this part of the program? Why don't we stop this nonsense and start talking intelligently? The Prime Minister is coming here and he's going to light it out of his grace why we're talking about this, and that's because of a bargain deal. The following day a headline shows that the frame was never discussed with collective agreements. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Expected the highest. Prime Minister to surprise the workers of the employment market, or what? [[The president calls.]] What was the test?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u321	A respectable president. I'd like to talk to you about the President's conference board and maybe a little bit of a charge for me. I had to run off the board earlier because we had a meeting on the environment and transportation committee, and I caught up with my breath because I thought I was next in a speech and I was hoping that there would not be a disturbance in this meeting for President. I just haven't reached the deepest, that's why I died here in a way that someone would abuse it. But I don't think that we should belittle one another even if we have a problem with this matter. I'd especially like to commend the Pirates for that. I held this meeting because it was mentioned earlier because it was requested from the government opposition to have men attend the meeting. I thought it was necessary, considering that we only found until ten in the morning, that the arrangement has been changed, that there would be meetings here, like the other committees, and we had a date in the last term, this was the plan. [[The president calls.]] But I'd like to say something, and it's time for a respectable president. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] Here is a material discussion, but only two material talks have been made available today. [[The president calls.]] That's not a normal, respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u322	A respectable president. I find it interesting in this case that the present is the highest. The Environment Minister offered just one activation option, and then there is a greater part of the employment committee that throws in four others, but has now brought back a verbal adjustment. I'd like to speak to the highest. current agricultural and marine eco-efficiency minister on this matter. Why did he just offer one prime option? Is he okay with this arrangement and what's going on now? Why did he not offer all five benefits if it is the will of more part here, the government, and the greater part? That would be the minister I'd like to talk to. I don't know if it's any point to get the highest. Prime Minister here in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u323	A respectable president. Once again, members of the council come up and review that this is a violation of the law. Then I'd like to go over it by 3. these laws, as stated in the review of the Environment Ministry, say that a new programme is taking only for the activation of tasks discussed by the Management Board. It is also based on the fact that the Council does not take sides with other initiatives except those discussed by the Project Management Board. This does not mean that the Allied Council is bound by the proposals of project management or Minister for the classification of activation initiatives, but only by law No. 48/2011, including a professional assessment of national activation initiatives. The project management reports: ▪ As described above, it became clear in the autumn months of 2013 that a project government would only deal with professional attention on the three priming options at the 13th of the year. An excellent assessment of these three options is presented in the report on the project management - why. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall shakes his head over it. The truth is the most angry, but it stands here. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] This is exactly the same as it was done here during the last terms, exactly the same way, unless it was the Minister who carried out the changes, now it is the General who performs exactly the same procedure. [[No.]] [[No.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] It puts the matter in the background and then makes its own decision about these changes. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u324	The president asks members of the Parliament to respect a talk period and not speak two people at the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u325	A respectable president. This is the third material case that's going on today, except for all the talks being held here for President's conference board. Hv. Gunnarsson I was the second, and I was the third. We started this meeting at the end of the day. 10 this morning and this has been a number of talks on the President's conference board, which I must admit to having been nothing more than a material discussion on this subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u326	That's not true.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u327	I think that's what I'm thinking... A respectable president. Can I have a silence from the government stand? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[There's been talk. (Pray forward.) The conference hall has been discussed.]] The conference hall has been discussed.) I believe it is true that the prime committee will review whether this proposal for the President's conference board is in accordance with the body of Congress. I believe it violates the rules of the President's conference board. The main reason I'm coming up here in a talk - I can see that there's trouble in the councilroom, boy. paritaprevir Bjarkey Gunnarsdóttir runs out -- is that I wanted to come and support my ministers in particular, the highest. Magnúsdóttir Magnún. She has held many fine speeches under similar circumstances today, but she has expressed her view that she is in line with the activations in the lower part of Þjórður. She reasoned that the project management of a Framework Programme had examined them and presented them. They were largely carefully researched, as she put it, and then directed to the project director that they might have needed only a hair full - scale search. I think her assessment is entirely in harmony with the laws of law, No. 48/2011, about a protection and energy efficiency programme. I'd also like to say that I agree with a minister of the Hag Lake, that proposal isn't fully investigated. I disagree with the view that this gives them a basis for the matter to return to the committee. I simply think there is a vote on these advantages. I think it's necessary, and I hope that this vote can be done as quickly as possible. However, I must say that I have also listened to the party, and there are quite many, who believe it is important that these activations be taken, and specifically referred to the environmental point; pointing out that sandflakes and other measures can be interrupted in this way. In particular, she mentioned in her talk that the Council's resolution can be submitted that this activation will be investigated specifically. Hv. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson's son spoke in his speech if I recall correctly -- why. Another senator corrected me - that we should not look much at what was done here during the last term. I don't agree with what. A senator, if I have understood him correctly, and I would especially like to refer to an opinion that came from ASI when a similar case was under discussion here on a committee. This is dated May 7, 2012, which says by permission of the president: It is the basis for the social well - being and better conditions of the people for whom the labor movement is active. I'll continue, including by permission of the President: THERE is a serious comment to the proposal for action as discussed here. Great changes in the proposal have been made since last autumn. Six activations: Impulse activation, Holtic activation, Uric acid reactivation, Skoryunda, Postparticle I and High-Service I and High-Progression II, under the rule of the Convention Regression Directive, are now classified as a waiting party. A waiting category is only expected to set the activation options since data are lacking to determine whether or not to place the relevant activation options in a protection category or utilisation programme. To ensure professional coverage, professional groups evaluated the quality of the data they evaluated. Were the quality food divided into four categories: A. Very good data, which is largely sufficient for environmental impact. B. Good data enough for the evaluation of a frame plan. C. Local data not enough for the assessment of a frame plan. Insufficient data for food. Data of three activation options, i.e. Impulse activation, Holtic activation, and Uryrofostic activation, now proposed to become a waiting party, had a full house of stairs (A) in all the trade groups. Thus, the evidence presented for the transfer of these products from a waiting category is not based on professional practices. The rationale for transporting the Scorpius, Chlamyactivation I, and Precinct II activation of a waiting category is that in professional work preparing a frame plan has not been taken into account the criteria applied to the establishment of a Water-Europe National Park. When available, changing the criteria for professional assessment is peculiar and is regarded as not acceptable practice. ASI considers it important for the General to protect the professional practices that have marked the great and long, preliminary work that is behind the framework plan. It is important that the wide scope of professional work that has characterised the entire priming process is not interrupted during the final stages of the work schedule. ASI thus recommend that the planned six activations be replaced by a waiting party for an allegorium. As I said earlier, this review is dated May 7, 2012. What I was wondering, and finding interesting, except for these harsh criticisms that come from ASI, it is believed that these laws were some kind of reconciliation. I've heard a lot of both government and government officials tore up here that they should try to make peace, even though most people realize that at some point when they don't get together, they just have to vote on things. However, I would like to refer to a talk. Svavarsdóttir Because I know that she has a lot of knowledge about this class and that I have used her there, although I may not fully agree with her about some things. In her talk, she says: Because peace will not be achieved in such a big matter, the plan was not intended to make peace. The final reconciliation will never be achieved on what to activate and what to use. Many of us feel that we have had enough, that's enough, that's enough use, that's enough activation. Many of us believe that much, much more can be achieved and that energy resources can be used without hesitation than has been done. There are also such opinions. No matter how good it is, a Ramma plan will never settle that view. They are there, they have been there, and they will be there. A Ramma plan was thought of as some common understanding of plays and on the basis of the findings. Perhaps the biggest important stage was the long process, which covers nearly 20 years, when the Law was given at the Council in 2011. Then she adds: ▪ When such a foundation is laid, we are not necessarily aware at the beginning of the problem of methodology, where we are going to go, where we will get into trouble, where we will agree, and where we disagree that the tool will benefit us as it should. I have worked hard to keep track of material discussions on this subject. I think it's important, and I know that many people, both in government and government, have a lot of good things to say. I seized this point because I agree with it in many ways, perhaps not entirely with the fact that a frame plan has not been designed to make peace. In fact, I think it was made with that in mind, that's my food after studying these laws. I'd still like to point out, because I was studying only the protection and energy efficiency laws, that in this paper, there's a lot of work being discussed here, the project management should be for advice only. I can't understand that word any other than that they should only interpret according to the words, that it is not that the mission government has the ultimate authority on what to move from a waiting party to a novelty party, etc. In fact, this caught my attention, because only here was a meeting of the environment and transport committee earlier, when we are discussing self-sponsored authority, that in these laws on the protection and energy efficiency of the programme, the Agency is, in fact, taken by the rural areas in one place completely. They must adapt to the decisions made by the General. I'm just saying this for fun, I know there's a lot of people around these matters, we've been kind of wondering where those boundaries are, and we've been able to interpret 78 percent. The constitution. At least in this law, which we may be discussing here in another way, is that once certain measures have been taken and if any group is identified, a community must change the main and shared structure accordingly. I find this interesting and it's that my friends in the Piranha are here in the Senate Hall, and I know they're trying to look at these arguments and think about them. I know that they have spoken a great deal for democracy and that the whole nation will be allowed to express themselves and their representatives. I specifically ask them to look at these arguments. Because I mentioned a speech here. paritaprevir And then, Svavarsdóttir, she says here: ▪ As when such a foundation is laid, we are not necessarily aware at the beginning of the problem of methodology, where we're going to go I am fully aware that there is a disagreement on the interpretation of these laws. I have my opinion, and I only tore them here at the beginning, but I liked what most of the employment committees say in their majority wing: A review of this proposal has raised questions in the greater part on whether to pause and consider reevaluating the process, even though the majority agree with the legal process. I'm convinced that if we can get over the major conflicts that have taken place in the councilroom in the past few days, more people may feel that it's okay and may have to wonder at least if the laws on protection and energy efficiency are not necessary, No. 48/2011, making adjustments so that we may not have this dispute. I've listened to the views of the head of the pro board. I think he's very supportive of his presentation. I have also tried to read a little, for example, a opinion that has come from councils, but I would like to say, however, that whatever human opinion will come to be, as in judicial cases, to be someone who will determine what things will be like. Here at the Council, it is simply the president of the Generals. He is entrusted with that authority in the Senate, and I've heard that many people are very at odds with them, and they are very conflicting with that conclusion. This is like when judicial cases are settled, especially for the Supreme Court; because it is the final outcome, it is very difficult for lawyers to come up and say that there is still a legal issue. The decision has been made, and whether one likes it or not, I think it is very important to respect that conclusion. That so I hope to, and I really mean it, that sooner or later the votes of these proposals can be voted. I think it all seems that the government has, quite frankly, promoted their views. I'm still begging the Presidency Committee to see if they're not being molested, and to court those who are great experts in them and point them in fear and excitement - I'm looking at my partner here. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson to check this out. I don't have that much more to say for now and thank you for a good sound in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u328	A respectable president. Hv. A senator went on to say that perhaps he would need to revise a convention creation, and somehow he would find out how - no, not a senator, forgive them, but he did not mention them by name, but he said that there was a need to see how it was possible for humans to talk all the time here. I wonder what's wrong. A senator sees that the lesser part would communicate its views if there were not much freedom of choice in this town, at the great General Assembly, that the members of the smaller section could complain as often as they would need to be heard. I know why. A senator was here during his last term, and he knows how all of this works, so I'm very interested in knowing how he sees to it that Congress jobs can be performed and changed by Congress without a state of choice of the greater part.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u329	A respectable president. During my last term, I had a lot of speeches on this, and I've heard what. A senator gives many good talks too. Of course, someone must be assured of the government, but the situation must be handled properly. She'll have to respect it. There's more to it. It has to be that way, and that's how it is in all democracies. In fact, I think the device used is hopeless, I've held a lot of talks and pointed it out. I think it is far better to think that a certain section of Congress can refer to national pay, as it were in other parts of the North countries, rather than to use every gap in the U.S. Senate to form a position in government opposition. I think it would be very good, it's been good in other parts of the North countries, the whip or the bleeding at the council, somehow everything else, and men are trying much sooner to get together. [[The president calls.]] Like here, people don't always agree with each other, and they just vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u330	A respectable president. Hv. A senator can trust that I know much more interesting and beneficial things to do with my life than to hang out here for the evening trying to make sense to a dignified president of the council program, long after night and even at night, so, of course, no one here is talking about his fun. We speak because we have so much to complain about, and we have no other way of getting our complaints ahead of a respectable president. When he ignores and more parts ignore, we have absolutely nothing else. I like to hear what you're talking about. A senator speaks of this specific route, sometimes called the dance route, which is that the less part can require a national fee. I believe the effects would be exactly the same as before. One senator noted that the conversation on how to conduct the work was done, much earlier, and much later, much more civilized, you expect. Then there is little more to ask in this context than whether it should be. A senator would support such a suggestion if it appeared at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u331	A respectable president. Yes, I would support such a suggestion. It was a form of a group here during my last term. I remember agreeing with them that, despite some obstacles to the administrative process, we should order the so - called governance. I thought that it was important, for example, to change that law. As may be tamed by one member of Congress, I'm going to have a word of caution about the process. I've seen a lot of different suggestions on how to do this. Some comfort me, others don't. It's all right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u332	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's speech. What I would like to ask him is, does he believe that a professional assessment of Uryrofos, Holite reticence, and Stockholm has ended? I think it's important to go. A senator will answer that question, and it is also important to keep in mind when he answers that here he speaks the chairman of the Environment Committee. This is what I would like to ask, because I feel that it is important to know if he is willing to go past a project management that is trusting only to suggest that Impulsion be taken to a novelty party. A respectable president. I would also like to ask if there are two minutes to respond when only three members of the council are fighting back. Is there only one minute per senator, can you respond?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u333	The custom is that when a senator falls in the middle of the word, it is a one - minute talk period for everyone, as is the custom for four members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u334	A respectable president. Maybe I didn't quite get a question. A senator, but I did hear that he was asking me about the professional food, if I thought there was an evaluation of the activations of the lower deck... [[Whether it was over.]] Why would it be over? I'm the opinion, as I said before, that the law makes at least the separation of the work to see if these activation options are to enter a Neo-continent party is sufficient to make a decision regarding the subjugation of the lower deck. I'm kind of going to have to refer to the opinion that I used to trace here. [[The president calls.]] I have to admit, I'm close to where I'm going. Environment and resource minister, that I watch this opinion, and then I listen to a discussion, and I try to weigh it and determine if it is also to be transferred to a novelty party. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u335	A respectable president. I would like to ask myself why. A senator would then have learned the latest opinion of ASI. He quoted a great deal of information published by ASI in 2012, but with permission of presidents, the ASI in its review of the current synonym: In ASI assessment it is essential that each of the activater options be managed by a project management, based on professional laboratory results, which should be proposed prior to converting individual activation options from one category to another. [...] The European Union of Iceland feels that it is important for the General to support the wide agreement on professional practices that have marked all work in the preparation of a national protection and energy saving programme and therefore suggest that the proposals of the Commission at any given time be respected. Takes it. In this case since 2012, is the opinion of the European Parliament acceptable to him? Has he studied the Common Association's opinion on the subject under consideration? [[The president calls.]] Does he want to respond?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u336	The President has done more research on the Senate. If a senator falls unexpectedly, another senator can take the place, so that if anyone wants to give the President a sign, he is now free of one space.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u337	A respectable president. No, I think it's very important that we all go over opinions. I don't make a difference between ASI's opinion right now and then. I've been found in the discussion, and that's why I believed to be old, that men were pointing out that the decision taken during the last term, i.e. ... tostripusetowait, if somehow it slipped through here. Actually, I think ASI is very similar. They talk about the peace that they think is supposed to exist in a frame plan, but I traced it as well as to the conclusion that it is their opinion that it is just not the case, that it should not be settled. Of course, we should look at all the suggestions, but after reviewing this old opinion, I still feel that the evidence referred to is ◯valdHow today and must be held up here during the discussion at least.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u338	Madam President. Hv. A senator must be in the present room discussing the reviews that have been received today. ASI supports the continuation of a routine and the failure of the framework, as well as the fact that it is clear. Hv. A senator came in to support his minister and to follow the priming skills he proposed and the passage of Hagah's water out there. But backs it up. A senator, then, won't he be the Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson, who solely suggested a whale activation? Does he rather support the head of the professional trade committee in this regard? It's a little strange that there's no way you can let the board understand that the task management is to discuss the benefits and provide specific suggestions for a minister. There's nothing more complicated than that. Has a what? A senator did not understand it after a careful study, as if I had no doubts about his actions? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u339	A respectable president. As with so many other things, I think that you can never put yourself in enough of things, into all the many things that come up. I tried my best to do so in this matter, thinking that I would give a speech that reflected it. But it looks like it's different to who. First of all, about ASI's opinion. ASI's on it now, because, of course, we're in the moment, that the work is not being done. In their early opinion, they also felt that there was no framework or law. In both cases, ASI felt that way, that's what I'm pointing out, because it's so many times during the conversation that it was all right in the last but it's not right now. Then I'd like to come to the second question. Of course, I support the current environmental minister. Of course we're in the present. That's the best. The Secretary of the Seas, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, has his suggestions - I also believe that the council has an opportunity to address matters and change. [[The president calls.]] The General is not a timer, and I've held many talks about it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] If that's what the Senator means, maybe we can't quite get together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u340	Madam President. The Council has the option to change the recommendations made by the minister before the year-end of Achievement, not by any other suggestion, but by just changing the proposal, changing it. I'd like to hear some attitude. The senator's view that the head of Project Management feels that the advantages they could not handle in the task management - when Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, U.S.A. Ministers, charged them with eight benefits and suggested just one - are not well studied. The group dealing with salmon in Þjóturðar did not trust to give their final opinion because it was not fully studied. That's just the way it is. Gonna go for it. The head of the environment and transport organisation, the person to protect the environment and the professional treatment in this case, is really taking greater notice. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson on these rather than on project management and its subsets? [[The president calls.]] Is it really so that he will? [[The president calls.]] Would he not, then, need to read more clearly in the evidence available, if so?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u341	A respectable president. I'm not sure if I should go over this discussion, whether the senators have done enough research, and so on. [[Up front.]] I've heard the senator's opinion of those things. I just have to say right now that I don't really listen to this senator any more than I do, but I try to listen to everyone and then make my own decision. [[Up front.]] We simply do not agree on the interpretation of the law, such as regarding whether the Committee may simply alter the proposal for Indomination. So I can't find a place in the law, and I went to the law and the report and the committee. How so? Just Aggressive, you're supposed to change that, how? Probably just throwing it out, that's the only way to make a change. [[Up front.]] They are being suggested to move the option from a waiting category to use and if this is as early as possible. A senator says, if they wanted to change, it's just to do nothing. I don't think it's like that. [[The president calls.]] I just have other opinions about that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u342	A respectable president. I'm gonna try to ask you some clear questions. First of all, I'd like to know what. Councilman: Were these adjustments discussed and agreed by the Council of the House of forwards before they were submitted and adopted by a professional committee? Second, I would like to ask if there have been a debate between the members of the administrations regarding the fact presented here in the hall at the highest level. Prime Minister, that this is the key to causing conflict in a job market? A report by the TV shows that a frame plan has never been mentioned in the current room discussion. This is what Hannes G. Sigurðsson, assistant director of the Association of Employment, and Gylfi Arnbjörnsson, President of ASI, feels that changes in the frame plan are not involved or are specific in the discussion. I said before that it has often been called a failure in the various matters. So I'd like to ask. A senator does not believe that this is a prerequisite for driving this issue at the council? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u343	A respectable president. First, I think we should keep a lamp in the council and try to do as many good things as possible. I know there are differing opinions on how this case works. I think it's important to go through. Other than that, I would like to say as little as possible about the silent conversation that takes place, but I'm concerned about the situation and I hope that it will be resolved in one way or another. With the first question, if I caught it, I know that the senator was trying to be clear, I think there's a possibility of making a suggestion. The head of the professional trade committee has not been discussed in the Congress of the Agency. I think it was reported in the media, I think it appeared at the Senate Hall, but of course we've been very well informed by our representatives on a professional committee. I can't see any better than they've tried to do as well as they can. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u344	A respectable president. Hv. In answer to what was said by a senator. paritaprevir My daughter's Magnúsdóttir Electric Rafney believed that in his speech he had tried to point out that what an separated government had done was wrong or wrong, so that would be the methodology here and now also. So I want to ask you why. A senator would be able to support this case, based on these grounds. He based this on his review of the ASI, the old, and the latest, where this is being said, i.e. ASI wishes that the process be maintained and not adjusted and left to the project management of this evaluation. A respectable president. I'd like to ask who, too. A member of Parliament whether he believes that men will turn here pretty cheerfully considering that letter given by the secretary of the Ministry of the Government, Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, sent to the project to the Management Board on these initiatives, in the Annex to a letter in June 2013? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u345	A respectable president. I traced an earlier opinion or review of ASI, and I wanted to help you to understand that as much as they now have the treatment, they were. However, after studying the law, I feel that both ministers and committees have the authority to change. That's my opinion after studying the laws that we have here for discussion. I didn't like them at the last term, but I don't remember that I had particularly feet in the way that it was done. I've fought here for people trying to make peace with the law and other things. This counter-election session is almost over, and I want to finish it with the words that, no matter what the case, hopefully we'll be able to settle the matter so that we won't have to stand in this piece of Alduke's sales. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u346	Mr. President. I thought the last word was wrong. The above - mentioned senator reflects the situation in which he discussed the importance of trying to settle such complex issues as what has been discussed here. The reason why there is no peace, though it may be. A member of the council has agreed with other opinions, that much of the members of Congress are convinced that the suggestion we now make is against the spirit that is found in the Law on a structure, to the point of the question. The members of the greater part of the work committee have not taken into account the professional views we are to await from the Framework Programme project management, that this is the business that we have agreed to as a body of Congress that we are going to practice, here we agreed on a proposal 63:0 to change the politicians. Part of what was based on that proposal was to listen more to professionals. In itself, I have not heard any evidence as to why professional people are walking around in this case unless they have to hurry to turn some professional bikes into action and there is somehow enough evidence to support the walking past professional processes. [[The president calls.]] This isn't the General Suite.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u347	A respectable president. There's talk of professionalism in this case. With these glasses, I again read over the committee's opinion more than a part of the job committee with a change in proposal. I can't see any better than it's a very embarrassing fact error. It says: ▪ The 2nd class economic management suggested that 67 benefits were organized into each of the three groups, i.e. that 16 activation options fell into the energy response category, 31 options for the waiting party, and 20 assets for the protection party. - Those are wrong numbers. So says the report: "There were six methods of activation taken from a waiting category... - After a process that was traced, perfectly legal and demeaning, in the latter opinion, but, in effect, six activations were moved from a company to a waiting party. In this section, if you can count that more of the employment committee seems to think that there are only ten benefits in the current energy protection and efficiency programme. They're 16. [[The president calls.]] Of course, you have to print it up, change it, because it's a very embarrassing fact error in a very important matter, and, of course, it describes how backward it all is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u348	A respectable president. It is interesting to be drawn up in these discussions, especially after a talk. paritaprevir The head of the Environment Committee, Þórhallsson's son, who claims to support his environmental minister, as he put it here in his speech. What exactly has the Environment Minister said? She has said that she prefers that a project management get peace in order to finish her business. She has said that she views the project management as a sort of wind, if I remember correctly, that should have many options to eat and that is consistent with what her predecessor, the highest. Minister Sigurður, Ingi Jóhannsson, suggested, which, of course, should be present at this discussion tonight, instead of a minister of the environment that has no house to attend. He was confident only to suggest one activation of the waiting transfer for use. So the political situation of the changes under consideration is very vague. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u349	A respectable president. I want to thank you. Guðmundur The Steingrímsson for pointing to this factism, which is another fact error in this discussion. He was one of those who joined in making this suggestion that Lake Hags had been a colony and had been suspended. There was now another senator who stated that this proposal told us that he had never studied the opinions of the Environment and Resource Ministry, where he says the process is not legal. So does the Organization and the rest of its members. No one seems to have taken any notice of this. The ignorance of the case is presented here in one speech after another by those who speak on the side of the superiors and even to those who suggest this proposal, unless one is deliberately wrong. A respectable president. Again, I would like to request that the matter be canceled while we wait for Prime Minister and he will make a statement to us about the statements made by the labour market earlier this evening.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u350	Madam President. I agree that it's desirable to have the highest. The prime minister to answer that question, since he has been the object of his unconvinced testimony here. I'd like to ask, because that's what happened. The head of the professional trade committee did not believe that this was an unsurpassed operation because new proposals had been submitted here today. Would he conclude, then, that we have been discussing an illegal proposal so far, if a new proposal was enough to make him feel that the proposal was not against the law? It is also sobering to consider what is needed, for example, by many ganglators in order to expand their income and increase their numbers in order to improve the interests of the public. Wouldn't it be interesting to be at the highest. The prime minister would explain this to us before we would give up the natural value below?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u351	A respectable president. It is unfortunate to say that in the leading section of the section, 16 activation options have been added to ten. It is true that 22 were transferred to 16. Now it's probably an honest mistake, but it's a mistake, and it affects how you see it. It is important to be clear in the opinion of the committee. This is yet another reason, or another example, that these matters clearly need to be considered better. The employment committee, especially with regard to the indications presented here repeatedly in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u352	A respectable president. I agree with the comments that have been made on the committee opinion of the greater part. This is an excellent explanation of the process, as it was during the last terms, and the committee makes no comment on how the process acted. However, it can be understood from the situation that the suggestion was made before an open narrative, 16 of which had been replaced, and then the number of them was reduced. This is something I'm pointing at. The job committee kindly considers that it is proper for the committee to consider at least no facts. I am very concerned with the position of the government's Environment Minister for the Congress of the Agency. It has repeatedly been observed that party members of the highest ranks. The minister of Sigrún Magnús Magnúsdóttir, Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, Þórunn Eglíl's Egilsdóttir, and now the last Höskuldur Þórhallsson, does not really support the minister's understanding of the importance of a frame plan being allowed to go through the council one traffic in order to prove its worth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u353	A respectable president. I used to go here for a subject talk. I got an answer. I had the opportunity to answer them. When they are finished, this will continue a material discussion in which almost every senator who has spoken before is referred to in my talk or read directly from the committee's viewpoint. [[Up front.]] This is nothing more than a continuation of material discussion, and this is a clear violation of what we are doing here. Every man sees that this isn't the way it works. It can't be that someone will come and give a speech, and then they can line up here in ◯Lane bner, and I'll pray for favors on this Danish note. But here comes why. The director of the left movement ▪ Green Pronunciation and directs the talk; he disagrees and makes comments. Hv. paritaprevir Guðmundur Steingrímsson reads up here; he has nothing wrong with saying about the President's conference board; he's just having a problem with what she says and wants to change something, and he's just doing something about the guy who gave the above speech. A respectable president. This is a total misuse of this team, and the Council's Presidency Committee has to intervene.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u354	President. In effect, I believe that the reason for putting this matter on the program - to keep stress free from trying to work together on a legal process - is that the government lacks time to complete the big issue, such as the stable tax, such as the housing system. It simply doesn't have time, and it doesn't want to go against other members of Congress... [[Up front.]] Go to the speaker's file, okay? Mrs. Vigdís Hauksdóttir. I think the thing is, the government isn't ready. That's why she just wants to keep us in the position of government busy trying to stop this situation so that the government doesn't have to ask itself to postpone the council. It's just that way. There are no big cases waiting, there is nothing here in the council, none of the business the government has promised. It's their fault.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u355	Madam President. I'd like to ask the president to make his meeting board firm and to take the matter from here on. The case is completely unappreciated. I can give you a few examples: the movers of the motion, or why. Senators of the greater part of the employment board, do not know the Law on Framework. They do not know the story behind a frame plan, apparently to be, and this has been shown in their case here during the last days. One of them, in fact, thought that Lake Hagah had ever been classed for use. They do not know how many activation options are used. And this is only a small amount of what has been discussed here. A respectable president. It's like the transitional proposal is controversial. The employment committee, the majority of it, is an irrational idea and extremely ill prepared.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u356	Madam President. It has to be concluded that the requirement for this matter to be canceled is a great deal to be taken away, that these facilities will be stopped. The evidence is so overwhelming that there will be enough, in this matter as such. In fact, I think we are at the same time at a critical turning point in the environment, and in some respects it may come to an end in this matter, but men may even realize. If we look back for about five or eight years, there have been positive developments in legislation and the development of the environmental rights. We introduced the Ásarús Convention, we legalized the Framework Programme. I hope we're getting a new protection law. The principles of the environmental rights were in place and are in the form of a new constitution with which a new constitution has been implemented. It's all for the better. But if this proposal is approved and if it succeeds, we're torn back on track. I don't know what, 10 to 20 years. Then the old handshake is taken back, and all the current professional attitudes about the environment, the precautions, and so on, just disposed of. [[The president calls.]] Is that what they want? Are they surprised that we are going to do what we can to prevent this, Madam President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u357	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Þór Thor Þórhallsson had a problem with us members of the council, that we were having a material case over the President's conference board. But he thinks it's okay. A senator, having a complete compromise with law, sees nothing wrong with skimming past them at a convenient time. V.E.G. The environmental minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir explained well in her day, shortly after she took over, that she wanted these benefits to be carried out by an assignment government that should take over these tasks. She also declared that she had to lie down in the grass before the wind. The head of the professional road committee and the majority of the employment committees. It's just that way. Such is the reality. It would have come out of her hands, and the council would have brought it. But that was her opinion. [[Up front.]] It's the truth, it's just truth and public, and it can be looked up. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] So I challenge it to him. paritaprevir I am Höskuldur Þór Þórhallsson's son to stand with his minister in this matter, in a professional process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u358	A respectable president. I've just come up with this team to talk about the President's conference board. I do it because I'm very unhappy with the President's conference board and how the President's Council has, in my opinion, been abused in this case. There's not been a consultation within the council on what to do, and I've come up here to explain many arguments and obvious reasons, in my opinion that this matter should be canceled. Those comments are presented by a man who is in charge of the President's meeting board. It is certainly the right president to answer no questions, put in no career other than what we see here today. Then it is my right also to come up here again in this minute that I get to make comments and to express my dissatisfaction. I'll do it because I'm not happy with what Congress's like. I'm not talking about this matter materially. The last time I came up here to read from the committee's opinion because it has a very damaging fact error, which is even more reason for us to cancel the program. A greater proportion of the employment committees seem to maintain and clearly maintain according to their committee's opinion that there are only ten innovations of the newcomer class, which are 16. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So much of the employment committee doesn't even know the law, he doesn't even know the current national protection and energy prevention programme.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u359	A respectable president. On October 3, 2011, at a public assembly, a chairman read from a letter from a State Accounting in order to prove his point because he felt that he had been inclined in the preceding discussion. The other one. A senator named Höskuldur Þrídur Þórhallsson does not have a very high power to fall into this discussion if people play with his talks on the President's conference board, so I'm going to ask for the problems of this crisis. A senator who is, we can say, rather than any other guide in what way to go to the President's conference board. A respectable president. I'm gonna take this opportunity to say why. paritaprevir Þórhallsson, in his earlier discussions on the President's conference board, was also mistaken because he claimed that the government had called for a sort of emergency meeting with visitors for a dinner break on the disposition of Reykjavík International Airport and his organizational issues. [[Up front.]] That's wrong. That's wrong. Simply put, this meeting, the guest meeting, and the circus around it were the responsibility of the Chairman of the Committee, why. paritaprevir Höskuldur the Þór of Thor-hor.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u360	I didn't say that. ...very false.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u361	The president asks why. Councilmen to take two men's voices aside.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u362	V.E.G. President. I'm a little like children. I like to hear the same things over and over again. It doesn't bother me at all. [[For example: Children learn from it.]] - That's the difference. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] But even though I enjoy listening to the same things over and over again and maybe I learn from them at some point, I'm surprised to see why. paritaprevir The Helgi of Hrafn Gunnarsson is still discussing the President's conference board, for he declared yesterday that he had become very tired of this debate over the President's conference board. I know that the Piras are particularly interested in the democracy, more than others, and have reached the nation's approval from the shoes, so you wonder why they don't want to stop this argument about the President's conference management and take the material discussion instead of always doing this and even, because I know they're also interested in further politics, talking less about the crazy calls and mobs, everyone who disagrees with them. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u363	A respectable president. One of the many things that both I and many others have complained about and protested is what is called the fermentation of the greater part, that is the concept of men from the wave line. A senator knows very well, especially when he's fighting for democracy, the more part he's afraid of, the more part he is afraid of. This may be because they know how the greater part can exercise its power if he is allowed to hold it strictly and unopposed for four years, which is certainly the case at the end of the total election. One of the big democracy problems in Iceland is that despite having 40% members of the council, the situation has 0%, except one, that is the freedom of speech. It's the only power that reminds us of the Council. In the meantime, the lesser part must use the tools he has to get his way. This is not news and should not stumble anyone who knows. The solution to this is more democracy, and I have considered solutions in that subject many times, shall be glad to do so in a different way than here in this pontu if any. A senator is interested.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u364	A respectable president. I'm worried about the state of the environment in Iceland. I'm concerned that Iceland's Environment Minister status is very weak, and she does not have material and objective support for her language. I am concerned that the chairman of the Environment Commission, the head of the World Health Committee of the Generals, is primarily concerned with complaining about the freedom of the council and complaining about members of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u365	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u366	That members of Parliament have restated their argument that this matter is to be taken off a program that some of the material give reason. A senator, chairman of the Council's Natural Protection Committee, has reason to complain that the members of Congress speak.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u367	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u368	And this same senator supports more than a part of the professional committee and also supported the fact that the case would go to his own committee, because he does not even protect that party. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] How sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u369	A respectable president. It will not be said too often in this public discourse that we are discussing the meeting program with regard to Presidential conference management because the subject on the program is unacceptable. It doesn't work out. That's unacceptable. Therefore, this is discussed over and over again because the smaller part has no other tools, tools, or resources to point to this. The fact is, one activation, Impulse activation, has been through a professional assessment of a project administration with a long and extensive history. It has been discussed in the government, in the administration categories, in previous discussions at the council, and then there are four or actually three activations that have not gone through this process additionally entered without any professional conclusions, without the review procedure proposed by the Framework. That's why it's unacceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u370	President. I'd like to answer a few questions. paritaprevir The surprise of the son of Níelsson was defined in the Morning Press as a member of the Convention of the Extension Party in the extremely difficult report of the Daily Evening Press on Council Committee. First of all. The system here at the council is very defective, the council is defective. There is no desire for the greater part to adapt to the no one's inner work, so, of course, we cannot promote politics when both sides are at work and when the president is down. A senator declares that the greater part is in charge. And we, in the smaller part, have a very strong experience that the more part, though only technically, is more part, not real, more things, speeches, and just goes their own way. [[The president calls.]] Then politics cannot be improved, unfortunately. It's your responsibility.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u371	Madam President. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir requested that the president interrupt this meeting until the highest. The prime minister would have come here to review with us why he claimed that it was important to complete this matter and accept more or more adjustments. The employment committee, where it has been identified as a standard letter, testified that this is part of a workforce solution. V.E.G. Mr. President has not responded to this wish, but I reiterate it to the highest order. The president will see her and call her the highest. Prime Minister here in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u372	A respectable president. There's a slight misunderstanding here. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir mentioned in a talk that I had said that the government had called for an emergency meeting. We then went over it exactly what I said, and I'll bet you I could have said it more clearly, but we didn't quite agree on the meaning. So that's how it is, I'm gonna try to explain this out, that Katrín Júlíusdóttir wanted a party to attend a meeting to cover the airport, which I think is very important. I thought, however, that in view of the short-term treatment of members of Congress, the need to hold such a meeting immediately, something like that was like this. [[Up front.]] But for the sake of the word "woe." Svavarsdóttir I have not complained that unless the senators speak, when I feel that they are violating the rules of Congress. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] To continue a material discussion after a senator finishes his speech, quoting his speech, I think it is most unfair. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]] I think it's very unfair. I agree with that, if I could now finish my case without any intervention, it's just that we have to respect the Senate and how it's set up. [[Up front.]] [[Balds of laughter in the chamber of Congress.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u373	The President reminds me of why. The members of Congress are to respect speech class.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u374	A respectable president. I'm not going to get tired of coming up here and making comments about it when it's wrong. Councilmen Steingrímsson Steingmursson and Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir claim that there is a violation of the law.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u375	That's right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u376	- That's right, the vice president of the United States calls in. Then I encourage them to, these things. Councilmen, to present a legal opinion that supports their serious accusations. They have been used by the Ministry of Environment or by a review. The Department of Environment says nothing about this. In fact, it is highly supported in its opinion that in connection with the activation of the lower part of Turbulence, the law is being carried out. When people make such serious accusations, a respectable president, they might as well be asked for some legal opinion in support of them. [[Up front.]] - That's not true. In the history of the Environment and Resource Ministry, the exact opposite is made, clear and settled. [[The president calls.]] I encourage people to make this a little more perplexing than ever before.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u377	Madam President. Because of the last word. The speaker, I wasn't going to get into the material discussion here, but I have to point it out in the memory of the Environment and Resource Ministry, which includes the Hague Lake and Tank, that it's not relevant for the committee to suggest these two advantages, Hagag Lake and rock age, just to be maintained. But I came up here to forgive myself that I'm not having a meeting with President. What I did earlier in my case was that, of course, it is relevant to the President's conference board if we are discussing a case that is neglected in the way that has been used in the material speeches, neglected. Here's some differences, not just the legal value of the proposal. First and last of all, this disagreement is about the Al Hallis work, which I thought, in fact, was that we'd all agreed to correct it. Here is a clear view that it would be reasonable to wait for the results of the task management on a frame plan before the General talks on the subject. It's about working, and it has to do with the President's meeting board, what subjects are being planned for, and whether it's simply natural that any matter taken on the council program, even if this is a misuse of them. [[The president calls.]] This is the President's conference board, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u378	Madam President. Hv. The head of the professional road committee should know as well as I do that the lower part of Thunder is not fully explored. This was shown by the director of a professional group and project management that it was not. I would've thought that it didn't have to be disputed. There's a legal opinion in a memo that's reported on this issue from the Environment and Resource Ministry, so much. The head of the professional road committee should not waste his energy on being constantly taxing. I'll make it my wish to have the highest. Prime Minister here. I think it's time to get a minister here to review the situation. A stone's standing over a rock is already not the case. Prime Minister that this is an introduction in a dresser's conversation. I agree with what you're saying. paritaprevir Oddný new Harðardóttir wishes to have the highest order. Prime Minister, come here already. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u379	The President wants to tell you what. Councilmen on the fact that invitations have been reached the highest level. Prime Minister that his presence is requested here in the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u380	V.E.G. President. Hv. The members of Pirata, the Helgi Gunnarsson and Birgitta Jónsdóttir, have been justifying regular and repeated for many days because of the importance of the lesser part's impact, the smaller part's having some impact on material conclusions. I agree with that. But sometimes you hear these same members of Congress and many other members of the United States fanciful - yes, yes, we are, you always talk about the President's conference board, repeated in the media and in other parts of the press, on national regulations, on all matters, or on most matters. [[Wait, you're not...]] [[Up front.]] What would be the position of the lesser part, what would be the situation in the less part of the material outcomes of a national law? [[Up front.]] I'd love to know. [[Up front.]] She's not much. But it is suddenly important here, that the lesser part affects the decision. Of course, it can have an effect through material discussions and arguments. [[The president calls.]] But the lesser part has nothing to say in this great democracy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u381	A respectable president. We repeatedly came up to see about the President's conference board to point out that this case is not being held in church. I cut it down in my Höskuldur Þórhallsson. paritaprevir That he spoke of another assembly and of the conduct of men there was in Derhall's heart. I'm not sure of anywhere in any other nation council, such as. in the North countries, the program stays out of the way for several months, but not so that members of the council may see on a day's notice what is going on. Of course, it's about men who initially write and put it before the council, all classes, what subjects will be on the agenda, and then we can prevent this kind of mess that we're in here, that we know in advance. But if you can't even talk to one another, if the more part can't even talk to the smaller part, don't even try it, just assume that the smaller thing is inconsistency, it doesn't matter that we change the course of Congress, because it just doesn't change anything. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u382	A respectable president. I spoke of it earlier this morning under this point that a structured program is discussed with all other parts of the program, but it is exactly the one on the program and the one to discuss and have been standing to discuss the past week. In fact, there is talk of a frame plan for the President's conference board, in the council's work, in inquirys for ministers. That's a clear violation of the Senate, a respectable president, like a dog. paritaprevir Höskuldur the son of Þórhallsson went over here. In my opinion, it is something the prime committee must take in at their next meeting and make it clear to the people what they are discussing under the President's conference board. A total of 1,370 annual talks have now been held in charge of a meeting president, 1,370 talks. [[Up front.]] Everybody knows this isn't working. This is so fucked up. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u383	Madam President. Well, here comes the number three thousand and one, if that's it. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has not been speaking with him.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u384	1,371.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u385	I think that's a totally shiny idea for a dog. paritaprevir The armored son of Níelsson is going to solve this problem by shooting at the people to see if they want a frame plan destroyed. I don't worry about the results of that vote. [[Up front.]] Otherwise, it should not surprise anyone that much is discussed here on the President's conference board. It's simply because there's a large, still unwieldy disagreement about the program, about the meeting, about how the president handles his program. In addition, the debate is to be taken up under the cover of a certain but very controversial decision that this may now be arranged by a major body of Congress, but likely in a gray area, it is released. However, is the decision against legal evidence that comes more from two than one department? [[Take it up: wrong.]] So the issues here are not just debates about content and content, they are on the agenda, they're on lawsuits, they're about legitimateness, and they're about work. And where should it be discussed with the chairman of the council anywhere other than in discussions about the President's conference board? [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u386	A respectable president. Because of what? paritaprevir The armoured Brynjar of Níelsson was discussing Pirata, who apparently seems to consider this case one of the most important things that has been present in the Parliaments, and at the council hall is now that all of them are being discussed here, without anyone representing Porta, attending one of the meetings where this matter was being discussed, I think I'll remember that completely right, and interviewing the members of the Committee. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] There were about 70 of them in this important matter. Hv. Councilmen of the government must find other legal data but legal benefits from the Environment and Resource Ministry because it is in fact useful that we are not limited to the classification of activation initiatives but only to the law of No. 48/2011, including a professional assessment of activation options and land areas. The report on the project says that the only benefits for a professional evaluation are for activation in the lower part of Þrjörg. [[The president calls.]] You have to look for other legal data, stop this crap here that they're breaking the law and tie your case to something that doesn't work. You must begin to accept the truth of this matter. [[To the point: truth!]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u387	A respectable president. This is District Meeting number 1373 of the New Year's Summit for the President's Summit. There's something remarkable that came out of the question. Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, he believes this point is designed to discuss the Council's program, various prognostications, various legal subjects. A respectable president. I think the senator is downplaying members of Congress, I think the senator is trying to downplay the members of the presiding committee, since it is the work of these parties to plan a program, there to be approved, as has always been. Now these meetings have arrived at the Hall of Congress and discussed with Presidential conference director. A respectable president. I just don't understand what's going on with this team, except for all the speed talks that have been given here for over 1,370 times that are actually about the box. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u388	Madam President. That was interesting here for the rest. I think the last speaker should study the Senate, what they represent, and how to follow them, because if what was attributed here does not belong under this team, I'll ask the senator to read the Senate again and maybe talk to the general staff who she believes will be able to study them better. A respectable president. In fact, it is becoming unbearable to stand here and listen to people's differences in understanding and to say that they cannot study matters despite not being able to attend meetings. I think that many people have been sitting here at a council hall from the beginning of this case and read very beneficially without attending a meeting of the employment committee. I haven't done that, but I think I've been able to read a considerable bit about the matter and more, that I think, but many others who sit on a greater part of the employment committee and other members of the council, a respectable president, who will expect to accept this here in the end. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to know how well they were familiar with this case and whether they've received much and more detailed information from only the head of the employment committee or anything like that, because that's not enough, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u389	Madam President. Because of the exchange of words in recent discussions, that would be why. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir to realize, for example, that the Council's Presidency Committee is not a multi-organized government but, on a very limited scale, and on a very limited scale, as well as the president is in charge of the council and has the program. The work that is behind the process of frame planning from the start, but especially from the legalization of methodology in 2011 and the work during the last term is quite remarkable. There is no doubt that in it there is a big step forward in the management of this area, people follow the procedure and respect the law. The tragedy of Iceland is that we were about 20 years after, for example, our neighbors in Norway, using this methodology, and we can wonder if the hard conflict in years past had not been reduced if we had previously legalized such a difficult process and had been convinced to try to reach the best professional conclusions in terms of these problems. I believe that the work during the last term will be carried out in all ways when it is considered, regardless of what books say or quoted from them. I watched quite closely the process as president of the second administration party and admired the work of the existing environmental minister and then the industrial minister and how well and effectively those cases were brought to completion, presented, and handled at the end of the council. It is the heavens and the sea between what was then going on and how faithful and committed men were the law, their spirit, and their methodology, and what is to be done here. And even if there were no other factors than that at the council, it will only be necessary to withdraw the basic differences between this or the other, that nature will be allowed to enjoy the doubt if he remains, if he lacks information and data, if well-founded comments of that kind appear in the process. It's called that nature enjoys the doubt, but I know, of course, that here in the wall there are still ancients, unfortunately, who do not want the methodology or the thought. How difficult it has been to legalize the environmental rights, let alone bring them into a constitution, perhaps explaining that we are so badly placed in Iceland to this day, in 2015, that we have dinosaurs among us, not in size, but in our attitude, who only want the old times of the environment. Armored wrangle. paritaprevir In this case, Jón Gunnarsson's son is no more than an old time in which hand force should be used in behalf of blinding contour schemes, and nature must be left behind. Other interests are involved. There are some other reasons for protection. The interests of tourism, outdoors, and future generations come to an end because this situation is not economical, as I hopefully have time to come in later. Mr. President, these are sleazy tactics, and they're not meant to be tolerated. I'm just going to discuss some of the initiatives that are under here because it matters, and I'd like to argue, although it's not my job to do professional work, because none of these advantages, and hardly even Involvement is still to be done in final categories. Let's take the activations from the lower part of The wound and ask: What's the situation there? It is based on more than 10 years of age, soon 15 years of age, a long-term old environmental assessment for both Holtization and Urcratic activation. They all acknowledge and see what they've been looking at. Since then, men have tried to add to their knowledge and to their research, but they are still lacking. That's the result of the project management. In terms of the fishing industry, it is appropriate to remind the wild salmon stock in Þrjódra is one of the largest and strongest salmon stocks in the North Atlantic. We caught it above ten o'clock. The salmon in Þjórötur and the Side Rivers in 2013 It is a vastly increasing seabed up the river, and in the Þjótur, it is localized stocks, pinks, heavyurries, and snarls, so it could continue to be counted. It is a complete, unique, and highly valuable life - styles. There is a feeling of complete uncertainty as to whether alleged counter measures would be helpful. They have been successful in some parts of the world, but nowhere in the world has they been tried to create seagulls or to save walking fish earth wide. It would be an unknown phenomenon, pure experimental activity, and everyone knows that it can lead to both hopes of success. In Holtization, all the largest and most valuable habitats in the Þjótur, since it is there in the upper region, in the calm zone from the B spray, and down under the Urfras, all of the habitats. There's Calfjörður, the biggest fishing river in the upper zone, and probably an important mother for salmon in Þjórður. What would it be like if I was to be built on the basis of current designal ideas of Landic activation? Thus, all the water goes down the eastern river River and is taken up on the Akway, while the western bases, the great heifers, the Murney farms, will be empty, so that when the flows go down from 300 to 4,400 cubic feet [300,400 cubic meters] to perhaps 10 cubic meters [10 cubic meters] of land induction offered to have left them there, the overcoming activation will be dropped from the Okks and on the autumn when these surfaces are filled, hundreds of cubic meters will drain down that channel. Otherwise it stands empty. You can't make it, it'll blow out, and where the salmon live as well as the sealight and the pink? Should he eat sand and breathe air? No, he won't. It is absolutely clear that all of the activations of lower October, of course, and of course including the top, are extremely risky environmental impacts in this sense. They are. To be honest, I was beginning to believe that people would no longer think of going to Urrass because it's the base of the world and it's destroying everything. It's just that way. What's the situation at Hague Lake? It's not studied well, there's been constantly changing ideas about how to update it. Then people come here and say it's so useful against a sandstorm, it's going to contain it. Yeah, but don't most of the ideas go out that Lake Hags are going to be industrialised, with a swing of between 5 and 10 feet [10 m] in a water table? What does that mean? This means that the clay gets dry in the spring. Then there'll be sand and clay as never before. On the other hand, if water is stable, the activation is greatly reduced to a greater degree and becomes more adverse, so hunting is not given to the environmental benefits and all depends on the kind of activation involved. With regard to rock - mass, it can certainly be claimed that such below the earth does not cause much environmental activity, but it is in the middle of the highlands, and what will follow it? High - power lines and roads soar up under the pain of hope beneath the heart of Lake Bay and the Middle East, and then it's beginning to be shortened north, isn't it? At the beginning of the study, there is strong evidence to consider how much better it would be to start off with all the four inducers and, in fact, five of whom I have mentioned. I have only mentioned the question about the national context of these things and, among other things, have been referred to by the Group of Tourists, which strongly opposes these practices. Why? Because this is not in harmony with human ideas about how we protect ourselves and try to use nature moderately - for what? The largest industry in Iceland at the turn of currency and a great deal of money is now coming from year to year. I figured it out in my hands and actually put it in a newspaper article that people can read if they want on the website the core of how these cases are seeing in 2015. The small estimates of this year's cost-of-the-moment income will be 350 billion travel services. It has grown by one 27% for the first four months of this year and by 20% plus the last three years. She's become the biggest user in currency. She leaves about 80% of her earnings in the Icelandic economy so that this year's entire cost - money industry will probably be about 280 billion. If this year's fishing export works out better than last year, its gross income could be some 280 billion. He leaves a similar ratio so that his net income could become 225 billion. But what do we get from the aluminum? What do we get from the big business? Yes, if we assume that this article will also do a little better than last year, maybe about 230 billion of the gross payoffs will be left behind in the Icelandic economy. That's 80 billion. That's 80 billion to 280. This standard is lenient between tourism and industry. Is this not a sacrifice of greater interests for my own, completely contrary to the clear comments of the nation's largest or most valuable sectors in this regard? May I remind you that if there's something that's economical now and long into the future, it's a currency fee. Or what is the problem of delinquency? To overcome him, we need a positive payment. We need all the money we can make for ourselves, preferably at the minimum cost and investment. It is a great advantage for tourism, and it is shocking to hear the big business as you look at it in the light of the current situation. Where have these men been in at least three recent years, where have they generally been since completing basic school when they speak of such matters, whether in an environmental or national context? I was going to have a few words on the theory of the power outage. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and good if not before. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir has been up here with us, it's so terrible that there's no electricity. I've never done that. I don't know that nobody has been dismissed, and there's been a lot of money being added to the electricity production of the past losses and prospects, knowing that it will continue on the next loss. The situation was followed by an expansion of Hellishe activation during the last terms, with a marked increase in efficiency. Now I don't remember the whole phase, but she's supposed to be able to go up to 300 megawatts if she's run in full swing and a lot of it's been added in recent years. Now she's getting steam from the Whoville, and as I know, that means she'll start running again, and her production will increase by a few dozen megawatts again. Cervical activation, activation of 92◯95 megawatts, was beneficial for one or one and a half years ago. She was supposed to stand behind the expansion in Straumsvík, but now Rio Tinto Alcan has declined but a small portion of that energy, which has thus been available for other negotiations. It has begun to build Theistarinactivation, and it will be implemented within two and a half years by 45 megawatts, thus allowing it to be offered and set apart at two times at the same time so that land activation, if so, very quickly double the production there to 90 megawatts and on many more enlargement opportunities. Enlargement of Breasing is more and less ready to be carried out, highly economically, not in any environmental dispute, leaving very little additional. It can reach 120 megawatts, if I recall correctly, even though the annual production of gigavats does not fully reflect the way it will be used. With the activation of the carburetor, which I do not know better than that, in the sense that there is no reason to believe that there is a need for some extensive environmental assessment or so forth, a number of megawatts will be added. Is not land induction preparing a 100 megamillary park, even more than two, one on the Sea of Burgundy, and the other in the carburetive process? If that is the case, at least everything is wrong. Then there's the enlargement of the Coreacle following the enlargement of Thematic Impulse Impairment, and thus I could continue to count for a long time. These are just the priming factors that will be used under the direction of land induction. Since then, though, several small inducers and older inducers have grown. These include the use of soft - hair activation, which was recently improved and expanded. In addition, there are activations in the Tyrannium of 2 megawatts and several private windmills. It will gather when it comes to the end, the reality is that there is no electricity shortage in Iceland, and negotiations have been made or negotiations have been prepared with relatively many intermediate users of energy. It is true that not all can be met quickly. We can't take on the two of us, three giant barriers, but it seems to be the idea. And then I'll come back to the ide. What is being presented to us in this talk? They're saying: "Let's go back to the old time where there was always enough energy and preferably in advance for anyone who wanted to come and buy it cheap." It has been a joy to see that the market has changed from selling to becoming a seller's market. It's fine, it's good for Iceland that there's more demand for energy, but we're willing to sell at any given time because it's the price and that's when we're in a better position. It's the environment we've been wanting to get into, but no, now the main spokesmen say, "Let's go back to the other situation. " We're supposed to activate a lot more, so we're going to have to over-exploit energy, which we're going to have to sell by discount. That is how thinking is expressed. Besides, they don't even know the facts. The most serious thing about this is that there is going to be a structure here that is clearly a violation of the spirit and the law of a framework. We can argue about the legal gray region, but it is absolutely certain that this is in opposition to the spirit of the law, which is based on the best available information and a careful professional assessment that has been completed by qualified experts, but it is not relevant today. [[Take it up, like...]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u390	Just like in...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u391	It's a war operation that brings us backwards. All the environmental organizations in this country are opposed to this, outdoor groups and tourism. [[Foreground on, don't want to...]] Tourism is against this and a lot of other people to listen to. I think the workforce's members are more and less opposed, too, because they realize that this will damage the atmosphere and reduce the likelihood that, in a reasonably peaceful manner, something will be grouped up in the coming years for innovation, as this will all blow up and put us back in time. This is bad news in the sense that instead of moving forward in the right direction, e.g. with the new nature protection laws taking place with environmental precautions, e.g. by finally getting the principle of the environmental rights into the constitution, we've suddenly turned off and moved back in the opposite direction, into the old handshake. It won't be easy, because there's more to it than just the compromise in this one matter. I'm asking those in charge, those who are receptive, to think about. Do they want the government they support or plan to support in history a reputation that has torn Iceland back into these areas, that it has completely corrupted the fragile peace that was tried, among other things, to create by the process of staging? However, we were together trying to get in the right direction. And may I remind you that the law was adopted without law? There was, however, great peace in moving over to this methodology. There is a great deal of respect and respect for the president, and the greater part must start to take it seriously that it is a great deal behind our demand that these adjustments be removed from the program and remain the whole matter and that they will not be given up without a struggle.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u392	A respectable president. Thank you. A candidate for a brilliant talk and of a very important reason that included what is at stake when it comes to these activation options, what nature's value is in the game, and what we are talking about. In front of you, sir. The head of a professional cartographer who believes that a professional assessment of these activation options has been conducted, and there is a conflict that is drawing up a little bit here, it seems that the followers of this proposal feel that a professional evaluation has taken place, and I would like to ask. A senator how he understands these words in his report: The results of a projection board also show that they believe that a decision to take on Holtic activation and Urras reactivation will need to be provided for information in the area where there are traces. [[The president calls.]] How does that make sense? To make a decision on the matter possible, a senator uses the expression "How Would You Answer? " Can those words be understood in the report so that professional judgment has been completed? Well, maybe. A senator drew light from his viewpoint on this?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u393	I think the above - quoted wording and the conclusion that a minister's project management should speed up the opinion of the above is clear. Still, a task management concludes that it is not time to interfere with the category of costs, that they continue on a waiting party. They speak more clearly than anything else for a project management. I can just admit here that I was happy, including Because it made me feel like I've been knocked down the lawsuit since my last term that it was not the right decision to bring the lower part of Þrjörður to a waiting party. The current task management has, in effect, agreed and confirmed that there is no further research and information on the lower part of the winter and that it is not time to determine their final classification. It crystallizes in this process and is fully confirmed by the way the task management produces for the minister and the more, the highest. the local Environment Minister agreed, and he suggested only Aggressive Enforcement. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u394	V.E.G. President. Right, I understand the same thing. I can't understand this report from the Minister himself other than that it's saying there's a lack of data and information to make a decision about Holite activation and Urcratic activation. There is no reason to say that professional evaluations have taken place. It hasn't been established. We're gonna go for a second. A senator is now sitting in a financial and business committee together, and he was careful in his speech on the economic connection with these ideas. It was claimed by the highest. Prime Minister that it would be necessary to activate in order to increase the value here. I agree with what. A senator, there are a number of other ways that are so obvious today in the community to increase valuables, and it can in fact be said that society's problems are relatively possible to overfish. [[The president calls.]] How can you tell? Senator that these activations all come in one dust, I'm not talking about if they're also lawless, into the economic environment? Are they necessary at this point?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u395	Mr. President. My answer is that if we were to add considerable additional resources and investments into activations of the next loss and more industrial plants to buy them energy, we'd better start thinking about what we'd like to do. If we were to repeat the risk of overfished years, would we not be able to make it a matter of time for the GVP to be pushed into the economy in a few losses, an investment of about half the land's production if I remember correctly? Of course, all foreign experts scratched their heads and asked: "How will you prevent it from forming in the economy by injecting these overexploitive investors into the existing expansion? The same could be true in our case. Don't you have one three carriers if you don't have four silicas, an expansion of the data plants and other small and medium-sized industrial instruments over the next few years, and, in any way, provide energy needed for this? Is that not enough for now? I think so, more than that. Then I'd like to say whether the professional evaluation was conducted that I would say it was over. [[The president calls.]] The point is, there is a professional evaluation of activations in the lower part of Turbulence that proved to be needed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u396	Mr. President. Thank you. A certain candidate for a very good talk received from a good knowledge of the language. V.E.G. The prime minister has spoken of the need for more activation than whale activation to achieve a pay raise and a level of subsidence, the need for a higher standard of living only by choosing a frame plan, throwing it out of the window, and sacrificing the highlands under road and electrical lines. Hv. A senator came to see that he did not like this old-fashioned employment policy, and I ask him to review it here with us what problems follow such a course, whether it is likely to be an increasing refugee that will stop by such a course and how this will affect the growing number of valuable jobs for young people in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u397	Mr. President. Excessive energy consumption, e.g. Inducation, in the first place, has the fault of always paying the lowest electrical price. The more energy efficient the level of activity is and the higher the rate of cost of energy consumption, the greater the price paid. That is understandable. It is becoming like chicken farms today, a factory production with very little production on the production unit, and so the factory needs to grow up to be huge in order to make money. Second, such structure leaves too little behind in the economy, 35% of our rolls will be left behind while our reporting, our tourism, the sea route, and the innovation technical sector, leave just a working position. This type of industry produces very few jobs as compared to investments. It belongs to foreigners, it wants to look abroad, it's purchased with expensive resources, etc. This is about the most ridiculous thing I can think of, mixing in discussions with low - paying employees, working people over their pay issues. [[The president calls.]] It's so shocking to think there's an introduction on that table.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u398	Mr. President. But it has now been found that there are not many others, at least of the labour market involved. But, second, second. A member of the council has a fine experience, and each man sees that we have a serious problem in the matter of Congress. It's hard for me to imagine how we can get the highest. Governments, or its leaders, to stop this discussion, promote reconciliation, and bring about important issues. See what? A senator sees how the problem of Congress can be solved, and the president has not proposed to solve it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u399	Mr. President. I only want to add our previous discussions about industrial development. I must not be understood by anyone who opposes the fact that here, for example, it continues to build up and develop a variety, and preferably as a high-tech industry, which in some respects requires energy. Of course, I think that the trend that has recently become very exciting, that we are going into the silicon or solar industry in some way, that there's data sets up here and one in that area, small and medium-sized enterprises are entirely by my cookbooks. We, however, have nothing to do with raising the old dweedy eyes. How should we deal with the lupus crisis in which the Senate work has taken place and with the problems that have flared up there? What does it tell you? Is it not just the ancient saying that there is a word first? You have to start talking. I shall be the prophet to say that this reality will come before the government class when they may begin to think that it is in their interest in them above all else that the council can do some decent work and accomplish something. [[The president calls.]] They are ruining themselves by being obsessed with this matter. If they're welcome, that must be their headache, not mine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u400	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, a fine talk. Among other things, a senator emphasized the best professional and professional findings. Of course, we agree, but I would like to ask. A member of the council from just what has already occurred about this knot we are in on this matter. I'd like to refer to the EEA's review, which says that the adjustment of the proposal under consideration as well as previous experience helped to clarify the defects of the process and that there would be a need to clarify the requirements for adjustment in the application of the council. [[The president calls.]] How can you tell? A senator visualizes such changes?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u401	Mr. President. That is a valid question, and it depends on what you can explain the roles involved. For example, I can immediately think of the fact that there can be no doubt about it or that there is no explanation about whether the professional process is over or not. It is a challenge to have an interpretation that it is enough that a project management has considered only activation to claim that a professional opinion has taken place. Although the project management has not completely completed the work, we could make it clear in the law that it is not deemed sufficient until professional groups have worked the groundwork and the project management themselves have reached final conclusions and that the professional coverage process is completed and can be organized. Of course, I can agree that it is in good time to review whether such factors can be reformed and strengthened by such factors. [[The president calls.]] The benefit of the situation now to mention someone is that we have time. There's no timeweight that drives us through this whole thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u402	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We are in a similar direction. I think it is inevitable to reevaluate the process in order to explain the formal requirements. I'd like to ask the second question, " How do I value this professional estimate? ' Hv. A senator spoke with great knowledge about the benefits of the lower part of Dura. I once again refer to the report, and now to the report of Landing. It shows that the data submitted by Holtic activation and Uric acid activation are well beyond the requirements in the frame management programme, end of environmental impact assessment for these activations. I'm asking why. Senator: What evidence should we have in this regard? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u403	Mr. President. Yeah, it was about Power Institute. I have to say, sometimes I've had trouble with things that have happened to her or with land induction, yes, over the past few days. [[For example, land induction.]] True, though, land activation has taken several research, but since the environmental assessment is being referred to, I mentioned in my speech that it is becoming 15 years old. I know exactly what kind of research the fish stocks were then. I don't think they did exist, registrations were very bad, etc. What a marvelous improvement that has been! They are now trying to ensure that everything is well recorded in hunting books, there are annual significant shifts and research checks, e.g. In the Philippines, where civilization has now cost a war counter and traps and has won a lot of work on this loss. I think most fishermen who know say exactly: It's good, but it's too late. Let's let this go on for a few years. Let's investigate this a lot better. That's what I think we have to do too. I'd also like to answer what else we can do, but then after the events, not in the shadow of disputes like this, but when quiet time was to settle over the process and look at it. I think we're supposed to unite in preparing well for the project management and the professional groups so that they can do their job in a very careful way. [[The president calls.]] For example, there is something about which we can be united.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u404	A respectable president. I can't agree to discuss why. A senator was good. I felt that she was full of double - skind and well - known phrases about the old merger - godwits and showed us that the senator always chooses to draw up new lines in these matters if his comments on the Three Inthsurgents here some years ago, in which he talked deeply about this initiative and believed them to be the best and much better of others that were being discussed. I'd like to ask for a reason. A senator, a respected president, how he feels about the activations that were under him into a novelty party in order to prepare for activation during the last term, the activation initiatives like Sandfell, and the flung neck of Cyrúsavík, the geologic activation, the Black Angelic disaster, the Holahlum, and the MCL. It is interesting to hear from the senator whether he sees it as a better and better activation option than the prime option here in the lower part of Þjórg.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u405	Mr. President. I know you're not supposed to compliment yourself, but I'm inclined to believe that it was a good speech for me because she got so fucked up. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. I'm just getting pretty proud of my speech. I've obviously met him in the right places and it doesn't make me cry. There's a misunderstanding. A senator that we have in the past had nothing to do with moving one area into a novelty party. They were thus classified from project management of the 2nd step-to-step program. In case of a moment. A senator believes these continuum transfunctioners should have gone over to wait, I may not disagree with him on that. I would not have been grieved if men had even moved more advantages, including Smokejanes, to wait, but at this rate, the last government from what came out of the process was not taken in a time of failure. That's the case, and it's a big misunderstanding that we've transferred them to a novelty party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u406	A respectable president. Here goes. A senator on the run, such as nothing unusual in these matters. He prefers not to answer my question, so it's best if I reiterate it. I never said they were brought into a colony, but they're a novelty party, and they weren't moved to a waiting party. As a result, the last government supported the need to prepare and investigate as a result of the activation efforts in those places. I would ask a simple question, Count out why. Senator that the activation options I listed, Sandfell and Swing Throat in Cyr Louis and Firethrowers in the Black Angel, do we have any business in the Neo class? In a press interview, the director of the Land Guard said that he would support the continuum transfunctioners that had entered a colony, so I assume that land protection will support these activations. I'll ask you why. A candidate of this more practical and more efficient natural activation method than the lower wound activation? Hv. A senator claimed that there were cases of modern shaman failures. This is by no means according to the information that a hunter gave us on a professional committee, much more, they are retrieving salmon in the Colombian River, where they were placed long after the activations were there during the war years and before the war and in recent times, where they have been used with modern technology, they have proved to be excellent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u407	Mr. President. I think that it was simply the kind of activation option, six of which, if I recall correctly, which was decided to have a waiting party was the most successful and the strongest argument came forward. This has been proved true in all cases, except perhaps in the case of Impulse reactivation. To keep that in mind, I recall that at least a zone reduction in the Smokejanes area was made in which some of the high - temperature area at the trunk of a flung neck was suspended. I don't remember this exactly, but the rest of the room knows better. Of course, it was reviewed on the Smokejanes, and in one case a change was made. [[Up front.]] This was the result of a project management. I can have my personal opinions on each and every one of these activation classes, if any. A senator feels that knowing this is vital. [[Up front.]] I would have been quite willing to do so, and in some cases I would have rejoiced that some of these areas had been suspended in order to make a clear answer. [[Up front.]] In terms of irrigation, they have yielded very variable results. In some places they have benefited, as I said in my speech, but in other cases they have been very disappointed, even to the point that dams have been torn down because it was found that seagulls were not working, e.g. correspondent in Australia or Tasmania [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u408	Mr. President. I have some questions to the highest level. President on how long this meeting will continue. So I noticed 32 o'clock. This morning, members of the board agreed to have an evening meeting, but according to clock clocks, eight of these are. Since the members of a house were apparently not planning to attend the discussion tonight, they did not intend to do so. Of course, this gives me a lot of surprise because they agreed to have a night meeting, so I would like to ask the highest question. President, for how long until the night, he estimates that this meeting will continue. It is important for us senators to receive clear answers from a dignified president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u409	A respectable president. I agree with what's been said here. There seems to be a pretty good way to do that. The members of the council have more to vote for length of meetings and other activities to come through the council than when it comes to doing Congress, they are only at home or somewhere else. I ask a respectable president: " Where are members of a council like Ármannsson? Where is he? Where is it? paritaprevir Elsa Lára Arnardóttir? Where is it? paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson, who's in the majority of the employment committees, is he here in the house? It would be interesting if he shared in the discussion. Where is it? paritaprevir Will Árnason, who's on the Environment Commission? Where is it? paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir, who's also on the Environment Commission, voted for an evening meeting? Isn't she going to participate in the conversation at night meeting? Where is Guðlarged Þórðarson, a special spokesman in each category after another, when it comes to a case he wants to be discussed in the evening? [[The president calls.]] Where are these senators and some others?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u410	A respectable president. It's minimum that those who vote for an evening meeting are here. I don't know what to say, but I want to ask the highest. To give me the position of the prime minister. I wished that he would come to the meeting to answer for what the labour market's members said in the evening news, that the matter presented here had made no bargaining agreements to do, would not be appropriate, had not been handled in those discussions despite the claim of the prime minister. I wanted him to come to the meeting. I was told that messages would be received to him, and now I want to know where he is and when he will come to the meeting to help us understand what his words were and why they are so far from the words of the labour market that he claimed to be doing anything else than they are actually doing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u411	A respectable president. During the last few hours, it has been seen to support the claims of the smaller section of the council that there is no reason to discuss this matter here and now, on the contrary, there is every reason to postpone this discussion and to refer it back to a committee. The first is the obvious indication. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon in a speech earlier or in response to an answer to a professional assessment because of the three priming options that are in the transition to a greater part of the employment committee is in progress. They're working. The other fact that I find here is that in the Commission's section of the trade committee, there is a serious error that must be considered a battle for most of it. You wonder, " Should I not print up the committee's opinion and correct the error in it? ' I think it's very important, and it's just as important to me to know if there's anything I can do. þm. In all of this, Jón Gunnar's son based his proposal on the false facts of the committee's opinion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u412	President. It would be nice to get an answer from the president about when it is scheduled to complete this meeting, not that it is of utmost importance whether we stay here all night or not, I'm convinced that the President is dreaming of sitting in this chair all night in bed together with the party. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son. I also miss how few senators voted for an evening meeting are here, but that's always the way it is. It's always the same. We've learned nothing, nothing. The Congress concluded that we were going to change the practice here after the collapse. It was a synopsis that all members of Congress agreed to, but it hasn't changed and will not change until the Piranians get more votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u413	Mr. President. I demand that the 24 members of the council voted with a night meeting here but it is informed that they will be absent, called every one, every one and every one, 23 members of the council and every one of them. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson, for to my surprise, he said, in a speech, that he was going to support a night meeting. We should have expected him then. These senators simply need to state that now is the evening meeting they requested and that their presence is required, call them all together, no matter what, and make them happy by making them aware that they had become their wish, that there is an evening meeting. [[Just call them.]] Actually, I hope it's just a night meeting, and I'm asking the highest. President if it's safe to say there's only evening meeting here. Committee meetings are being announced at 2 p.m. 8 or 8.30 in the morning, and so have we driven, perhaps coming to drive tomorrow too, and I don't think that work hours will last much longer than 16 hours a day for many days in a row, for understandable reasons. Then I draw the attention of the president, of course, that taking this matter off is a huge expense to the greater part because his cause gets worse every day. [[The president calls.]] It is always falling to the ground more and more, so it is more for the worst of all to extend this death - dealing war. It's always getting worse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u414	Mr. President. It's a question of whether we're breaking the Labour Protection Act. [[Up front.]] Yeah. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Is it a good example for us generals when the workforce is on fire and when it is tried to reach some agreements that we are breaking the OSH Law and discussing a framework because they have to get electricity in the country? In the country, employees don't want electricity in their pay layer, they want something else. It's been quite a while since I wanted to get to the top. Prime Minister would be here two hours. It's the highest. Prime Minister in town, as they say in the country? Is he not going to follow this case? [[The president calls.]] He suggested it was so much into the hula struggle, but now the workforce team has hauled it all ashore.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u415	A respectable president. I'm coming here because I'm all over myself already. A senator and a council chairman of the left green, Svandís Svavarsdóttir, picked up the names of individual senators and asked where they were as normal as that when more things called after a night meeting, he became all members of the council. [[Why?]] I've been to the council since 2007, and I'm not saying that this is a good impression, I agree with that. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir, but it's always been like this. This does not mean that it is good, but I do not recall that the council members in general went to a ponttea, named by name, and called for their arrival. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] A respectable president. I don't like it, and I don't think it's a good idea that people don't do their jobs. [[The president calls.]] [[The president asks why. Senators keeping their emotions in check.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u416	It's not doing your job.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u417	... hereallthetime last winter. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u419	Hey, is that the job...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u420	... thecircumbent...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u421	V.E.G. President. It's called after what's happened. The members of the board of directors who voted with an evening meeting. Of course, I can just come and talk for myself, I'm ready to take part in a more objective and helpful discussion on this subject. I was listening to a good talk from a bad man. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and upbuilding speech to reason. President of the Professional Road Committee, Jón Gunnarsson. I recommend that we continue our program and take up a serious discussion of the current and scheduled issues. There are plenty of members of both the government and the smaller parts, in a house to take practical and objective discussions and to use arguments to get the matter going.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u422	Mr. President. The president has not answered those who have raised a question about how long the meeting should last. Since it is almost 11 o'clock, giving one of the highest is not out of the way. The President plans to do it. We are not just as many in our government opposition as it seems to be made by the senators who voted for a long meeting. They seem to share works, and a part of them is here in a house, and another probable place somewhere else. It is only polite for us to know what the meeting will be for a long time when it is clear that there have been a number of perplexing issues and comments from the position of the government that are not up to this issue. Of course, it has long since been canceled, but it is clear that we need to know how long the meeting will last. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u423	A respectable president. Many are on the rosary of this case, and there is good reason for continuing to do something in the night; it is unusual when it becomes evident during this time of the Senate that there is a little observance in the night. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson said that all members of Congress would do well to see the sun begin to light up the day when it would appear during this period of time, and I think we should stick to going on well and try to make a little bit of this long list that here would like to discuss these grammatic issues. [[Up front.]] I'd like to now say about what's been said here, that the cause of the greater part is always getting worse, that I think he's getting stronger all the time. The basic legal opinion as far as it goes. The members of the smaller section have been unable to reason on this matter; they support it very strongly and clearly that much of it has the legal authority to go that way. [[The president calls.]] There is no opposition to the law on a frame plan, so we should be able to take that issue out of the table and continue to have another objective discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u424	The president wants to state a message to the highest level. The prime minister that his presence was requested here has been repeated.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u425	A respectable president. I said earlier tonight that if any of the senator's advisers were to attend this discussion, it would be only natural that it was the minister who suggested the proposal for discussion. I think that would be very useful, considering the information that has been presented. He knew the matter well, received suggestions from a project manager, had no reason to make changes other than what the project management suggested, i.e. leading to delayed seizure reactivation in use. Only on the internal inconsistencies of the core, it is quite remarkable to observe that men are involved in accepting a night meeting, which they will not then be on their own, repeatedly complain that there is a delay in the material discussion of the President's conference board but at the same time complain that in talks about the President's meeting board is a material discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u426	Well, then the theater of the absurd continues. I called it the theater of the absurd game, too, during the last term, when we were in such a mess as we are in right now, where there is no reconciliation and no one wants to solve difficult knots. As I said before, President, we've learned nothing at all. We planned so much and much after a crash, we were going to learn from it, but the council is now a hostage of a major part of the employment committee. It's a hostage for the change, it's a few hearings, it's never been done before, and it's a very bad example in making use of the position that there was really no Ministry of Environment for a long time. The situation is now being abused while a minister is entering the seminary. [[The president calls.]] It has been observed in the highest range. A secretary of the environment that it is not accompanied by this change proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u427	Mr. President. I thank the President for informing that messages have been repeated to the prime minister that his presence is required. If this meeting is to continue in our course of action, we need to hope to the highest degree. The prime minister would be here unless he was at the highest level. The president is aware of this, for he may know his habits better than the person here speaks, to the highest. Prime Minister is a very latecomer. I think it would be very helpful to hear the reading of the world's highest level. The prime minister of these talks has proved to be nonsense, as far as most of us can see from media sources. The fact that a structure was so much mentioned there is no prior interview in the labour market. Personally, I would be even more interested in talking to the highest. Prime Minister and hear his national statements on how driving back to the path of the old industrial policy would become the crowns and money in the pockets of ordinary workers or academics in hospitals. It would be a very interesting discussion, perhaps a deeper understanding of the highest. Prime Minister is approaching national interests and how he understands them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u428	A respectable president. This morning a vote for the duration of a meeting was adopted. Then many came up and told us that we were not too good to work into the night. It was also done by shouts from the hall. And what is the problem with the use of a symposium called after members of the council who supported this proposal? I think that's why. Councilmen and senators who have it to present themselves in the hall and trouble for other members of Congress, telling them how they should behave in the Senate and how to speak to other members of Congress should take their own advice and not stand in the hall and call for other members of the council after their talks are finished or in the presence of other members of Congress two minutes after a careful approach to other members of Congress. [[The president calls.]] Those who speak that way must also apply what they preach but not use the platform to be careful of others if there is no basis for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u429	Mr. President. I declared that I was surprised not to see any more of it. Senators who voted with a nightly meeting with great enthusiasm to discuss this matter, but they are not visible, and I describe a surprising decrease in regard to it. On the other hand, I'm not personally a fan of evening meetings, realize that they are sometimes necessary, but then you would have wanted the arguments presented here to be answered. This statement repeatedly points to a legal opinion that is ignored and also to the comment that has been suggested that this is not a good practice. I haven't heard anybody answer why men choose not to listen to professionals. You suffer from an impending lack of electricity, which has been driven here by many speeches and the need to turn on the cycle of employment, which has also been driven by many talks. Mr. President. I am concerned that meetings late in the evening do not increase concentration and focus in these discussions, and there is indeed a greater need. [[The president calls.]] So I reiterate my question that I have not received an answer from a respectable president: How long will he continue this meeting? It must be natural for us to find answers to that question. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u430	A respectable president. I don't mind that we're going on a bit, but we really need to know about it by then. At 8:30 tomorrow morning, we have a meeting at noon. A top-of-the-art Board of Education and there's a review of a permafrost case. As a respectable president, I'm probably a member of a Pirantar class that has come from Pirate Party, which is especially due to the permafrost, so it's a fairly important meeting in my case. I can't let him go, and I have to go to him at least something to sleep with. I'm a very small members of Congress, so I kind of need to know. I'm not asking for this meeting to be shortened, but it would be very good to know about what the President has planned so that the work can be organized better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u431	Mr. President. Tonight, the call has been repeated for the highest level. The prime minister comes to the Hall of Congress and reviews the apparent failure in the case, where he had considered both at the conference hall and in the media to accept this controversial change offer. A greater proportion of the employment committee would be a prerequisite for the release of the chicken species. [[Up front.]] Now it has been discovered that there seems to have been empty bullshit, and we need to review it and get an explanation. It may be at the top. The prime minister has some explanation for the case, and we need to know before continuing to do so. Besides, I ask the highest. The president has planned to continue meetings for a long time and when to begin with. The prime minister comes in to discuss matters with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u432	Mr. President. Of course, it's very bad that nothing should go to the highest level. Prime Minister and I believe that it is right for us to pause at this meeting and let people home to rest. I'm here for a meeting at the pro board. 8 and hope that they will be on the program for some more upbuilding subjects than the rest of the adjustment proposal that has been under discussion and that all matters will be stopped during the assembly for days. Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson came in and said we should take the argument, and it's just really good to do it, but I want to know what's going on. A senator would do what to do when he is not quick to reason. On occasion, humans may be confronted with the issue of nonconvincation, even though it is proved otherwise inconceivable. [[The president calls.]] It's the stuff that hurts.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u433	The President encourages members of Congress to discuss the President's conference board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u434	V.E.G. President. I'm putting out the conference board not to get any answers about the duration of the meeting. I haven't demanded the highest. The prime minister is present. I just want to get the answer written from him because I don't think he's interested in coming here and talking to us, and when he's left it behind to come into the councilroom, it's a very small deal, but he's got some assistants, and I'd like them to come together for us what is supposed to come out of the approved scheme of these contracts, which will be the solution to the agreements. I'm going to witness an interview with Magnús Pétursson, who says that he hasn't seen any of the same strikes in years and since before a collapse: We deal with a number of issues here, not just with the purchase, but with other aspects of society. It is the division of resources, the profit of resources, how to divide it. There's a conflict between groups, one better off than the other. So there's some controversy about a lot of things in the community that I'm quite convinced of affecting the status of a host discussion. And the government does not help solve the problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u435	V.E.G. President. These are called by counsellors and members of Parliaments, and we take up discussions about the national significance of the subject and the cost of the discussion, the balance of protection and innovation, the significance of what it means to make a decision. It is difficult in this minute to discuss all of these things, so if we cannot attend a routine, it is empty to talk about discussing this team and taking some reasoning. I also want to get to the top. Environment Minister Sigrún Magnúsdóttir has been very active in the discussion, giving a talk, and having a word to do. Senators of the Board of Overseers. I'm supposed to be speaking soon, and then we can talk about it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u436	A respectable president. Doesn't the President worry that there's war everywhere in the community? There is war and conflict in the labour market, and the government seems to be in the position that no matter where it kills, the conflict is overreached. It adds to the conflict here at the council. It increases the conflict with those who are in labor strike operations and arm up all the knots. The President has authority over the council, not the government, so the president has at least to influence the debate at the council not to directly increase the peace in the community. It was observed in the state of the state of the news tonight that the conflict was not only about buying and buying but also about the public's concern over the division of resources, increased discrimination, and increasing social inequities. [[The president calls.]] This can be affected by the way the program is conducted and the program is delegating.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u437	A respectable president. Please don't take this as a complaint. I want to tell you something I think it's worth thinking about when it comes to democracy. So I have many good friends and many good cousins, two cousins especially brothers. One day, we sat at home and needed something from the store, so we chose one of us to go to the store, the youngest, and we called him Fascist when he rejected this democratic decision. I reiterate that I'm not complaining, but I think it's worth calling this because those who voted by holding this meeting are generally not here, I'm just one in the hall, two with a respectable president who voted with this meeting, so it's obvious that those who voted by holding this council are not very interested in participating in it. Of course, all of this is understandable, and we know exactly why. I think it's worth considering when it comes to the President's conference board and what it is we're up against here. [[The president calls.]] There is no topic of conversation because there is no room for them when there is almost no one in the hall who wants to talk about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u438	To answer that question, the president would like to state that he intends to continue a meeting for another time.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u439	President. I've been very strong here these past few days... that I live in the land of the crazy men. In view of the permission of the president, I'm going to read a very strong article by Snær Sufnar Magnason, which appeared on visi.is of September 11, 2010: It is an isolated thing in the world that a nation drinks its companies in debt to double its energy production and double it again with its own tail. There are standards for everything. Usually, we sense our daily lives as to what is normal and what is precocious. Sometimes the blind discussion will help us to try talking about things in a foreign land to see them in a different light. For example, try to tell someone that here a government bank was sold with a loan from the other bank and vice versa. Thus, they would have been handed to humans closely associated with the ruling political parties. The second - class manager became the head of a bank council in one bank while the former minister of the former category was one of those who got the other bank. That man had access to all information about the bank's position. In the meantime, however, this former secretary of business became the money manager. He flew to America and made an offer that the company could not refuse. Thus, he had guaranteed the largest major projects in Iceland and the expansion of the bank he was selling to himself. If you say that in foreign, you shake your head. They play. They use words like corruption and masturbating. They say unbelievers and even disappointed: No use in Scandinvia! That's what happens in South America, Russia, this can't happen to you. In one word, it's crazy. But in Iceland it was presented as a normal trade or normal ideologies. The standard insanity. It's insane that ten times the banking system in seven years. We know that now. It is not technically possible to cultivate all the knowledge and experience needed to build up and drive such devices in such a short time. Not even by shoveling a whole generation through a bisque school and saving those born before 1980 at a shorter baptism at the MBA course. It's just not possible. Even if a boy who still has the foetal fats in his hair gets 2 million a month, he won't be more experienced, smarter, or more responsible. It's a lot more likely that he'll get crazy. It was also evident. The energy production in Iceland was doubled from 20023/42007. To double energy production in developed countries over five years is not just a few things to be heard. Rather, it would be a ridiculous mess in all our neighboring countries. In most developed countries, energy production is increasing by some 23% per year. Doubleting would be unthinkable, for there are many reasons why too much investments are ruining more than they create. In Iceland, however, the goal was to double energy production again for the next five years by means of an inscription in Helga, Húsavík, and actually better by triple in Straumsvík. But the word "Impulse " alone does not include any size criterion. Alcoa and Century have since announced that they want to build 50% more melt than they first had. This added the demand for energy to the brain of Melancholy's disease - this is the case in an accident. What was previously a crazy size has suddenly become some sort of footnote. This was not a linear growth. It was a product of empire growth. The following period of insanity was supposed to take on complete and complete madness. The industry was then to be financed by 4,4005500 billion 100% loans from public energy companies. Almost 2 million per person in Iceland, all direct aluminium and secret energy prices that are total insanity. All of this was discussed in the media, such as by other commercial creations. Is cocaine in the hot water? The mental illness is now obvious in the geologic industry. There, the trend had been evenly stable since the heat - repair industry during the recession years. It is now as if humans have drilled into a cocaine vein and filled their nostrils thoroughly. There were 60 MW productions in the Red Sea in some 40 years, and this did not work out quickly. It is suddenly to be 4-fold possible indentation, increasing by 150 MW. They aim for ten times the energy supply in the Parliamentian county to serve the new Alcoa factory in five years. Isn't that a 1000% increase? They're supposed to go as close as they can, and they want a piece of rock too. PGE has sold it to the Northern Link and the Hellishik. Magma Energy has been advertised to increase HS energy production from 175 megawatts to over 400 MW because it seems likely that the main sources of energy of all Smokenes will be privateized and delivered to Magma. It's what we're looking at now. It's what we're looking at. It's not a personal interest. - U.S.Newspeak. ▪ You can ask like an idiot: Is there knowledge and manpower to multiply all the energy companies in ten years? Of 20 high - temperature areas in Iceland, 16 are to be disturbed immediately, almost everything for the aluminium industry. The companies have applied for permission to drill most of the areas left. Is there no doubt in the mind of geology when they are living in a fairy tale world on Torfajokul, the Mountains of Kerns, or Bitru? They really want to go to MS, right now? Are these educated people or just mercenaries who work for anyone? All of a sudden, it's possible to claim ten times the energy production in the Netherlands to serve a new Alcoa factory in five years (or just one Chinese factory). Many people seem normal to be borrowing 30 billion public companies to allow their energy to be sufficient for another Alcoa plant. Why are people so crazy? Is there really someone who thinks it's a good idea to make a debt for a total of 300 to400 billion for two Alcoa-aluminium creatures in the same district? Why do we need ten times? 1000% increase? It's a crazy risk, isn't it? Why don't people start with 50 MW activation, let it pay off, do more after 20 years, or simply make community enjoy something? Or should society never enjoy a profit? Sunnlenian knowledge. I was at a meeting in Húsavík once, where the thermal manager said that he could easily reach 1,000 MWs from the high - temperature areas of the Netherlands. I asked if it was correctly understood that scientists were concerned about the use of hyperthermia in the nation's high - temperature regions. Criticism was a quick source of information that made all warning bells agglomerate. I found an interview with this temperature manager from 2002. By then, he had drilled a large hole for 170 million because the Russians might want to build a fruit - fruit factory and a giant steel plant at Húsavík. If you record minor facts such as that the Russian wing industry was fired by the mob, then the search for industry in the world is just as much and as toxic waste and sauerkrauting. The head of the team had already spent 170 million on research. This is crazy, isn't it? This mad man and his friends have kept their prayers in the middle of a weekend and mortgaged the energy companies into the woods. It's all been so good to think they're untouchable. Despite being a demonistic organization in other countries, they would never practice such a thing in this country. Sure. Holy home man. In Iceland, the most amazing nonsense comes from criticism. In the March 1987 morning newspaper, predictions of the development of fur animal breeding were found in 1996. At that time, there were 30 minutes left in the country. A report predicts that there will be 600 minks in 1996. They expect 20 times of interest in ten years, as if nothing were for granted. A month later, an optimistic report is published: ▪ This year the Chinese population doubles. Just three years later, in April 1990, this dramatic headline is: ◯ Animal breeding: It is now final rotation. Many on the brink of despair Here we consider the disordering as the norm, even life's necessities, the highest virtue, everything is considered normal if a man of the world wants it. There's nothing as crazy in Iceland as the Holy Homeless Man. If an unknown person wants to build an oil treatment station in his land, he has that sacred right, especially if he uses the term ◯attogenesis to justify his actions. The magic word that emptys the brain's brain mad guys and paralyzes critical thoughts. The amount of money that seemed to be significant in neighboring countries, energy sources, and infrastructure that are in the maps of superpowers, which have come under the will of local peoples and regions. The nation's supply and natural nature are represented by a small number of strape committees with no staff and no expertise, while the majority of Icelanders living in the capital area are nowhere counted to be ◯heimists. A Mafia fruit company? Mysterious mercenaries? World-famous waste. Right to 120? They go so far as to please their Prince Charming that they become like the ugly sister in the fairy tale, cut off their toes to squeeze into the glass slipper. Instead of encountering opposition to the social wing, crazy ideas are driven by wild labor leaders who demand extreme payment on public energy companies. If the penance stops, then you're as fast as you're supposed to. Icelanders are poor if they can't guarantee 200 billion for Northern Hell and one for Alcoa. When the public companies are damaged and unable to apply for the big business, the only result is immediate privatization of the resources in order to break the position. ASI puts it in a contract of rigids that all obstacles should be removed in Helgavík, U.S.A. But blood in shoes. Just because of that kind of thought, another hundred foreigners are still inert after the construction of Krumbon's Healing. All obstacles were overcome to supply energy to Alcoa, which saves them $200 million a year. That's the annual salary of 10,000 teachers. To create 400 jobs is insane to damage so many workers. In fact, although humans use archaic guidelines, such as the mnemonic effect, would it not be a minor trick to subtract the unworkable from the total? The rise of the coasts to the Power Institute. In Helguvík, the elf is a symbol of what a poor country Iceland is. The cave in Helgavík rises despite lack of organization and energy, as well. Good if the contaminants aren't missing too. The Holy Brothership of Helguvík represents the weakness of the government in the country, the professional and long - term thinking of much more than anything else, and the way the media almost encourage lawbreakers in headlines. Examples: HD Energy intends to expand Smokejanes activation by 50 MW. Enlargement depends on the activation permit from the Power Institute. Experts believe that the Smokenes are already overexploited. However, HS Orcs have spent billions of dollars in the new turban. Headlines do not turn on the corruption, buying billions of turbins before permission comes. Prominents are more likely to come this way: If we turn this up on Icesave, the reporter would write like this: Despite the destruction of a billion computer systems to take over the backs of the United Kingdom, the financial watch does not authorize branch operations. PGE has billions of dollars in the stock of the unused turban purchased for North Africa in Helga before any of the lines had been organized or approved. The city has to pay off the loan. The premise of the plant is that an OR is allowed to activate on Bitru and Whoville. However, it is not clear whether the population of Whoord wants to participate in an attempt to influence sulphur pollution on human health. The premise of the plant is, too, that HS Orcs getyr Krysvík and Firethrowers, and that the land inactivation will be induced, and that they will engulf them. Thus the public build a complex gambling city where only one card falls, risks, debts, and commitments go down. Thus, all for one company missing most of the licenses have been tied to the hands of the next mayor and the chemical industry in a psychotic industry in important areas. Could any man report this assignment at an international conference without being patched down as a amateur? In fact, at an international conference, such a man would produce more lust than an erotic dancer: a ◯Vestian nation with third world rules. Yum Yum! The labor movement doesn't want rules, professionalism or long-term energy thinking. All she wants is for any obstacles to be eliminated. The head of North Africa should get siren on his car so that traffic regulations won't hold him back. Aluminium, silica, data plant - there is no energy for all of this. Yet everyone's starting to build into the air. It's a crazy team that all dicks around me in a push-up. The busy madness. To double energy production helped to blow up the economy. The idea of doubleing it again is a failure that has no match in the Western world. Although more than any profit from resources goes to foreign creditors, it has no effect on the lunatics. In addition to revolution and insanity, mental loss, increased energy prices to the common people, naturalists should sit down with wild humans and define what to protect and what to activate. Despite the predictable double production, however, they also want the Red Sea, including the Cherves, also the Torfajokus, basically want everything, and want it to get STRIAX. How admirable it is to discuss matters with courtesy, though the only healthy answer is to scream: I SHOULD NOT THOSE HELWILL! We are in the middle of a revolution, but they don't call themselves aluminum revolutionaries, they define themselves as normal though the scale is insane. Men even like being persecuted. Thus, when warlords intend to take over the neighboring kingdom in the name of peace, they are always persecuted. Anyone who doesn't participate in the mob hysteria is either a traitor or a crazy one. The core of the problem. Over the years, polls have shown that a large proportion of men between 40 and 170 years of age have been in favor of mental illness, double, and then double again. The biggest problem lies among the voters of the Independence Party, where much more men have even considered insanity the basis for life to thrive in Iceland. In addition, much of them would like to compromise environmental requirements and issue regulations. That's Iceland's most serious political problem. If all were normal, our men should be conservative, moderate, dangerous, religious, thrifty, sober, even boring. It's an important group of people in every community. There are many typical family fathers, these are the pillars of society, sports associates, corporate rulers, influential men, members of Congress, and even journalists and editors. These are men who have the authority to define what is normal and what is credulous. It's very serious when such an important group breaks down. It is an isolated thing in the world that a nation drinks its companies in debt to double its energy production and double it, disrupting as many areas in the same short period of time. For example, the Western nation takes on so much risk, offering so much for vague and secret profit from business dealings with American corporations. What Western nation would pledge, such as Century or Alcoa, at least 2 million per person? Sadly, I have almost finished my speaking lesson and will continue to read this thrilling article by author Snær Magnason. I have concluded a reference to all those who have not read it in order to study it or to listen to my next talk, where I will read the next chapter. I look forward to it, for this article has seldom been as timely and as timely in this discussion. I'll have them finish my case for now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u440	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for an interesting reading. I may not be able to say that I agree with all that was shown in what was read and yes, I'll say that I was feeling a little hurt on behalf of Húsavík, my uncle and friends there. But I'm not going to talk about it to you. A senator thinks otherwise. I'm a big fan of people trying to find out where they're going with society if they're in government and what happens to it. V.E.G. The prime minister has said that this matter is the key to solving a struggle in a labour market. Since then, however, both the assistant director of the Association of Business and the President of the ASI, Gylfi Arnbjörnsson, have appeared and said that this is wrong, i.e. that the frame has never had a discussion about improving employment costs, so something has changed the community since then. A senator may be describing, hopefully, not that it is the key to attacking the fortresses, but that there are other forces at work and that are relevant to sustainable growth for the long future, but some major projects that produce relatively few jobs, so that is well. However, Prime Minister still feels this way, i.e. That this is the key. I'd like to ask you what. A senator from where she believes he has these ideas, since there is no one else who agrees, and whether she knows that such views exist elsewhere, but the rest of us may have noticed and where to begin. The prime minister may have had his head say that this was the key to the difficult debate that we now see.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u441	President. It is so important to remember the background of what it was like here, and fortunately many people have learned from history. At one time, it was as if it were the only solution to all the problems in the country, and it was one of the reasons why it started off so badly. Economic growth times are not usually carried out in this way as Kaldrum's disease induction was. I don't know where the bottom line is. Since these ideas have been received by the prime minister, it is shocking that he has been here only for a short time and not to comment on anything at all. He has not answered for what he has really learned to be false on his part. But likely he will interpret it as being mistaken for the highest degree. Minister, as always, when brought back with falseness. That's very bad. It's like the highest. The prime minister has experienced some strange time machine, and he is trapped in another age, perhaps in the last century, and it is strange to see such a young person fasting that way. If he was more here with us at the council, I'm sure we could help him get into the 21st century. But this is very strange all, and I am reserved to understand why it is decided to start using this method to force the case we're discussing through the council, which is really being taken off--don't I just invite those who are calling into the hall, to come into the hall? - They're breaking up the box. And that's a very dangerous path, I must say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u442	A respectable president. There are turmoil in many parts of the world, and we often talk about flying in the air. There are also controversies, and they are here sometimes in the side halls. A respectable president. I find interesting the picture that is drawn up in the article as a reason. A senator read up earlier because in many respects it is so true. We've come a long way from this, not far enough, but we've realized in the past years that magic solutions don't exist. The growth of human society is not produced by such remarkable projects that come from outside. Rather, it is the internal growth of a large bus and provides more for longer periods of time. Many of the things we've seen so far, and the fast solutions in the politics have been very expensive, and we've come so far that we don't have enough electronic energy left, i.e. In the water and in the earth. [[The president calls.]] And that is why it is so important that when we make decisions about what we will do for the rest of our life, we make good use of them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u443	President. I don't quite agree that we've come a long way from this attitude. This attitude has been reflected here at a recent conference and in the whole process around a frame plan, so I have felt as if I had come back to this time. I experienced this about the journey that had gone during the last term and was a long, long way in which, for example, 20 - year - old comforters, e.g. with a frame plan, that we are going backwards and you can go very fast backwards. And it's just the highest. The prime minister of Iceland would think of using these battles as a hostage to force this case through. I'd just like to remind you that the council is ready to let the original synonym pass through. It's this adjustment proposal from the majority of the employment committee we're evading.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u444	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. paritaprevir For her speech, Birgitta Jónsdóttir. She was special there. A senator began by expressing her feelings as if she were in the country of the crazy men and then reading from a book by Andri Snær Magnason. I'm not going to comment on that book or maybe the input of the subject she read up, and though.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u445	An article.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u446	- An article. Of course, writers such as Andri Syr Magnason are making us think, I'll leave it at that. But, hey. A senator here spoke about aluminum and aluminum, quoting this article and the negative around it, the madness described. However, I would like to talk about this energy-enforcement industry in a more positive way, pointing out that the cell that has developed around this industry, which has been activated by hand, is creating approximately 10% of the annual valuables we speak as GDP. At the same time, the cluster clusters deal with virtually every industry in the country, or they are in contact with them. I want to ask you why. A senator has some idea of the future structure in this industry. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u447	Thanks for the answer. It was a wise man who once said not to put all the eggs in the same basket. And I am and have long thought, after the last large plant was set in motion, the vessels were started, that we have come up with quite ablaze in Iceland. We don't need any more studios, we can use the energy for another, and I also think how little these companies pay for energy. Similar companies, the same firm, paid three to four times more for the energy in Germany. They went to Iceland because buying energy here was so cheap. So I think we should stop for a minute, we have a new resource in the country of foreign tourists. We do not maintain enough of that trade. Sadly, the government has not been successful in ensuring that those who have benefited from increasing tourism are involved in the cost but were to be considered on the cost. over to the Icelanders, the public, which is a natural negative idea. So I'd like to encourage them. A senator uses solutions that are in the sense of not being destroyed by short - term vision. We need to shape a much clearer view of how we are going to feed our country so that we will not only be able to live here as an Iceland but also have an opportunity to come here to enjoy nature with us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u448	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. We agree to use energy and protect and find that balance. We need a variety of work edifications. The growth in tourism has still been high at the same time as we have managed to use the energy to form aluminium companies, so I don't have any reason why we cannot reasonably continue to do so. I also point out that when it comes to the dresser business, it's certainly the problem with tourism that it's a low-paying job, so it's not real. [[Anyone else?]] But later, I'll tell you, how's it going? A senator imagines solving the knot we are in, the meaning we have for the change and shape requirements that may need to be adjusted so that we can settle the frame we've been discussing? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u449	President. I'm sorry, but I can't ask the senator what he meant. I don't really know if the Senator was suggesting that we set up any more studios or not. I'd love to. The vast majority of tourists coming here have no idea, in fact, the big-time policy this country represents, that's not part of the advertising package abroad. Iceland is said to be clean and clear, and all of this, but it may not be in some parts of the country. It's just a fact. Regarding the knot we have entered with a change in the proposal of a greater part of the employment committee, it will not be solved here. It is the professional committee who will solve that knot. It's okay to wait with this. Let's take the Senate resolution form and allow the panel committee to decide what to use and what to do in protecting them from their work in the way they were originally assigned. The box. If we do this, then the frame we've built is gone, we've just started over. I think that the conflict that has been here in the community about the environment -- I don't think anybody wants to go back to that place. But there will be great conflict. That's it, isn't it? Have we not been in enough conflict all over the place? When will we find something that we can share in working together? Can we at least do that before we get into this? I want this case to be taken out of the program because it causes so much trembling, not here, but in the community. [[The president calls.]] I want us to take it out of the program and let this...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u450	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. One of the things that have struck many in this discussion about a framework is that statements are highest. Prime Minister and others before. Congress to agree with this proposal is somehow vital to the resolution of the dispute. There is now a possibility that no one else will recognize it. The labour market members do not know that they have been pressured to accept the proposal. The ASI, the largest employee organization, also speaks of this case, encourages the subject to have its own professional processes, i.e. The task management is permitted to complete its work and that the council is not entering the process set out in the Framework Act. It is also interesting if we consider that the evidence here is that some form of electricity is being drawn up. It has to do with it as a whale. A senator was reading from the writer Snær Sóln Magnason that we are selling 80% of the nation's electricity production to a major industry. We've activated half of the activated hydropowers and the geothermals. At the same time as the country has almost a power shortage and has to be activated more to drive the industry, the government reports that the energy taxes should be removed. Thus, it is not only talking about sacrificing more nature to enable more for the industry but also intended to eliminate electricity taxes to ensure that the profit of this common resource is not in the nation's pocket but in those who run the energy companies. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir into that direction and her vision of this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u451	President. I just agree with Snær Magnason when he sees this as a form of insanity, this direction. She's so inconsolable for the future. It does not take into account future generations that will inherit the land. It's just to solve short-term problems. That's one hell of a problem. I was among the many who pointed out what would happen when Kärillan would be activated, such as for Laguna. The Lager River has been destroyed. This beautiful law has been ruined, it has become like mud, except for all the mud that passes over the river's valley, for example, an enormous amount of dough that everyone who wanted to know about it would want to happen. If we could somehow turn back a little bit from this trip, wouldn't it be great if we could provide greenhouses with more energy discounts so we could make more vegetables in Iceland, so we're not moving in and spending currency to import vegetables? We still have a currency head. I don't see a bed on stable tax. Prime Minister and has not yet seen him. I think we're being kept busy here at the council, discussing the box because the government needs time to complete that matter. It's obviously crazy to do at the Ministry of finance or something like that. But this policy is not a course that I could ever support, neither by my wit nor by my heart.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u452	Madam President. There are a lot of things that I really hate about this proposal of the greater part and almost everything, but it's not just a bad form of form, we've talked about the form, but we've had plenty of time to discuss the content of the material, both from environmental reasonings and from the material. There isn't a stone on a rock when it rains. The members of the major part come up here and talk about these fortresses as an economic necessity at the same time as the same government and the same. Congress votes on it and supports the reduction of marine resource expenditures, reduce energy taxes, calms all years to ensure that the public in the country does not benefit from resource use, because it seems to be the policy. At the same time that these resources are further used to ensure that the public is not allowed to share the resource's money. No matter where you look, if you look at environmental moisture, social or economic, there is not a stone on a stone in this suggestion of the greater part. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u453	President. I don't need to remind you, but I've been saying repeatedly about the country that people are experiencing the present government as rich people, because the interests of those who have the best have been guaranteed at the expense of those who will inherit the land and those who live in a very poor way today. Personally, I don't approve of these activation options. Of course, I will obey the findings of the National Committee. I don't want to activate any of these sites, but I'm going to compromise the results of the Committee. This is what more than a part of the job committee is supposed to do. He should wait for the completion of the professional process. That's my opinion. I will not disappear from her.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-05-20-109.u454	The President has received the following program proposals and the following letters: We signed it, in accordance with 1.mg. 77st. Conventional song, for the next meeting to be as follows: 1st Unprepared queries. 2. Specific discussions of market solutions on the fishing road. Apocalyptic is Björt Ólafsdóttir. In answer to this, we will have a marine economist minister and agricultural minister Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson. 3. The job market situation. Ordinary report of the prime minister. 4. Electrical law (systemistical programme, EEA rules), Industrial and Business Directoring, 305 suit, 1005, needle. 1091 and 1226, big guy. 1092 and 1227, 3rd. 5. Government policy on correction of electrical lines, administration proposal, industrial and commercial ministers, 321 cases, sector. 392, needle. 973 and 996, please. 1228. Passing the second round. We would like this proposal to be presented for release in accordance with the above terms of engagement. Under this letter, Jón Þór Ólafsson, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and Björt Ólafsdóttir. This proposal will be presented at the beginning of a meeting tomorrow.
