ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u1	V.E.G. President. For example, the January 31 report on immigrants and population growth in Iceland stated that by the 21st century, the transfer of foreign citizens back to nearly half of the population in Iceland is being done. The number of inhabitants of the land has increased by 50 thousand in this century and is alienated from foreign cities in excess of the export of 22,690. Last year the percentage of foreign citizens in Iceland was 7.4%. It may also be that the number of preschoolers with foreign citizenship has increased by seven times in the century. Now 11% of preschoolers and 6% of basic schoolchildren have a second language. The report also shows that without the growth of immigrants, economic growth had become less than the case. I expect the future to be a growing industry in Iceland. In this regard, I give particular attention to the growth of tourism and construction projects, e.g. in association with the structure of the silica plant. It is therefore expected that the number of immigrants will continue to increase in Iceland, and we should not be surprised by this trend. The development of immigrants is far farther off in the North countries than in this country. The current began to be serious in the 1970's, but it was not until the beginning of the 1990's that, for example, Danir began to focus on the affairs of immigrants and stress their adaptation to Danish society. It has cost the Danish state a lot of money to wind down negative developments that took place in some areas where tens of them did not take decisive action. In my opinion, we Icelanders now have the opportunity to take advantage of the experience of neighboring nations, where this trend will later begin here on land. A multicultural society is the future, we should welcome people who want to live here and help them to adapt to Icelandic society in every way. It increases economic growth and, above all, enriches cultural life and expands the horizon of all of us. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u2	A respectable president. In order to restore confidence in the General Assembly, the council has to go to national will and political leaders to keep their promises. Today, it is still emphasized that more part of the country is opposed to the movement of the European Union and the proselytists of the Independence Party promised in all terms that people would vote for continued discussions. It is long time for the Independence Party to keep its promises and for the people of the land to make the greatest decision about the future of the country. It must also be a matter of concern in Icelandic politics when one third of the voters of the Independence Party are in opposition to its chairman's plans, Bjarni Benediktsson, whether it is becoming in Icelandic politics that international rights have become absolutely homeless, that at the General Assembly, they lack a complete political party or party that speaks to the views of many of the right - men who also believe in international cooperation, in promoting business relations, and in cooperation with other Western nations. Is there hope?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u3	A respectable president. Reykjavík airport's subject is in complete uncertainty, unacceptable to my judgment. It is not acceptable to have a circuit of 06-24, also called an emergencyway during the discussion, shut down for a building. Just too much is required of those who are being sacrificed with that provision. This will greatly increase our risk to the sick who need to get to the one high-tech hospital in the country where they plan to build next to the airport. A corresponding highway in Cheflavík would mean an additional hour of travel before the patient would be admitted to the hospital. A 06-24 course enables you to start a medical flight under difficult weather conditions that could not be taken otherwise. Unquestionably, all those connected with air transport should have the full assurance of any doubt that may arise in addition to assuming the worst possible events. In addition, it allows for a degree of wind, and this may be relevant when moving badly injured people, e.g. with severe fractures, or in women who have lost their water before delivery and who are not allowed to handle any snorkeling. I don't understand that there's a debate about this matter, the inside of society that has become more and more involved in LSH, and that people don't simply demand that the airport stay and they be trusted, not the opposite, as well as everything else that recommends that the airport be allowed to stay.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u4	V.E.G. President. I'd like to turn the state analysis and counseling centre into a subject, but the role of state analysis and counseling centres is to improve quality of life and improve the future of children and adolescents with developmental disorders that can lead to disability. The children's main disability leading to a reference to the diagnostic station are developmental restraints, autism, motor retardation, and blindness. The Agency provides expert advice for children, parents, play and elementary school and community counseling. The main subject of the Agency is to provide expert advice. On average about 300 children are referred to the test centre each year, of which about 60 are dismissed annually because the Agency does not share the whole population under current circumstances. This means that a considerable number of disabled preschoolers have short-term advice after diagnosis, and those who receive such counseling are in need of much more advice. Early intervention is called a deliberate attempt to influence the progress of children with a developmental abnormality as early as possible. It is important that the intervention begins as soon as possible after detection of developmental anomalies. It can have a profound impact on quality of life in the individual's case when both early detection and more readily to respond quickly to the situation. Within the diagnostic centre, specific knowledge of neurological abnormalities in children is available, e.g. autism and developmental impairment. There is no intervention in most play schools or community counseling services, but under the present circumstances the Agency is not able to handle this properly. Today, the Agency has to decide not to accept children that are assessed by its workers to be less disturbed, not because there is no reason to render service, but because more serious matters are important. I'm the highest. Social Affairs Ministers to ensure that our most vulnerable fellow believers and sisters are provided with the help they need as early as they need, e.g. ... withexploitationof projects for private users. According to that, I want to take this opportunity and say that unlike most of you in here, I'm smart, i.e. A little intelligent. I think I'm the first individual member of Congress, although there is no doubt that in the past and in the present, people with all kinds of disorders worked here. I don't think I'm the strangest person around here at all. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u5	A respectable president. Many have opened the demand that tax be no less than 300 of you. K. per month. However, at the same time, data are published that clearly show that in this society there is a lot of money and money, but they are not divided. It is highly divided, and it is not unusual for labor movement to demand that pay be available for survival, and what standards have governments themselves made of what wages to survive? I went to the Department of Health Calculator, where there are consumption criteria for an Icelandic family and put a family like mine, three children and two adults there. In view of the total cost without housing, which is typical of home standards, expenses are 610,400 k. per month. The Work Programme is set at about 300 levels. K. The lowest rate, therefore, is not sufficient for two preworks. This is the reality of a job market, and when we discuss the importance of maintaining stability in this community, I do not get tired of reminding that stability will not be measured merely in terms of interest, it must also be measured in that people can survive their pay. Of course, it is the work of the labour market partners, but it is also important that governments contribute in all the ways that they can do so more relievedly, in order to form the therapeutic and pharmaceutical costs of these consumption criteria, to form in terms of access to education and in order to produce tax reforms, where we see that those with the highest income here have tax returns in ways other than those in the North countries, there is a greater proportion of the income paid for taxes. A respectable president. This is a requirement that must be acceptable to hide behind and support for the survival of wages.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u6	V.E.G. President. I'm going to call attention to the proposals of the welfare department on housing matters. The traffic patrol has returned the test results to the highest level. Eygló Harðardóttir by the end of January. Among other things, the proposals for the welfare of the Watch are the setting up for housing, which aims to balance the status of those in the tenants as well as those living in their own housing. As many people know, today's system is such that there are both rents and interest improvements, but there is no equal between the systems in terms of the scope of support for these two groups that they need to be improved. In addition, the proposal that the amount of mortgages will depend on the total income of the household, not on the number of adults in the household, but on the loss of the material memory of parents when children reach 18 years of age. As noted earlier, the project management of the future provision of housing at the Ministry of Health for the past winter produced the results of last spring. Since then, there have been hard work at writing bills that include: on the housing reform system, a new system. It is estimated that the originals of this subject will be discussed in March, and it is important that we take care of that bill and others are subject to improved housing markets before a summer vacation. I encourage everyone to look at the suggestions of the welfare department, and the suggestions for the projection of the home arrangements produced in the last spring, where there are many practical suggestions, many practical suggestions on the way to the prime. I hope we all work together hard to make this better for those who need us and our community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u7	V.E.G. President. Yesterday, in a recent history, there was a remarkable report that the later - looking distribution system of television was turned off during a formal ceremony. V.E.G. The Minister of Internal Affairs was assigned to shut down the system, which may be said to be a fun variation to the tradition that politicians will open up and this. The benefits of the new technology have been discussed, and most likely they do not doubt that progress is involved. A ROV report of the case reports that in the following days only the digital network will be sent out to 99.99% of homes. This is where the knife stands in the cow. 99.9% is certainly a bit high, but it's not 100%. I quote the Strander's comments from one of the community services on this occasion, by permission of a president: ▪ I hate that people have been pacing for this, thinking that they haven't been pampered on those farms on the beach, where television is no longer next, and no answers are to be asked to make up for it. I feel very strange and strangely hostile that solutions have not been found for the places that have had TV in the last few decades before the system was turned off. What a contrast to yesterday's newscasts when a addition of television services to the majority of the people of the country is causing a very small number of people to be on TV today! On the other hand, I trust it and direct it to what is happening. The Environment and Transport Committee that it will take care of the situation and there will be a solution to a small percentage of the country's population without TV.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u8	V.E.G. President. It's been more than a month since the tax system change, i.e. to the lower level of cost taxes increased and the higher level decreased, and several product charges decreased. It has been interesting to observe how this project has been done because it is urgent that merchants show responsibility and give it back to consumers. There have to be a few cases in which it is obvious that it has not been, which is intolerable. However, what encouraged me to discuss these matters today is a recent interview with the secretary - general of the Association of Business and Service, where he noticed that it would take weeks, weeks, until the loss of the sugar tax would fully return to the consumer. I thought, " There's no such thing as an Icelandic store. ' Should you believe that merchants stocked up sugar and sugary products a few weeks before the planned reduction? Or is it that there has been no evolution here for 100 years? Have men stocked up with the autumn ship and waited so excitedly for the spring ship to bring new supplies? What kind of compromise is this, Mr. President? Are you really supposed to believe that merchants don't do better than that? If so, they are neither their problem nor their work is growing. It is evident, too, that those who represent the largest commercial firm in Iceland in the Great Money clearly do not produce results in harmony with what they are paid. This reaction on the part of merchants and their inability to provide tax reforms to consumers must require special action on the people sitting here. I won't count it my way because it's one of the concerns I had for the tax reforms. [[The president calls.]] If they are becoming reality, it will be handled. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u9	A respectable president. In the summer of 2013 it was reported in the news that Iceland broke the European Parliament's rules when a sentencing committee in our territory was reserved for men. According to the Council's regulations, at least One woman. Brynhildur Björnsdóttir, vicecon of Bjartir's future, asked Karl Garðarsson, president of the Council of Iceland for the Council of Europe why it would have been decided to appoint the committee only men, although it had been known that this was a violation of the Council's rules. She received the answers that there was no agreement between the members of the committee as to who should be replaced by a woman. We got snorkeled and lost our vote for a while. Then, in 2014, the Independence Party appoints a woman as a leading figure, which I think has once gone out to a meeting and never attends a meeting and has not attended any committee meeting. The reports of Iceland's department show that the three men are experiencing epidemic activity, no doubt ending a very important work done by the European Parliament, and perhaps even willing to let women do nothing about it. There have been rules on sexuality at the European Parliament, and this may not be without reason. I think it's very important that we respect these rules. I just think this case is really fucked up and we don't feel decent, that men hang on their seats like dogs on red and refuse to give it up for a woman. I do not know that the rest of the committees are appointed officers who, in fact, always take the seat of the nobles. I would like to ask the head of the Iceland Department if it is not certain that the remainder of the term will be an active member of this European Parliament work. I must admit that I had not realized that European cooperation was so desirable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u10	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Brynhildur Pétursdóttir's daughter's iron for the inquiry. She is correct in saying that in the summer of 2013 a comment from the Council of Europe was made because of the way Iceland had been installed. As a result of this comment, the changes in our committee were made, i.e. head of staff and lipmen. Were the committee after these changes so that the nobles were the one standing here, Unnur Konráðsdóttir, a member of the Independence Party, and Ögmundur of Jónasson, a senator of the left green. The members of the committee were then appointed Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, senator of the Prosecutors, Brabbur Níelsson's son, member of the Independence Party, and Oddný G. Harðardóttir, members of the United States Congress. This filled the European Council's requirements for gender ratios to be correct, i.e. We'd have three men and three women. You're right about what you're doing. A senator said that one of the members of the Committee has attended one of the main meetings, she is absolutely correct. I don't know how many other meetings this person has attended, but let's get one thing straight with the Council of Europe. The chiefs and the defenders are just as high in that room. It is very common for nobles to meet, not at meetings, but at war. They have the same rights, they can vote, they can come to meetings, express themselves, do election service, etc. The fact that a deputy meets the head of the Council of Europe is not unique, that is, in most emissaries. Often the nobles are away for months, even years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u11	Mr. President. Unlike humans, we do. It is mainly in the news from Croatian country that the authorities there have decided to correct the debt of their homes, as this country calls for. In contrast, the Croatian authorities have decided to cancel the debts of the poorest homes in the country and thus bring the economy into a better state. The requirement to be in the debt of Croatia is that you have less than 35 of your debts. Croatian cows, corresponding to just over 0.5 million. Insemination. K. The requirement is, too, that the person earns less than or equal to 1,250 dollars per month, less than 20 of you. Insemination. K. They're low numbers, but they're high. Interestingly, this procedure is the perfect opposite of what was done in Iceland, where public funds were set aside so that they received most, i.e. More than anything else, they could expect to be in debt, who owed most and thus had no prior resources. That's what I feel. Government officials might consider, this vast approach to the government in Croatia and Iceland. So when we add these days to the information on the mismanagement of wealth in this country, above the government's decision to cut down on the richest families, and when we now add to the points of international institutions such as OECD on how harmful the shifts are for the economy, you wonder whether there is no ruler in at least this information and even wonder if the government is on the right side of its policy. Then let me remind you to the highest. The secretary of finance often speaks of the next tax assignment being to cancel or evict the step - apart income tax. Don't you just have to start thinking, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u12	A respectable president. I just want to include the consequences of tax changes, which were discussed only earlier. I'd like to talk about the food tax, or the sugar tax, which we members of the council had left greens and more discussed with the budget. This may raise a little bit surprising when we consider that the Ministry of Health was conducted by a team of workers who made proposals and measures to reduce obesity, which focused on holding the sugar tax high or raising it, for example, on soda and cool drinks and other things, while reducing the taxes on loyalty. In fact, the surgeon signed on this, i.e. His office of office, and it does not consider success based on health costs to reduce these charges, pointing out the increased risk of obesity and dental caries, which we are in other ways reacting in our health - care system and spending a lot of money. This is a study in The New England Journal of Medicine that showed that tax and tax price control can have a powerful effect and control of consumption where the need is most urgent when children and young people are being shaped, those who drink most of it. Another article published in The Lancet in 2011 evaluated the actions of the Australian government, for example, the most beneficial way to improve health and reduce expenses because of obesity. The conclusion was that taxes on disloyalty were the most effective way. A respectable president. Obesity is one of the most serious epidemics in Western society, and you wonder, of course, how it rhymes with the government's public health policies and measures set this year. The reduction of glucoc tax and People's Health, it's just not going to work together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u13	A respectable president. I need to start by reading from an article that I read an emissary in the Morning Press this morning, with the permission of a president: In 1899 Winston Churchill saw the same problems we're watching today. In a century, the Muslim world has not changed, but it has become bigger, more aggressive, and more vicious. Thus, the situation in the Christian lands as a result of Islam invasion will only get worse before it can improve. Western countries seem unable to defend themselves against Islam. This is by Mr. Halldór Jónsson's esteemed blog man. Also, the writer of the previous article, by permission of the president, says: ▪ Islam is not compatible with Western values. A respectable president. You get more and more involved in this speech. What a respectable blogger does not record, however, is that it was very comparable to Jews throughout the 19th century. It took the most famous disaster of all time to end it. If you go to the Netherlands or Germany, each human child knows how during the first half of the 20th century, the Nazis could separate Jews from others. They simply looked it up. You see, religion was recorded at that time. This registration literally cost millions of lives. In the end, it was not the righteousness and virtue of the nation that saved Iceland from Nazism in its time. It was luck. It may well happen here that powerful forces, domestics, or foreigns, will benefit from oppressing unpopular religious minorities in some way or entirely. That is why we should learn from history. The central registration of religion is entirely consistent with the lessons we should have learned from the atrocities of World War II. It is unacceptable that religion is recorded centrally to protect the financial interests of a State church. However, quite a few Jews are not registered in central land because they didn't want to be here themselves. You see, unlike white Christians in Iceland, the Jews learned from history. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u14	A respectable president. We are now on the third day a discussion of natural passes. It is not easy to think seriously about why this matter has been submitted. It is now that it is not merely spoken of by various sides of the Assembly Hall as having a disagreement, i.e. The members of both sides of the board of directors and the members of the administrations have expressed doubts about the matter. The director of a professional road committee is not at odds with the matter, and that is not a question of implementation or details or of a modern situation. What man disagrees about is really the matter itself, i.e. The basic idea of a natural pass. That's where there's a difference. And there's no small thing under here, that's the debate about the public rights, about the freedom of traffic, about the state of oversight, about the management, about the country's image, about the image of the country, etc. I must ask, a respectable president why in the world is at the highest point. Industrial and commercial ministers forward a case so poorly prepared, so unsuspecting, so ill - spoken, both in the field of the article itself and in the political field, that it is ruined before they reach the council? This must be the question of the day when we're here on the third day, we're discussing a big case. Industrial and commercial ministers on natural passes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u15	A respectable president. There is a government company, Matis, which is an official partner and the bridge that connects science and professional life. In this great business, many of the country's leading experts operate on food technology and biotechnology, i.e. Foodists, chemists, biologists, engineers, and oceanographers A number of employees have a Master's test and a doctor's test. What caught my attention, however, and I do here that subject is a story of the nature of Matis ohf. and private companies had been applying for and strengthened from the Technical Development Fund to 45 million since 2011. It's a good and blessed thing, but it so happens that one of Matis's employees is owner of this company, so it must raise the question of the nature of whether or what the interests of other companies are in Matis at such times. I'm not making the shoes lacking in the cooperation of this company's owner, the owner who is the employee of Matis and Matis, but I'm afraid to call attention to the fact that it calls on speculation of interest and how other companies in the same sector need to apply to the company for certification, products development, and other matters in that respect, a respected president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u16	A respectable president. We'll continue our discussion here on the third day of a natural pass bill. I will briefly review my comments to this 1st issue. but expect us to win the case and get reviews from the Committee. I hope we can reach a conclusion acceptable to the council. Of course, for this bill's objective, everyone can agree. It is to protect Iceland's nature, we want to build tourist areas, we want to ensure safety, and we want to build infrastructure at mass tourist attractions. This is to protect the environment, but also to control the flow and to help protect tourists'living. I think I can claim that tourists who come to Iceland do it for reasons other than when they travel abroad. They come from the pure nature, from the vast wilderness, from the stillness, from the unspoiled landscape. It is the experience we have to protect and take care that if we continue to pursue the country's largest tourism industry today. We agree on all of this, but the method discussed is controversial, as we have seen. I'm so happy to hear it. Minister's in the room. [[Up front.]] I've been feeling a little bit, at least. During the past year, and even longer, as the discussion on protecting the environment and the development of tourism are standing and falling by natural passes, because it has been in the discussion for so long. A minister has taken his time to win the case, and while everything has been waiting, he must say at the moment. But it is always possible if there is the will to direct capital in the ways that people feel important in each financial system. We haven't had to wait. Someone felt that it was important to direct the funding to some with a debt breakdown. The money could have been used to build timbers at tourist locations, for example. As found, money can be found in each of the budgets. I had planned to go over the bill briefly for the team, and then maybe it's the same thing that has been shown in the case of many members of the council, so I'm going to make this brief. There's no need for a lot of things to make up the same thing. First, it's management. According to the TV at a travel agency, she'll be taken care of permanently, i.e. I think I can introduce the natural pass to all tourists and citizens, sell the passes, and then there's another management. There's a million tourists in the country last year, and then there's all of us here, so it's a huge project to go to, and there's a lot of control. There's not much more in the bill on how this is going to be done, but if you try to imagine it, it's that in a travel agency, 12 people are working. One of them is an environment, although I don't know how these good people are involved. However, the bill does not indicate how far this project really is, how many people have to work on it, whether it needs to be added to the management and to this institution then or what. On the one hand, the tourist attractions that are supposed to be involved in the natural pass. According to the bill, a tourist resort refers to a specific location in Iceland's nature that attracts tourists because of nature and history. However, it is not determined which resorts to these are, how many are, and therefore it is very difficult to visualize the scope of all of this. I don't like it when we at the Council and the Committees work with laws that we don't know exactly what to do, because the rest is to come into Regulation, etc. However, hopefully and hopefully the minister has thought of this as a possibility that the council might intervene and with its own suggestions. Back to the tourist status and the lack of a definition or identification of the tourist attractions. I noticed in the case of a minister the other day that these popular tourist attractions, where landowners are already charging fees, as in my home forces with Geys, and, like me and Kerin, are self-imposed to be partners with the tourist passer, if I have understood the Minister correctly. I think that's very unfortunate. What happens, then, about the tourist who buys the natural pass, but he is so unrecognizable at the country's major tourist attractions, he just doesn't work there, and they have to pay another fee? That's just not a good image. But I heard a speech at the highest. Minister that she hoped these landowners would benefit from reducing their districts, under her umbrella, and working on travel passes. I have to say, I don't like what the bill looks like, it's all very vague. If people cannot rely on the sharing of capital, take Geys again as an example in which they will eventually get some money in the box, and, of course, it takes something to charge, but if they can't count on that coin or more, if they don't see any benefit in all of this, why would they want to go under the tip of the umbrella? Minister of nature pass? That's what I'm asking myself. A minister may have the answers to that question. There are three things I was about to mention, and it's time for the third. A travel agency is also supposed to supervise, from what I understand, but it is not explained in the bill any other way that it will come under regulations. V.E.G. The minister has mentioned a similar recommendation that will apply the administrative fines of 15 of you. K. if they don't have the right fit on the phone, or whatever the application will do. I have to say, it's a rather boring image for the tourist who's expected to come to Iceland in the vast, uncontaminated nature, for all that he gets nowhere else, and there's a guard who can fine him if he doesn't have this particular fit in this particular place. I want it to be clear, however, that I feel completely justified in charging tourists, but I'm not really impressed with this way, not at all. I want to be a little down, because many people have certainly accepted it in this room to criticize this bill a lot. I've been following that discussion, and I have to say that I've only felt the pain with the highest degree. Minister. I read the bill again and thought, " Is this really so that we can't find something nice about it? I tried to be clear. Is this one way out of many people? Is there anything else you can do? Would that be something? I don't see it coming. I just don't. Before we continue to discuss the other avenues that have ever been considered and can still be considered, I really want to do so. We already have the checkout fee, we already have all the wood in there. Of course, some say: It's unfair, it's just hotel owners who feel it, or they have to pay for their work and what about the rest of the tourist industry? I can totally agree with this. I think other tourism companies using Iceland's nature, using the infrastructure to run tourists in their experiences, they should definitely pay something for it, or indirectly, or charge their tourists. I don't have the complete solution, but I'm beginning to think that we should look at the reconstituted route. It's a nightend, that's a coming fee. It's as if many people have beat it completely off the board. I don't know if we have to. At any rate, I would appreciate a better explanation for why public charges cannot be turned down on the international flight, how we can communicate. It's as if it's a good idea if there's more work on it. I've read the basic ESA decision, or that's actually what you think. I don't think it's direct that we can't find out any more. Then there is the New Zealand way, which may be something like what I mentioned earlier, which makes a deal with a company that makes them pay a certain amount of money to the state fund to take tourists to certain tourist destinations. As I say, I'm kind of starting to think about some sort of mixed way. I'm going to finish this now, I've already said what I have to say about it for now. But I don't like it if we're starting to talk about it like that, and I warn that if you're with or against a natural pass, you're in the same way or you're not protecting nature. It's not like that. The government doesn't have to keep nature waiting, she doesn't have to do it. We can fully set up fences and safety and hygiene without being attached to the natural pass or anything else. It is possible for the government to find out that it is acceptable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u17	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a clear speech. I want to make it perfectly clear that I had strong feelings for many people. Among other things, she spoke of her leaning on some sort of reconstituted way. I think it's worth more than one Mass to look at it. I'm more and more inclined to just use the cost of stay, but I'm telling you clearly that I want a deal on this matter, a mixed route is fine. I understood why. A senator's role should be to pick up some kind of a comeback. I think it's totally possible. True, people talk about their becoming a local tax because they were flying on a national level. I listened to a fancy speech from a platoon friend. A senator. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, who pointed out that eight or nine fees were placed on the domestic flight, and one of them was cut off. I agree with that. As we have seen in the majority of the speeches, there is a contact area there. This case can be agreed without going to the public court. I'd like to have a choice. A senator for a single case on this bill. In the key section of the bill, which is 4. g., says literally that those with countries that own natural bulbs and choose to stand outside the natural pass can collect fees. For me, this would be a total lake front if this were approved in Icelandic legislation. By doing so, it would have been settled to the highest level. After a talk, a minister said that he was unpublished. In other words, it would have been legal to say that it was all right. I'm totally against this. I'd love to get some attitude. That's what I'm talking about. Is she against this? Is she willing to agree that the bill, if it's approved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u18	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. As I studied in my speech - why. A senator may have been a bit distracted - this was just one of the main points of what I discussed. This in itself surprised me greatly. I thought it was going to solve the whole thing with a natural pass. Don't you remember? It was to be solved. I'm sorry, this bill doesn't. I don't quite know the legal side of it, but I agree completely with it. Senator to Article 4. Doesn't make sense. Why should the landowners want to come under the umbrella of the highest degree? Minister of nature pass? What are the benefits of landowners? No one. [[Up front.]] - Inside, I went over it in my speech just before it could be the only option; it's just a minute away. paritaprevir Blöndalur Bömell, calling out here. Landowners have no guarantee of getting something out of this fund, no guarantee of getting something out of their natural pass. They just have to wait for hope and hope. They do not have to wait for hope and hope with their own testimony about everything. I'm saying that I don't think it's very exhilarating, but I think that's how it's done. To tie it in, the pass of nature was to be prevented, but this output certainly does not, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u19	Mr. President. That talk made me very happy. So I'm not the only one who counted speeches. Ministers, including talks she delivered in mid - December, all assume that nature and this bill would resolve this issue once and for all. We're going to rip our ass down here because of what was going on with Geysi and north. Then came the highest. Minister and always referred to this bill that was then intended. I always thought that the table should be cleaned, and we could deal with some solution that would be permanent. When I'm at the highest. The Minister will submit the bill, and it will directly encourage this in Article 4. For the first time, I see in law that a legal warrant is made for those who own possessions by nature to charge for them. What's wrong with me. I'm not gonna ask you why. The senator to the highest level. Ministers come here and say the matter is still undisputed. She's settling it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u20	Yes, we agree, though. A senator would usually say more than I do. [[Up front.]] That's all right. I believe that by talking and softening, I can find solutions to various issues. I certainly try to do it here today, but that's not what I'm saying. I point out that the case is before a committee I am assigned to. I'd love to figure it out. However, I don't think it's ready for the treatment that we have to give it, because there are so many loose ends. I'm afraid so. How can we take a natural pass bill and turn it into a reconstituted process? Is it something you just do, you know, knock the whole thing down? [[Set up on a professional committee.]] - Well, the pro board does it night and night, actually that's true.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u21	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. As always, the senator's subject is perfunctory, and I appreciate it. There were a number of factors. A senator mentioned. First only that nature is driven on and that we keep it waiting for the decision to be resolved on this case, I now have to answer the senator fully. Of course not. Last year, between 700 and 800 million were provided for the tourism fund. Never before had such a fund been put on such projects in one year and in one year. So it is not reasonable to say that we are not doing anything. This is not starting right now. When they say that I've taken some time to do that, I have to answer that, of course, in 2015, the minister who would then bring the group would be seated on this case without absolution. It would just as be possible to go back years, even decades, saying that that that time was not well spent. I'd also like to say about what the senator said about the excitement that she felt going some kind of mixed way that I disagree with a more mixed way of doing so so that all the ways that involve taking part here and part of it and part of it, and some other places offer a misunderstanding level. You might be concerned that it would not be very effective. [[The president calls.]] For example, there are many who collect the fee, and the allowance for the stay is one of the most unfavourable tax stocks in the world because there are so many subsidies for a small amount. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u22	I've got a solution for you with the host's fee, so let's just raise the amount. - I'm sorry. I should have started by saying thank you for the answer. Regarding the cataplexy level at the highest level. Minister mentioned, isn't this bill complicated? Is that not a complicated procedure and management? How much will that cost? I don't know because it doesn't show up on the bill. What, for example, will cost you to stay out of observation? What will be the cost of management at the agency that will handle this? How many people do you need for that? How many tourist attractions are needed? It's not really possible to dive properly into this and criticize, as we need to, since too many questions remain to be asked. That's what I'm talking about. The minister mentioned by decommissioning from a tourist market's enterprise that makes me less determined to get the problem there, e.g. last year, the portions have not even been used everywhere. This is largely because the farmers, or landowners, or whoever it is supposed to be, would have to come to half with financial support, and it is not available everywhere. Then the missions fell dead, didn't they? That arrangement is not going to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u23	A respectable president. This is not so that, with all the funding given last year, there was an objection. The special distribution that we made at the start of the summer was just so that no protest was required. It is true what the senator mentioned, therefore we are dealing with the fact that the people of nature do not have to put up an assembly. This is precisely so that many expensive projects do not become too heavy a burden to contribute to small rural areas. Something else about this is that the reality of things is, and the long - term thought is so important in this matter. I disagree. A senator: This is not a complicated task. It's not that difficult to get it on. I'm standing here and letting me say that it doesn't have to cost more than the 3.5% of the expected revenues. We've been through it, and we've done a thorough analysis. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure this will work out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u24	I appreciate the answer. I encourage ministers to show the council or professional committee the evidence to assure her that this way will not increase the misunderstanding and will be efficient. I say again and again that this bill doesn't clearly make it clear to me, it doesn't. I also hear from other members of Congress that it is not early light. I encourage the Minister to deliver the data that shows it. If I don't, I've kind of answered a minister of what I wanted to answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u25	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir A Björt Ólafsdóttir for an excellent speech. It was upbuilding, positive, and solution. That's not the whole point of the discussion that we've been talking about so far, not in all respects. Hv. A senator spoke of the reconstituted way. She also discussed the host's fees and due expenses. Both of these routes are discussed in the bill, in the report, and on the pros and cons. But there's one thing missing in the bill I've mentioned here, that when men choose land to travel as tourists, what do they first consider, Mr. President? The cost of the fare. What will they next consider? I'm going to jail. That's what I think, in general, is just when people choose land. It is not that the tremendous increase in tourism to Iceland is some physical laws that will continue indefinitely. We could get caught up in this, and then people need to start looking at the cost crew at their arrivals, i.e. The flight, and at the inn, i.e. Last night's fee. You see, it's good to have a fee that doesn't do either, which is the accessway, such as in museums and so forth, people don't consider it to be, it will follow. This needs to be considered as they evaluate how this will work for the future. That's exactly what we're talking about, i.e. access to museums, in this case of nature. I think that's what we're talking about. A committee, named as a boy. A senator on a seat should consider with a positive view whether this is not the best way to get ahead of the tourist market, and that it can reduce tourism currents.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u26	A respectable president. I appreciate the question. I must say, I disagree completely with the grounds that the senator brings up here. I ask, where does he get them from? Is it his feeling or is there evidence that will help people to choose only land from cost of transportation and lodging? It doesn't make sense, then there wouldn't have been a million tourists in Iceland last year, because it's expensive to come to Iceland. It is. If that were the case, we'd all be on Bendorm to get the sun in the face, but no one would go to Bali, you know. It's not just what you're looking for when you travel. It's the experience of the place, it's the experience of nature, and I'm amazed at it. A senator does not take the nature and experience and speciality that Iceland has in this account. I think it's very important, and I'm sure it's just a big deal. People collect for such trips as coming to Iceland, or most of them. This is not exactly where we agree. I didn't really notice if the senator had any particular question to ask me. I felt that he was more inclined to express his opinion. He then has the opportunity to do so now in his second reply.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u27	Mr. President. For example, the cost of travel is likely to depend heavily on prices and then on the fence. And then there are other factors. Why is there such a tremendous increase in tourism? That is because Iceland received a very negative global advertisement when the Eyjafjöll stopped people at airports all over the world, from all kinds of classes and races. It was a very intense, negative advertisement, and it still works, although negative. Iceland suddenly became an expression. That's why they came to Iceland, but once they've decided to go to Iceland or to some other country, the rest of the shows come in because of the fare and the lodging. It may be risky, though, to charge too much money on the tax account.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u28	A respectable president. I'm not gonna waste my time here to review our different ideas. A candidate for marketing or how negative advertisements work or whether Eyjafjölókull was negative or positive. On the contrary, I think she was ultimately very positive. And maybe we're what? A senator would agree on this, but let us take different steps to the same conclusion. Verbalism, it follows - that people want to go anywhere, travel, the prices are important, of course, but it's like hell. A senator said, after people have chosen land, I think. And I can agree with him that, of course, tax returns are important in this regard, to stay and arrive, and we must, of course, be careful about finding the best possible way to do that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u29	A respectable president. It has been fascinating and interesting to observe and listen to talks. Senators on this remarkable matter, the natural pass. The discussion has been quite affordable, on the one hand, for the public rights of the so - called and the currency in general. Those who have declared their opposition to the bill have generally contributed to the access to the natural spheres of the country, but I still feel that there was a very positive view of reimbursement, and perhaps in some cases better than that, for example, regarding access to toilets and parking areas. That is why I wondered where, in fact, the public rights pass away in the mind of these painters because they are in the second to the second. But they are in favor of some kind of payment because of a service they have considered necessary in some places. I've had a feeling. Some senators, some of them, go through many fields in their definition of public rights and explain the court quite wide, so I would like to maintain that the public court can, of course, be restricted. This is often given to interests that are much bigger, including those that have been valued by humans. ... witha reference to nature. I don't believe in anything but what. Senators may agree with me that it has come to this point that in some places in Iceland this public right has to be reduced, with the reference to nature. I'd also like to mention that I think here is a large or progressive explanation for the public rights that have been in force here since the earliest days, of course, it does not cover all kinds of human travel over Iceland's nature. I believe, for example, that the public rights covered bus transports with foreign or Icelandic tourists in some areas, such as those we know of, where river, for example, has become enormous. Of course, the Universal Court does not cover such human travel over Iceland's nature. Now, in my second talk on this subject, I want to note that the private person can, of course, take care of himself in these matters. In this bill, it is assumed that private agents will allow them to enter the system proposed to be recorded. I would encourage a private member to look to solutions on his own terms that can be more useful to them than this system. I'd like to finally point it to the why. A committee that now discusses the matter carefully and carefully, and options, for example, in the case of the State, and now I'm going to extend my case to the areas under the control of the State. I believe it is proper that the committee examines the benefits of hiding, for example, the park's governments from the development of means of funding for the operation of governments. I draw attention to the fact that, as I entered my first talk, the task of creating a Lakeh earthen park is to appoint seven people as a government that works all year long. What, then, is to stop the government from seeking ways to finance the maintenance and management of the Lake Earth's National Park? Is that not exactly the role of the government? It would not be out of the question, then, that such governments would try to do so with nature's best interests in mind and seek to steer tourists in the months of the year, which, of course, are different today, so that they will be more balanced over the year. I have full faith that the committee will examine various aspects of this matter and expect it to continue as interesting as ever in this room.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u30	Mr. President. Hv. A senator comes here to the core point of the case, the question of the definition of the public rights in this context. It's as if I don't disagree. Of course, there are limits to public rights, and this does not necessarily mean that organized groups of professional travel fall beneath him, at least not from the point of view of the law and of the person who organizes the trips. The problem with the approach here and what makes it possible that this route will never be taken and never be accomplished is the individual approach, i.e. to oblige the individual to pay for going through the country, including the Icelandic citizen traveling in his own country. It is a vertical contradiction to the public court as it has always been defined. He has been the right of humans, the people of this country, to travel the country, and he has set limits on private property from the age of land. That's totally in the way. It was forbidden to build parks across the streets, and it was more than pay for other people to pass through their land. They were to walk about decently, that's right. They weren't allowed to spoil the fields, etc., they weren't allowed to take more than they had to, but they were allowed to use the horses, they were allowed to take rice, they were able to hunt for survival, and they were free to go through the land and lakes, and so they should remain. I don't believe it until I see that the Independence Party is about to limit such individual freedoms in the country. I just can't believe it. I get dizzy when I listen to some of the Independence Party members trying to measure this relief with the highest degree of compassion. Obviously, industrial and commercial ministers. What has happened to the Independence Party, going to be a spokesman for this taxation, which in its nature is a restriction to public freedom in the country? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u31	A respectable president. I haven't been specifically measuring this way any other way. However, I have presented a certain double - skined person who, though, has given me careful attention in the language of both sides. Councilmen who have strongly opposed this route. I can live in private and personally agree that this route has some limitations. I believe that other routes are better, such as the ones I described earlier, that there will be funding and building up in these areas in each case. As far as the public court is concerned, we are. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's mask is likely to agree that in some of these places, which we will call natural bulbs or the popular attractions of tourists, it is necessary to build up, thus interfering with nature for the better of the tourist. It has been done by staging footpaths, staging view panels, and so on. I can't believe it. A senator believes that this is unnecessary. If we agree that these measures are necessary, the question remains: Who will pay for them? Of course, this was no problem before a million tourists poured into the country, possibly two million soon. The question is, who's going to pay for it? There we find out why. A senator might be on ideological ground. I don't think it's a good idea to consider the costs to the Icelandic taxpayers and that paying for this kind of building comes from the state box year after year. I believe the next thing they do is pay for these structures that go into these places and enjoy nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u32	Mr. President. What makes me the most ideologically opposed to this approach is the market area of nature, which I feel is hidden in this and on the other hand, in the decline of the public court. Then, in addition, this is an inert operation as it is installed on the bill, which is another story. Although visitors have grown around here very much, they have not recently come to realize that nature needs to be prepared to take on a growing number of tourists. In 1990 a large amount of policy work was done in those who are now 25 years of age, where they emphasized that the environment needs to be taken firmly, though this growing branch already used by tourism and that it would need to be taken care of to take care of. Walking footpaths are not some Spanish new phenomenon in Iceland. For a time, 10% of the free crew's goods in Cheflavík were running in the travel, including to the environment in this area. For example, it is an arrangement that is not necessarily crazy. With the growing number and growth of shops from south there comes income. Getting it out from the lawyers and the operators in this article is already just another matter. Then we are moving toward what, for example, the New Zealanders have done, that those who do nature's work, those who run a business related to studying nature, and going through it have to register and pay their fees. But there is no opposition to the individual, and neither is it New Zealand citizens; for in that country, I know that I think they'll be invited late to go out with passes if they should travel through South Island's highlands or something so along the way. Yes, there are certain places in Iceland where the situation is serious, but the reality is that Iceland is all a natural bulb. How, for example, will people draw the limit in the whole of Iceland? It's a rare thing to do, this wide country is. That is why, in my opinion, it is an absolute approach to watch it go this way and not to go on the street or to sell in any particular place. [[The president calls.]] It's supposed to be on public terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u33	A respectable president. Hv. During discussions on this matter, a senator has now described that it is in favor of selling into the parking lot and selling into the toilet at tourist places. It's a service, a respectable president, and it's the market. The market calls for that service, so it calls for action. The same is true of the view. The market calls for a tour of Iceland's nature. Although we here believe we own the land, we must allow the alien access to these spheres, and we certainly want to receive as many people as possible. There is a demand for a market we need to answer. There's nothing wrong with making money from the country as long as it's done in harmony with nature itself, of course. That's what this is all about. However, I have noted that I consider the main defect, or among the defects in this arrangement, that it does not allow space, that, as far as I can tell, I can control access to these tourist sites after the season as could be done with a currency that would vary from year to year. I thought it would be better to meet nature's reasons if it could be paid by various forms, not just road gates or gates into the areas. I have mentioned that there are many other ways in which you can earn money from popular tourist attractions; by building services, by building restaurants, by hotelstation, and the kind of car places, and so on. There are many things in this matter, as they say.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u34	A respectable president. As mentioned earlier, we are now on the third day a discussion about the highest bill. Industrial and commercial ministers on natural passes. As this discussion unfolds, the number of questions will increase. It is rather that my doubts increase rather than those of the other, I am speaking, not of the one standing here, but clearly of those who are to form a professional and political backland of this law. Class presidents of both administrations have not only expressed doubts about the scope and scope of this matter but, rather, about the core of it. The head of the professional trade committee, the committee to discuss the matter, has been able to express doubts, but at the same time want and know that he and his Committee are the means to contribute, in actuality, in accordance with the article and to those who are best acquainted with it. There's a lot of stuff under here. There are big issues that humans doubt. There are nuclear issues both in politics and in the vision of our association with the country. It is my highest concern for the public court discussed here in the way the last speaker dealt with it. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon is an anti - political force in Icelandic legislation. But the reality is that this exact concept, i.e. The understanding of the public rights and how to apply it and how to understand it is supported by reviewing the nature protection laws of these days and these weeks of the Environment Ministry in cooperation with the challenge. Environmental and Transport Committee. The way we understand the P.R., whether it is possible to use the public rights for work, is grieving in how the payer is conducted or how the output would be in that bill at the highest level. Industrial and commercial ministers are serving here. So once again, this matter of Congress is a sign that it is totally lacking in a government government government. It lacks some kind of perspective or conversation about what kind of journey people are. A respectable president. You can't, you can't have a bill at the council that's based on a certain understanding of the public rights while the same public court is considered in the review of nature protection laws. Then people are doing things in the wrong order. How does it make sense? Industrial and commercial secretary of the public court? It just doesn't matter, because that accurate understanding is being discussed at the moment. Environmental and transport committees in cooperation with the highest level. Environment Minister and Department of Environment and Resources. Until it is known, how the council understands the public rights, and especially in the light of the arrival of landowners and tourism providers, a bill like this is actually based on sand. It comes out of nowhere. It's out of nowhere. Then let's move on to other factors that cause you to wonder when you're in the highest category. A minister is on the other hand. It is that a minister who comes from a group of individual freedoms, which comes from a group that speaks in time and time against tax recovery, a group that constantly talks, and on every possible and impossible opportunity to reduce the surveillance industry, that needs to increase the efficiency of the system, that the minister should present a case that does what? Making new booths, new surveillance. New surveillance for what? By people's trips. By people's trips, across streams, into mossto, here and there, through the country. Suddenly, it has become something that the provincial minister of the Independence Party feels is in place of some sort of state's surveillance representatives. A respectable president. I'm just losing track of this political bitch right here. What is going on in the Independence Party?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u35	That's what I'm wondering, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u36	Also, you can think about what you think of as high as possible. Minister said, but I noticed that the highest. So a minister hung on the discussion with the background of the case a few years ago when the balance of the stay was due. The bill would be happy because the number of taxes in society should be reduced, so it would be a good thing. One tax in and another tax out. It's about the same approach as when you're at the top. The financial minister reduced the value of taxes from two to two. There are now larger numbers in the world than putting together one and two, but that is clearly something to the highest degree. The members of the Independence Party are in trouble. It remains, therefore, for the most reason in the world. A minister puts the matter to the head. I traced the situation here to the public court and then to the political position, i.e. The freedom to travel and the booth and the inspection and that there was not even political support for the situation, which might now be a fault if this were just the 14th case. Minister or 26 cases of the highest order. Minister or 19th case. Minister. It's just not. Here's the thing. This is the case at the highest. Minister of Ragnheiður Elín Árnadóttir is taking over the council here, and that's not ready. It's not ready to process it. This is the case with the highest degree. A professional driving committee is placed at an early stage in the matter. I express interest and desire that a panel of the left movement ▪ A green supply will do in a positive way to create a system that works. But it's from the beginning, a respectable president. V.E.G. Minister will give you wealth in this matter. It's an idea. It's a holes in an idea. Getting this thing started, this system, the new state patrol class for this amount is completely different. That's a hell of a surveillance system for $1 billion. The Ministry of Economics and Economics is now not known for being the most amusing member of the Board of Directors. However, it is not far from at least the highest cost. The Ministry of Economics and Economics is a sense of humor for leaving. I cannot help but read from the expense report, with the permission of a president: However, it is not easy to control the quality of the natural rights that has been paid for by the tourist attractions involved in natural rights. According to the Ministry, one new status at the travel agency is expected and will be subject to supervision along with another employee employed by the Agency today. And then the game goes on and on: In 2014, it is difficult to see how this plan should ensure credible monitoring of these designated tourist areas, which may well be viewed by hundreds of visitors from the Commission funds for travel to this point. How, in any case, will this surveillance take place with a million tourists in a hundred locations, as suggested in this gloomiest case? Minister? It is true that the above talks have been made to the council members and to include the members of the Parliament. in the speech of a man. Andersen The topic that may be most important is not the highest. The minister is approaching with this matter. Rather, the subject is how we should manage pressures at places with sails for tourism and tourism. This matter does not approach in any way. This issue does not guarantee that the distribution of tourists is in any way consistent with that of the areas. As a result, it should be noted that the Law on the provision and demand that are highly important to humans is not the law that best protects nature. Why is that? Because places and environments need enormous amounts of money, a variety of structure, according to their protection values, and the sensitivity of their places. Nothing depends on how much access is in the places or how much traffic is around them. If the objective is, then what is stated in Article 1. The bill, to promote the protection of Iceland's nature to the necessary structure, maintenance, etc., the principle on supply and demand is not the way to protect them. There are general nature protection principles based on research and knowledge of Iceland's nature, vegetation, ecosystems and biological systems, etc., not what most tourists are looking at or where most tourists want to get off the bus. So the approach reflected in the matter at any time. paritaprevir Andersen says every place should charge for him is the way of the wild West and won't lead us anywhere. Maybe that's the worst way. I've decided, and more members of the council have mentioned it here, that according to the law on the cost of beds, 2/5 of this fee is intended to run to national parks and peaceful areas, i.e. Waterland Park, Þingalva national park and the EEA for the peaceful areas of the Agency. The bill here suggests that the host's fee will go out, and there is no way you can see in the Senate how the Agency and the national parks are expected to improve that income loss. A respectable president. There we are talking about over 100 peace - related territories in Iceland. There are no other locations than the places discussed here. So people have to be careful that the number of locations that are the sails produced by tourism is the very places that are already under the custody and management of the EEA as a peace-installed area. It's so much that Iceland is a natural bulb. It is not a proper approach in this regard to separate areas or to a list of zones or attractions for tourism. This matter cannot be accessed by any other source than by general and broad understanding of the value and importance of nature protection. The solutions are contained in a general approach, in a general tax system. We've got the checkout fee that's given us a great deal. You can go that way and get it even better. I declare myself ready to come and try to resolve this matter; but for this the minister of the kingdom and the band of the governments needs to show humility. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u37	A respectable president. That was a good talk over the years. A senator, dramatized by the descriptions of patrols traveling through fancies and mostos. Even so, I think it is. A senator realizes that it is not what this issue is. Let's just leave it alone. I wanted to talk to you about what. A member of the public court I agree with in this context. I share that point of view, and that's exactly why it is suggested that people are not being followed for fractions and mostos but are being assured that in certain multiplicity sites, they will be infested by natural passes. At a convention in January 2013, there was trouble. Senator, now the highest. Environment Minister, ask for the public rights. That's what they said. Senator, with permission from the President: We have to maintain the basis for making a decision, nature protection as such, it's number one. The second is the most important event in the public, the use and enjoyment of the land. [[The president calls.]] Is not the senator still feeling that way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u38	A respectable president. Yes, the one here still feels that way, as it is shown in nature protection laws and laws designed to protect Iceland's nature, the law on Lake Earth, and other special laws. It shows that there should be a limit to access to specific and designated environmental protection sites if they are threatened by traffic. So it has been, so it is in the current protection laws from 1999 and is expected on the bill in cooperation anyway. Environment and Transport Committee and Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u39	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it. A senator still feels the same way. Then I'd like to ask you which way to go. A senator wants to start financing this resurgence at mass - fevered tourist resorts. She mentioned the host's fee, which we know is not enough. I'd like to quote another piece of paper. A senator from 2010, in the November 30th issue of News, has permission of the president. There the senator says: Since natural protection is largely financed by tax money, natural nature is one of our most precious possessions as a nation. It is normal, however, that the cost of living conditions and reforms in multiracial resorts is somehow carried by tourists. This is in harmony with the so - called use policy, one of the cornerstones of the environmental rights, and this is in accordance with the general fairness principle. Travelers usually show moderate remuneration if they see that the money is truly spent in a good position and ambitious protection from nature, which they come to experience. Is the senator still thinking that the modern - day rule is called the cornerstone of the environmental rights and fair? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And counting. A senator who may be able to bring the natural pass to that order?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u40	A respectable president. No matter what my opinion on whether this is the principle of the environmental rights or not, it is that and the caution that may be the heart of environmental principles. It is so that the medical policy assumes that the profit it receives will be paid, i.e. those who are benefiting from or enjoying. Of course, that is what the host's fees are on. That is what the coming fee, which has also been in the discussion, is based on. That's what worth a tax in travel service is all about. It is that those who are tourists, of which 80% of those who enjoy and use Icelandic nature, contribute to the state's funds and from which the same government funds will be provided for nature protection and development in tourist areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u41	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. She has tremendous concern for the Independence Party, and I thank you. [[For example, consider: Who doesn't?]] I think he can stand for it without this concern, but okay. I'd like to ask you what. A senator. In the Grey River, the public rights are insured. In nature protection laws, nature's rights are guaranteed. It's gonna happen. Has the gray spell been deactivated with the laws of nature? For example, people must not pass over mossifiers near the Laki fields, where they are immensely seismic, and only 10, 20 people must walk, or they may otherwise be destroyed. How's the P.R.? Can a man walk through it with gray hat in his hand and say, "Now I'm going to walk here because I'm Icelanders and I've lived here for so long that I have a right to it?"
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u42	A respectable president. I think that's what we're talking about. A senator now knows, it is well known to him that the public court is not an indiscriminate right to run the country any way he likes. It's never been like that. On the contrary, the general rights of people, individuals, to walk through the land in peace - to take no more of it than you give, to return it to future generations as good or better as we accepted it. It's the public court. The Universal Court is not entitled to bullying, bullying, or freckles. The Universal Court is the right to be at peace with nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u43	Mr. President. One man who walks over these mossifiers does not cause any harm, but 100 cause much harm, and a thousand cause irreparable harm. Which person should stop? Where does the protection against the Grey Eyes come from? Then he spoke up. A senator on the surveillance industry was preoccupied with it. Is there anything smaller in the surveillance industry involved in a bedkeeping fee? Is less monitoring involved with many other laws? Is it not just what the cost is, 1,500 bucks, and is it intended to perform a very specific task in behalf of tourists who will make it possible for as many as possible to pay it without complaint?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u44	A respectable president. I just like talking to you about what you're talking about. paritaprevir Pétur Blöndalur when carrying a volleyball of some watchmen who charge people about 1,500 bucks. ... abouttheland. Somehow I think it's a little bit over what I thought I could get into here at a church hall. I would've thought what. A senator felt that there was a difference between the issue of special men in a uniform who went after people of all types of communicities and whether they had natural passes and official monitoring of tax returns. I thought that was it. There's some difference between the two of us. I'm surprised if I don't. It is true in the case of the senator that territories face various pressures. It's complicated. Natural protection needs to come in and define when the limit of endurance is due. That's one of the things I mentioned in my talk earlier. There's no way a minister would come in. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u45	A respectable president. I'd like to go over the base of the bill for a second. It clearly states that it is based on a general agreement for currency. So the money doesn't exist. The money doesn't exist in the state fund, we're going to try to get more money than we can take from it. There are many ways to look at them. As an independent man, I can honestly say that if I had to make the bill alone, it would probably be more or less in order. paritaprevir It's going on. Andersen described it earlier. If that were to happen, local fees would have to be paid. The price would be much higher than what we are talking about today. But here, it's being extended very far in consultation with you just to make it a general agreement. That, of course, is what we are talking about. Somehow I feel as if we're not discussing any solutions, but we just keep pointing at the same thing over and over again. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u46	A respectable president. It is natural, so perhaps it is the first assignment. A senator may need to be able to help solve the problem when there is some harmony in his own order, perhaps where it needs to be started. It is said kindly because there are so many voices heard from the board of directors that you feel you need to start there. Because of what? A senator talks about general peace, so I agree. Some months ago, we had a very special discussion about these matters, and the conclusion was that all members of the council, all of them involved, declared themselves ready to come up with a common solution. But the highest. A minister did nothing to accept that approach. The payload is here, i.e. a problem that is ruined before they reach the committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u47	A respectable president. Yes, it's fine to hear that there's been an attempt to get a foundation, that's as if no one wants to know it now. On the other hand, there's something else I don't understand. This is a compromise proposal designed to respond quickly, to make money that we cannot achieve differently. Of course, we want tourists to pay for what they enjoy. I told you why. A senator just a few minutes ago accepts the rule of practice, agree that it would be appropriate to take money from those who enjoy it. So we agree. But how? Here's a compromise proposal. How should this be different from what is described in the bill? Is there any other way if they are to support the system?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u48	A respectable president. At least it is clear that it is at the council to consider a case, and the council must try to find a way. I hear from the discussion here that when you add up, people in general feel that some combination of ways are the best way. I mentioned myself a few in my speech, and in answer to the dawn I mentioned the idea of turning aside from reimbursement of a valuable tax on what is called a ◯tax fres over from foreign tourists. It is now a sum of 1.6 billion a year, which is not far from the number that is being discussed here. Then we would be talking about them as financial resources in Iceland, and we would be talking about how much they spend in the country. That is one thing to consider. I haven't heard that discussion yet in this whole context, but that's one of the things I would probably consider. But the conclusion is that it is the council that must do this because the minister did not. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u49	Madam President. Thank you for the sharpest speech ever. A senator who agrees with the highest power. Minister, she was in the chapters of dramatic, yet not as dramatic as her speech. A senator moved earlier today and was very brief. Hv. A senator seems quite trapped on the way to stay, and it has been shown in many of my answers that I am deeply inclined toward it. But I've made it very clear that for compromise, I'm willing to try to find some sort of mixed way. I'd like to ask you what. A senator on her stand, after the events of the VG if the pack has developed a reconstituted policy. Something else I wanted to ask you. Senator on section 4. Article 10, in this bill. Doesn't count why. How clear is the fact that this article, not just opens up but directly points to the fact that those who own natural bulbs in private, take up charge of their privacy? [[The president calls.]] Is it not clear after this bill shows that it is the will of this highest level? Minister? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u50	A respectable president. Yes, that is my understanding of what is raised in the question of why. Senator from 4. is actually being encouraged, it's being opened for private seismics to sell access to nature bulbs. That's it. There may be a bigger story, but there are other factors in this bill if you consider it. Hv. A senator also asks if the VG or the one present could agree on the reconstituted route. I feel that way, and I actually went over it in my speech that there was a combination of ways. This is about making money in the state funds that will then be set aside for these projects. Of course, there is part of it that has a merit tax at the tourism service. There is in part a balance of sleep, change and improvement, and with increased monitoring and emphasis on reducing black jobs - some combination of these. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's what I really think all intelligent people see is the only way in this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u51	Mr. President. As Lenín said, in our heart, we are all socipherese, and I rejoice to hear it. A senator would like to try to find his way into the social Ecstasy, an average way to do this and to look at the reconstituted way. She met the straight - up nail when she said that the big story in this, of course, is the change of direction that is being directly opened to what has never been done before, that men are charged with access to private places. I asked why. A senator's opinion of whether she reads it from the bill, and it feels that way, just like our pretty sister. paritaprevir Anna Sævarsdóttir was here yesterday. However, in order to avoid any doubt as to the position of the minister, I would like to read before and before the council. A member of the Ministry's Home Office asking if the natural pass prevents the collection of private clients at individual tourist attractions. The answer, by permission of the president, is as follows: [[The president calls.]] ▪ No, individual landowners can still, in the power of their property rights, charge the deposit in their places. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There is no need for a witness.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u52	A respectable president. Of course, this is one of the great news that is under the third day a discussion about the highest bill. A minister to open up a bill for tourists to enjoy natural quality or naturalmins in the country of that country. A respectable horseman. It has become so that Iceland changes its appearance - changing its appearance - not just for tourists but also for us as the country's home, so when it comes to a trip through the Lake band, people have to draw up the map or money supply again and again into a small rural society that is packed with nature bulbs. [[Up front.]] That's quite a change in the shape of Iceland. It is a transformation that we cannot do anything different from that of taking place in a far greater way than this has been done. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u53	Mr. President. I suppose it was fairly clear in my first speech in this case that I will never accept the bill as it is designed, and I was content with it alone to allow the public right to go about the land with a very large and completely without cause in areas where there is no reason and there is no such argument. There are two other material things that I don't agree with in this bill and that would lead to the approval of the same, and I believe there is a great deterioration from the current law on the host's fees and the current motion fund of tourism. On one hand, the share of national parks and peaceful areas of the income supply would be gone. It is legal and loyal today, with 40% of the host's fee going to national parks and peaceful areas, 60% running into tourist service. However, as far as I can see, in the reimbursement of the role of the tourism fund in this bill, the emphasis on existing law is being made on building new destinations so that the Commission funds for tourism will not only strengthen the improvement in many places but also put money on increasing the options by creating new sails that drag traffic into other areas. It would be a huge mistake to take some of the money that we build up for that work to be taken care of by the law. One of the most important challenges that must be taken to help the country cope with the pressures of increasing population of tourists is to increase the number of gates into the country and increase the number of interesting destinations or open access to the people in most parts of the country. For the bedside fee, people here have spoken it down a lot. V.E.G. In my opinion of this matter, a minister is very mistaken. Rather, it is unwise to determine what the cost of a stay is impossible, and mostly that it does not make enough money. It's easy to sort out and to raise. Secondly, the highest. Ministers say that the natural pass is so superior because foreign tourists pay most of the money. It's a misunderstanding. V.E.G. A minister is on the job not to have studied the trend over the past few years, which has resulted in 80% of the country's hostilities being purchased by foreign tourists today. This rate has increased rapidly in the years since collapse and with the high interest over the past few years, from over 60-4370 to about 80% last year's dishes, so that the host's cost is fully comparable to the natural rights in the sense of being on the ground for international travel. The difference is that almost all foreign tourists stay in the matter according to some accommodations. For example, it takes the part of foreign tourists who would not buy natural passes, i.e. If you come on business trips or can only take you to Reykjavík and the neighborhood and never go to places where nature passes would need you to come to Reykjavík and go to the Blue loo on your way back, and you don't need to show any natural passes. Of course, they would not buy it. We would lose a considerable number of foreign tourists who would immediately see the need for no natural rights. So I believe that the cost of lodging in the change of format and with these arguments is better, even if the minister finds a measure of condescension. What to do, Mr. President? This situation needs to be handled, and it has to be resolved. This council must do so. I'll try to run over it in one minute. First of all, we're going to accept an extra fund in the tourism situation this year. There's no extra revenue into him from a natural pass that's never gonna be. That's all it means. Of course, it would be best to put in a budget bill right now and set it as 3503/4,500 million. K. In addition to the tourist trade fund this year, the summer could be used for construction. Second, take the cost of lodging and make it better. They're going to raise it to 250 to 300 bucks. at a hotel, i.e. About two euros, and then a hundred bucks. In a boarding home and a migratory home, not holding anything in a camproom. It is to be assumed that tourism standards can earn money from parking bills, where the State has let the Arab parking lot at the mass - fishing tourist locations and buses come by group trips and parks. They can well pay 1,000 bucks. In the status bill for that. In my opinion, it should not be excluded that the fourth or third communist in this case will be due to a return to the country over the middle of the hour, a price on a ticket to Iceland between May and September when nature needs the most protection. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u54	Mr. President. It was very good to hear from a fine talk. A senator says he proposes a bedside fee. At least that's the beginning, so you can start talking about it. Hv. In fact, a senator wants to raise the cost of a very serious price, which may result in very low-cost lodging areas starting to pay a fairly large percentage of the money at the end of the night. But, of course, he cannot control the black business that seems sadly to be having on the nightly nights here, at least in Reykjavík. It's what it wants. A senator adds, to complicate the system a little, and have comets as well as from May to September. Then it's going to be a little fancy for not a bigger amount. I don't think that both of them are good enough to get the income that fits the bill. And both of them are having a bad effect on the prices of those who are coming to Iceland, on the one hand, the return fee, i.e. The load, on the other hand, the stay. So I want to ask you why. Senator: Is this not a good solution for nature, to reach out to those who enjoy it? So natural is a job at work. A committee that I expect to pass through these benefits, and all of this will be discussed, the benefits and defects of the host's balance, the return fee, and the travel pass or the natural pass. I want to ask you why. A senator: Is this not the best thing for you to do? An committee to work on and work on, because already the highest level. First, a minister discussed the matter, did she suggest that the committee make wise adjustments?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u55	Mr. President. The gratifying fee gives about 250 million a year, as quiet as it is, and a poor, flat price to a hundred bucks. If it were implemented as it usually is in the countries around us, we might go to about 13/4 euros depending on how valuable the bed is, as I was suggesting. in hotel attendance, which is more expensive in general than rooming in boarding homes or mobile homes, it is about 2 euros. That's what you get used to, and you're doing a lot of exasperation. Of the fact that black employment is a travel service, and therefore it is not allowed to raise the host's fee, why was that so? A senator standing to raise the sink of lodging now a few weeks ago? Does it separate from black activity? No. All this evidence can then be used to apply all the taxes provided by the article, and 100 or 300 cents. In the state of the household, this will not be affected, compared to, e.g. much higher numbers in the sink. You have to deal with this problem in ways other than theirs to say: No, we can't pay taxes to travel because some of the business is black. Well, then what would it have been? A senator should not support the rise in a sink during the night. You don't need that kind of paint in this room. In terms of fare taxes, I'm getting this out of the fact that what would be wise and logical is paying that price at rush hour, if I may cancel, a respectable president, a high-priced bill. Nature is the most delicate, then the middlemost is open, and the greatest number of tourists will come. Iceland's been through a lot in summer. What's wrong? A senator afraid? Although the arrival of tourists in July would be reduced by 0.2% because there was a slight return fee, would that be the end of the world? No. This could help balance only the distribution of tourists within the year. There was right here a nice senator, a party sister a lot. A senator, speaking of the need for a control device in an effort to spread the pressure better. [[The president calls.]] One way we can do this is by having a delivery charge on the canals that fell into the winter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u56	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answers. They were somewhat negative, and I was sort of fishing for something positive. I'm not afraid of anything. I pointed out that there may be some tax fraud about staying here in 101, but that's not to say that you can't put in bedspans, I didn't say. [[Up front.]] [[Take it up: Increase in the value of the tax.]] And the increase in the value of the tax, that's the same thing, except that it's easier to check worth tax. I wasn't trying to rule out anything. What I was calling out for was anyway. A senator, now I don't know if he's on the committee that's getting his opinion on the subject, but there's definitely some of his party brothers sitting there, couldn't they think of going through all the advantages and flaws of the ways that men have pointed out? There's three of them; that's a comeback, that's a stay fee, and it's a natural pass. Can't humans go through the pros and cons and then make a decision?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u57	Mr. President. I call it not to be negative to suggest here what I think is the most reasonable thing to do. It's changing and making better sheets. In my opinion, it is very easy to get it up to some 4,400,500 million. K. income stock, very easy. Of course, it would be best that this would be relative to the provision of lodging, as it is in a number of countries. I know why. Senator that at a hotel right here on the East Coast, American tourists pay 700 dollars for the night in July? What's 100 bucks? a nightout of it? I mean, people have to talk into reality. When hotel rooms are being sold at more than tens of thousands of dollars. That's funny. But that is certainly a small amount if you are being sold into a migratory for perhaps 1,000 bucks. or a host home of 3,000. That is why it must be changed, and that is how it was originally assigned to the council. Then there's the parking lot. At the expense of the state, where tens of cigarettes and hundreds of cars park each day, what about taking in a few thousand lines and then coming over a hill, which is very simple, and very strong evidence is that this is the case, arrived in the middle of the prenup and not over the wintertime? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u58	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for his review of this very controversial bill we've discussed here, and I've said it was probably the worst possible option ever. Minister. I've been strengthened by that belief if there's anything because I almost think I can say I haven't heard a single senator say anything about it, not just one. [[Up front.]] There may be one. What I wanted to ask you. A senator says that in the time of the last government, where many things were very well done, they brought in a bill that I can't remember anyway. A member of the council was a traveling minister who was expected to be a financial minister or whether it was Katrín Júlíusdóttir, the then minister of travel, unless they brought it both, I can't remember what it was like. But then, for the first time, there was a delay fee that had been recorded. The bill shows that it yields one quarter of a million. K. in total income as it is implemented today, i.e. 100K. Each kit should be used. But in that bill - and that's why I'm here. A senator to ask him to describe what it was like there initially - in the original bill, because the bill changed a bit during the council and ended with this 100 - dollar bill. I'll tax everyone, but not by category. I'd like to pray. A senator to recall only to us, to those at the Assembly Hall and to those who are listening, what it was like to think of the nightly fee. There were three or four groups, and just to address it as lower amongst those who sell cheap lodging, we can therefore say sleep bags, and higher then at a large hotel in the capital area that may sell to stay at $700 a night, like a boy. A senator was talking about earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u59	Mr. President. I have to admit it, like what happened. Senator I don't remember exactly how it was, but I could guess the Secretary of finance delivered the income section of the case, i.e. the host tax bill, but the travel minister what was involved in the construction of tourist positions. It was at least normal working divisions in relation to it, as is true of the Board of Directors, but it was a good partnership. The council was in it together, and they finished these matters together, so much I remember. It is true that the host's fee was submitted, the bill as specified assumed to be one of three categories, that a higher price was paid in a hotel, 200 k. If I recall correctly, and maybe the 100-year-old was to be in a boarding home, a prayer day, a passenger's home, and something like that. I can't remember whether the campsites were supposed to pay fifty bucks or nothing, but on the other hand, they were trying to capture something different in the mask. The fare, or the return fee in the form of a fare, was made according to the appointment of the council, taking into account the length of flight. There were three or four currency groups in which the fare was at the bottom of the shortest flight routes, then higher on average, long flight routes, and highest on very long flight routes. If so, she thought she would have the obvious advantage of being very mild to short - tailed flight routes, within the country and to the Faeroe Islands and Greenland, which, for example, would only outweigh flying to the mainland on both sides of Iceland, and that would be a good reason for that. This was not the case. The conclusion was that the lobsterism had better, and the fare went out, but the host's fee was sadly flat and ended in one smooth hundred - calling for all the sleeping units, which, of course, is a precarious move in many ways. The only option is that it is extremely simple, but there is, in fact, a reasonable connection with the opposition to the board, i.e. as any price paid for your stay.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u60	V.E.G. President. It was fine to receive this review of the class that was on the bedside fee because I told it in my first talk on this subject, and I'd better get to the next talk, that after this review and after reading these data and listening to arguments and objections, I've stopped at the stay-up fee. I'm saying that because as we look at how this is being done in various cities around us where Icelanders travel to, it's very well implemented. Now we know who it is. A senator as former minister that he and we have had to communicate with the European Commission on the implementation of this. And then the question is, because in the ministry data are found to prevent coming and leaving expenses, etc. - isn't the way most national countries are doing? Is that not the way, then? A senator who had a surveillance program in Europe would agree to organise here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u61	Mr. President. I think there's a doubt in my mind that we can put up a check, and I'm struggling to say as much as we like. I don't know that there was any comment on the current price. It's just that when you travel to Europe, it's about to have to say the rule, rather than the exception, that you pay some kind of price, and in some places it's more than one. There is either a fixed price in euro, and often in categories, depending on the cost of the stay, from one, two, I don't know any less than one euro, I think, and up to four, six, or it's proportional from 0.5% to 5.5% of the fence that a special tax or a environmental bill of some kind is taken, so we could definitely do it. I believe, of course, we can also accept some kind of return fees or fare fees, but it is clear that these arrangements need to meet the requirements that we might be made from the EEA, for example, that it is in general and that in some respects it would have to be taken into account. [[The president calls.]] I can't promise you that the bill at its time had escaped through a needle's eye with a class in its length of flight, but it was an interesting attempt to try.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u62	Mr. President. I thought it was a problem. A senator's positive attitude was a number of ways in which he could work, and it was hoped because it might be said that the assignment we are facing is to receive a large and growing number of tourists back to his frequent minister of finance. It was him and us and some of us at that time set a billion dollars. in an effort to attract foreign tourists. It is very clear, and it is fun to read it in a paper with a bill at the top. Minister to increase is precisely related to two of the projects we carried out, i.e. Inspired by Iceland and, on the other hand, Iceland all year long, and it's interesting to see that in the winter months, February, December and March. They lead as wind. A senator suggested some things. I'd like to ask him something special. He said that it would be easy to raise the amount of lodging so that it would give 400 to 1,500 million dollars. K. But I ask why. A senator: Must not go that way. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller tore here at his original speech and simply consisted of four times the price? Is there anything wrong if it's done the way they've tore up here, i.e. That it is gradually divided, taking into account the value of the host? It would be nice to have a attitude. That's what a senator is for. On the one hand: I hear that members of the Parliament downplay the payment that might involve paying directly for such services as parking lots and sanitation. What does that count? A senator, because he is so good in mind balance, that could be taken in this way? Of course, I was fishing here on a more mixed route. I think these paths should be taken. Then I'd like to ask you a question. A senator who has no time: Isn't this due tax on the land?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u63	Mr. President. I think the whole thing for a place to stay -- if we just take the entire amount of food for a room, and reassign that was relative, that would be best -- would be far more than enough to cover the cost of the innsuperversity, so it wouldn't put anything on the side. I refer to research there and human data as they were looking at the quality tolerance to increase the level of cost tax during the stay. A significant increase in the worth of a tax would be far beyond what the host's fee would have at any time - there would be no inconspicuous amount of money expected by men to date from, so I think that there are a considerable amount of room space, especially if the sorting or relative application was so that it would be considerably higher than in today's expensive lodging rooms, in the hotel rooms up to tens of thousands in the summer. There's a figure of a hundred or five hundred now very little money. I think parking costs could pay off a farm of money. Let's just imagine Hakak at the House where the parking lot is now expanding at the State's expense and putting on the fence. Let's say there's 100 buses and 100 buses on a good day, not less, maybe 200; a thousand on a bus, 100 to 200 on a bus. K. a day just as a parking lot for buses. What is wrong with a bus that spends between one and two hours in a parking lot that the State has had to build at Hakki, pay for it, and pay to park their car there, just as they do when they park in this city? We could be talking about a considerable amount of money, I think, within a few years of the construction of such a parking lot, thus paying at several mass tourist locations. But I don't quite understand the question of coming as a special national tax, hoping that it would be. A senator later explained to me his answer so that I can answer again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u64	Mr. President. When men have been talking about the way of setting up what I call a comedown, as a boy. As a fare, a senator has noted that those living in the country must pay such fees. There's an example of judgment, I think, that you can't escape the international flight from it. I'm telling you honestly what to say. A senator that is one of the arguments that have stumbled on me. There are two of them, but I'm not going to go out there. This argument might be said that due to its natural inhabitants, perhaps this would be unjust, with unnatural weight on those who need the best use of domestic flights. That's a strong argument, I think, but... A senator may have a different view. Now I know he's a great locality, so I'd like to hear his attitude about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u65	Mr. President. To the extent that it would have to conclude that the return fee, a ticket price, would also have to lie on the domestic flight, if we did not get along with the classification we were going to try in our time, to have the cost in excess of the length of flight, it is quite true that the international flight would affect and therefore, more than desirable, the domestic route. Therefore, it would be the best result, if we could get her away with it, we'd be paying off tickets to the country at rush hour, when Iceland is sold out, from May to September. There are natural and material reasons for that. The middleland is open, then nature is the most vulnerable, and then there is the biggest traffic and the largest number, and it would be very easy to explain. But we may not. Suppose we had to take any such price, if we went into it, on the domestic flight too, that it is possible to settle it. Either way, we're strengthening the international flight by means of a government service contract with Istavia to cost the flights, etc. [[The president calls.]] We can add to the service contract that would attract the sum that would come in because of a fare on the domestic flight and the result would be zero. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u66	V.E.G. President. Here in my second talk, in the five - minute talk on this subject, I'm going to stop by just a few more factors than the one I discussed the first time I had 15 minutes. For one thing, I'd like to say that I completely agree with the thought that comes out, i.e. building up funds to expand the necessary structure, maintenance and protection of tourist attractions, and at the same time promoting the security of tourists. This is basic, and I think everyone may agree with it. To these words I would like to say, as one of the executives of the employment board, let's say: Yes, let's hope that in the short time remaining to spring, before this council is over, to work a change, which becomes apparently large and many - even that the case will be completely turned away from the requested natural passes to another kind of price having the main purpose of earning the money, well over a billion a year, which is expected by the natural rights and being simple and easy to be simple in the format and cheap in the collection. That's why I don't like to go many ways, as this has only been discussed. The natural pass has a drawback for Icelanders who are going to the Þingles or anywhere else to pay, as this figure is assumed to be nearly 800 million. K. of this price comes from the Icelanders, or 15%. What is also a drawback to this is the inspection, the guilt, and the check. I must be critical that nowhere in the bill is discussed with the nature cops, I think someone has talked about, who is to be hired, who are to be observed whether or not the fit is involved. If, for some reason, the pass has not been bought, forgotten, or missed, the arrangement or known of it, then about 15,000 can be fined. ... withauthority as here has also been identified. The Department's website has questions and answers on natural passes that reflect on some of the ways that have been discussed. The negative results of leaving and arriving costs - probably border charges that could not be applied to the population of the EEA or Schengen area - also have the impact we discussed here with the international flight. A hit on a plane ticket, it can be done. I think that's worse because it weighs a lot of people in neighboring countries, the Icelanders, four or six times a year, should they deposit it there? Yeah, it would have to be that way, but I don't think it's fair. I'm not gonna waste any time on the natural pass right now. I think I've proven myself to be negative there. Then I'll come to the host tax. As for him, with the permission of the President, at the Department's Homepage: For a number of years, a Gristine tax has been at the hands of a population, and what is most precarious to him is that the income has not been enough at all. A respectable president. Those aren't my words. Those are words of the highest order. Minister. If taxes were raised, could this affect demand? Does not all tax returns, no matter how we deal with the tax, affect demand? Yes, I think so, but it doesn't matter how it comes down. Also, it is said that the tax has a negative impact on just one branch of tourism, etc. I've mentioned that in the last administration, a host tax was established. That's $265 million a year for 100 bucks. Then we just say without hesitation: If we were to get a billion dollars on this beautiful project described at the outset, and I completely agree, as I said earlier, we wouldn't have to have it but 400 k. We can record it, a respectable president, as mentioned in the bill of the last government, that the price may be higher in the best hotels most afforded at and below. It's not a problem. I don't buy the argument that the trouble with this is that it's getting more past the government. It is the work of the governor, who has been working very well to reduce the number of ways there are. I still point out that throughout Europe and America, too, this is a well - known way, such as Amsterdam, where 5.5% fall on a total price. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] And we can take New York, where the price is 430 to 930. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] They set it down, depending on the number of stars in the room, so to speak. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u67	Mr. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Kristján Möller for a positive speech. This is one of the few positive ones. I'm especially happy, Mr. President, for that matter. A senator is at ease. A committee to consider. This, then, is a growing hope for a reasonable outcome. Like what? A senator said that this is the question of choice. There are various ways to consider. The committee will likely go through the matter very closely and through the pros and cons of the points discussed. So I like this suggestion to look at all the routes. I thought why. A senator may be rather negative about the natural pass; he may consider exactly what he is, in fact, a positive tax, or a service fee; people will likely be very happy about paying that tax. That's 10 bucks something like that for foreigners and doesn't remember much about it. People are paying for the situation that is increasing in order to protect Icelandic nature, because on the increase, we see the appeal that is not because one person walks across a region, but because a thousand people walk over it and badly damage it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u68	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Blöndalur Bjöll for his words to me in terms of my second speech. I see a few negative results on the natural pass, if that hasn't been enough. That's 15,000. The fine. It's surveillance, it's gonna be expensive to let the natural cops run around, it costs too much in my opinion, and it's also gonna be happy to go with the people who look at whether they have passes and write charges if they don't. It's just not good. Imagine if we get caught on a bus on the Field or Gold Falls. We also have no guarantee that everyone will be inside this package. Individual landowners can set up bases, and our country is so small, it's so quick to go around. We cannot afford to have it so that a tourist traveling around the country would have to set out in 10, 20 or 30 locations to pay into a private area. The fundamental thing in my mind, and it shall be my work in this committee, which shall find a simple, inexpensive and efficient way, and then have the advantage, so that all in this sector sit down and agree on the matter. If we're going to a bedside minimum, which I like most today, I hope others agree to go that way. There'll be only one way, one way. It must not be so that many of those who own natural paradise do not want to be part of it and set up their own currency. It is easy to lose the positive that has been achieved in increasing the number of tourists in Iceland with a number of factors that would be bad and difficult to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u69	Mr. President. Something was thus reducing her positive outlook, but I still put hope in her. This is exactly the commission of the Committee to go through whether the private owners of the country would not want to participate in the natural pass because they save their fees. It's remarkable. People have talked about taking the price of buses at brutalized parking places. It is not expected to be highly expensive in collections. Some day, 10 or 20 buses may come, and they need to be employed all day to charge their fees. I think many owners of private positions will be involved in this because they save themselves the expense of debt and also because it will be so unpopular with tourists if they are paying in and out of it. They will even shun places where such fees are charged. This is exactly the work of the Committee. I hope that it will go through the way this is going to be done, how it can be given sufficient authority to this one inspector. But I think the tourist in general will be positive. He is accustomed to paying in museums and other items, and he is used to keeping an eye on paying.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u70	V.E.G. President. Because I didn't get it in my speech when it was spoken about the reconstituted route, or one or two ways, I'd like to say with parking bills that I'm quite interested in seeing if it can't be done. Why do I say that? So the World Congress Prime Committee was invited to the Þingvall of the Þingvall Committee last year to discuss the subject of the National Park. Among other things, we went up to the Hawk, where there were floundered parking lots and the Þingvagal committees wondered if the payoff gate should be set up. I have to say exactly as it is, it's a way that goes down in my opinion. The deposit of parking lots doesn't have to cost anything. She doesn't need an employee. I just remind you the evidence for my case that when we go and park a car at Keflavour Airport, we'll drive in there and put our Visa card in some slot, and all we have to remember is to use the same map when we get home and automatically move the amount out of the account. This doesn't collect anything except equipment and monitor it. This is the cheapest way. Hv. A senator mentioned that landowners may not want to have a payer gate because it is unpopular, but he also spoke about the debt cost, that it was so high. That's right. So I say, we need to find the cheapest way to take as little of our earnings to all kinds of expenses, though it's always fun to create a job, that's another arm. Hv. A senator noted that the cost of collecting was considerable, but it is also in the natural rights process provided by the minister here, which I understand that the government groups are not behind, the cost would be considerable in that process. As a result, it is likely to be. A senator was talking about our spending, or what? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u71	Mr. President. We'll talk about a natural pass here. It can be considered a new tax, and I usually object to new taxes. Besides, this is a market tax, i.e. I am also opposed to tax markets because I believe it is in opposition to the Constitution where the Council has the legal authority over all the revenues that come into the state fund. And we can see from many places that taxes have not been replaced by humans, such as the anticipated radio fee. But why do I support it anyway? Because it prevents another tax, the host tax, which is also marketed and very bad. He has not returned as much as expected, and he is not as good as expected. I support natural rights because it replaces another tax. The discussion has been varied, very variable. Some have said that they will never pay to walk through their country and see the nature that their ancestors have done for a thousand years, never, never, and go to prison, they are building lots of prisons to get them and their kind. There we go. In the discussion, members of Congress are saying that they are not going to obey the law. Now it's like there's a lot of tax laws that I can't agree with, and I'd like to refuse to pay, but I still can't think of it, I'll do the law. It's just that way. Men have discussed coming charges, stay fees, and natural passes. These three ways are discussed, and they have all their strengths and weaknesses. I've mentioned here that the coming charges of air travel to the country, of coming or discharge, may also be possible. It trains for the land, which is very expensive, no matter what they say. Someone in the United States, Japan, or anywhere who wants to go to Iceland because he's stuck somewhere or somebody talks about Iceland, and then he starts to think about the cost, and that's where the fare comes first. The low-cost airlines will be badly charged with coming charges, so these charges are not particularly helpful in creating demand for the ministry. Then there is the host's fee, and you see another item that the science says is that they go on a journey; how much to spend the night? What humans fail to take into account when considering the cost of transportation is all the costs. It's food, it's out to dinner, there's tunneles here and there, and so on, it's the unexpected cost of being surprised when they come home, at least to Iceland, how grossly high he is. All of this is not expected when making a decision to go on the journey, so natural rights have the advantage over the other two routes of independence. It doesn't have so much effect. It's not so much of atimey, it's much smaller. There's a lot of work to do. I went up to Keili a few years ago as usual. It's terrible, Mr. President, to see that a mile [1 km] of lava is being dropped under the edge of a moss. It's really ugly, it's like a hungry wound. Anyone who walks there will not be harmed, it is the number of people who cause harm. I've been down Catabeth in Thorsmark. It's terrible too, Mr. President. They've been ruined by natural beauty. It's just been ruined. I mentioned earlier in my discussion the mossifiers of Lagifur. They are extremely sensitive, very remarkable phenomena, such as walking alone, but as soon as four, five, or ten foots are affected by nature. This is the project, and it's all over the country. This is an enormous project. We can forget the conversation of unnoring territory. There are no unscrupulous areas because all the tourists have touched them; they have entertained them more and less. I've been to Thorsmark. There are come up through the mountains, on the trails of trees. Is that something like Icelandic nature? Oh, no. There's a huge steel bridge down the Almangane. What the hell is that? It wasn't like that, not when I was younger. Then they just walked down there. There's been some mess out there, the hand, and I don't know what. I'm afraid that already there is very much loss of Iceland's nature, what we once experienced, there is no more and never come back, because we have to build this ladder, we have to build these bridges, we have to build this hand. That's the real problem. The vast number of tourists to come to the country has made Icelanders lose unfathomable and much of the nature of the country. It's just that way. What can humans do? No, men can build more lives, further steps and further items, etc. and paid it out of a government fund, that's one way of saying, "There's so much money in the tourism business that it's a good thing to do. But that's just the way it is, Mr. President, that in the financial and financial discussion, money is always needed. There's no money in the medical system, there's no money in the education system, there's money missing everywhere, and then you're going to say, "It's no problem putting a billion people on it, we're making so much money. It's just not like that. I'm more inclined to make money, which is a kind of service income. Men pay for what they enjoy. I've been through the checkout fees and the coming and leaving expenses. I've pointed out that the price of natural passes is very low, making a lot of money because there are so many tourists. 1,500 bucks, the Icelanders pay them 500 bucks. every year. However, the discussion has even referred to the loss of one's house because of the 15 of you. K. A fine that would come if not paid. I don't quite understand the discussion. I think some people have gone to some extremes. But what men have noted here is that Iceland has to pay to walk around its natural habitat. This has been a great mention. I'm going to bring an idea into the committee, that the Icelanders don't pay. Now it is true that people may not be discriminated against by nationalities or such, but we could adopt a special personality discount that would be conditioned by the use of natural passes. We could just take a special personal discount that all Icelanders get, which they could use to buy natural passes. The Icelanders pay nothing. But they're talking about 1,500 bucks, Mr. President, once every three years, I don't know if I'd contribute this breakdown in the tax system just so that Icelanders don't pay to watch the nature of the country. Now people are not really paying to watch nature. They are paying for the situation and many other natural causes, preventing them from taking and doing such things, that is, what humans are talking about. There's been a little talk about public access to nature. The evidence has been made in the Grey Sea that people can walk wherever they can think of. It's not like that, it's been a while since the Grey Eyes were set. If I come to the Dark Citys, I've mentioned it, I have to walk on certain paths. I don't know what they'd look like if I brought some Grey-Eye in my hand and walked up there on all the goons and moss and would destroy them, not I alone, but if the others did too, I'm pretty afraid the Dark Towns would be bad. Route 1 runs around the country. I could pick it up with Grey Hat in my hand to want to walk down the middle of the highway; here I am going to walk. It would actually be a little dangerous, but people have talked about going to jail, and I don't know what. Why not have someone take up walking down highway 1 in the middle of the world to emphasize the public court? I think things have changed since the time of the Grey Eyes, and people need to take a look at it. The task that's waiting for you. The committee is truthful and remarkable. I hope so. The committee takes the matter as such, for this solution is urgent. They have hearsay and are able to read them, they themselves come up with ideas, and they go through the lines of research, and they find a solution so that one day in May they will have a solution to the situation. Hv. The committee will simply be called -- I challenge her to decide to work out a solution before the council, whoever it will be, Mr. President, because as I was able before, nature is very narrow and what is more, I think this is a much bigger project than men think. I have not heard of setting a path to Keili, for example, I have not heard of it, but such talk is missing too. So the projects are good, a lot of money is needed, and I see the natural pass as a solution.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u72	A respectable president. Thanks for the talk. I wanted to ask you what. paritaprevir Pétur Blöndalur would agree that the reconstituted route discussed here would threaten the price that each of us would have to pay low enough, just what we are trying to do. We're trying to keep it low enough for those who usually have to pay. As soon as we're raising the host's fee or taking something else, e.g. what was mentioned earlier is the trajectory of rushes. A senator would not agree with me that we were far beyond the price we want to talk about for those we are protecting who are the family here?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u73	Mr. President. The reconstituted route means two ways, or three, which means an increase in complex levels. That may be what needs to be considered specifically, what is involved in the misunderstanding? What is the cost of billing and due fees, and how does this affect the prices of the service we are giving? It's not that there'll always be 20 to 30% growth in tourism, it's not a natural law of nature. This may suddenly go back, and then they will complain about return charges that raise the loads and complain of a host tax that is especially inexpensive. I think that's what we're talking about. A committee should consider one way in which she should go.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u74	Mr. President. Thank you so much for the answer. I agree with that, and I see that doesn't make any sense. As soon as you start calculating, though we'll raise the host's fee from only 100 bucks. Up to 300 bucks, as people were talking about here, or even up to 400 bucks, to get the amount we need to protect the places that are underneath the bill, I can't help seeing both by them and by comings we'd have multiplied, even six times or more, the amount we're talking about in the natural pass right now. I can't see that there's a way people will be approved but, of course, they all need to be discussed on the committee. So I think it's nice to discuss the parking lot and parking costs, of course you could add that, of course. That's something the committee talks about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u75	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. Now, there is a certain level of evaporation in the process. One of them is the host's fee, there must not be any excessive increases, especially at the cheapest of the masks, unless one begins to make it even more complicated by picking up the host's fees according to the number of stars in the hotel. Then it's really complicated. I think the committee should be confined to one route. These are not such large amounts of money that they are making many ways. If they want to see how the Icelanders don't pay, I'll be the committee to advise on how they do it. But I could hardly remember it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u76	Mr. President. Hv. A senator noted that the nose tax he is an intense spokesman for, the natural pass noisy tax, is not a large sum of money. I don't care about that. I'm quite ready to pay that way, if I'm quite comfortable with the process of it and I know it's going to be a good cause, 5 yous. K. or 10 of you. K. Every year caring for Iceland's nature. But I will not pay a penny of me to be kept justice, which I believe to live in this land, to go through the land freely. I'm not going to do it, and I'm not going to stand by and I'm not ashamed because I think it's wrong and I don't think it would stand up for judgment. I would accept such a matter all the way before I would willingly pay that price. I once walked a cool ending in Iceland, as the poet Örn Arnarson puts it, when he walked from Langanes Beach and south to study, the other way, from the Smokehest River and the north of Langanesfont. My path, for example, was through the Rhineswang; it was through the Mosfellhach, the old royal road, the way down to the Þinglei, by the Almanga, by Vellina, until the fall of the year, to the Hofmann Table, through the Gordian Way, and on the east way of the ancient Embassies. Most of the time, I walked on ancient trails. I guess in about four places, I would have had to pass nature if there had been no law. I will not struggle to let this right man go down peacefully and with good association about his land fall. That's why. A senator and others who are trying to measure this relief simply fail. This is not to say that in all these areas there is a problem. Fallos is in a Lake Earth park and he would likely fall under the natural pass. If I come to the east to look at it, as I am trained to do, what situation am I using? It's the bare rock that goes on, and it's not built, it's the west of the river, but should I still pass nature? It doesn't make sense. There would be an illegal decline in the public rights, in my opinion absolutely clearly, for which there was no evidence.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u77	Mr. President. I think it's kind of sad. A senator with the longest political experience will not obey the law. Let's call it a night. The Commission will conclude, and the result will be a lot of natural rights, and it will be approved here at the General Assembly, if that is so. A senator has declared that he is not going to obey the law. I think that's a very serious statement, and I think that's why. A senator should now look at his mind. If he's so unfashionable about walking as an Icelander, probably as an Icelandic taxpayer or one who falls under Icelandic tax law in Iceland, let's put it into the law to make a special personality discount at 1,500 bucks. that can be used to pay on the natural passes, and that can be done anywhere. So you can refer to it, I have this social security number, I don't have to pay for it. I promise I'll give you that tip. A committee, which would then be a prospective financial and tax committee, which would deal with it and make that change, if paying $1,500 is such a terrible deal. every three years.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u78	Mr. President. Just to make it clear, I haven't claimed that I will deliberately violate a law that I consider to be correct. What I said here was probably the first time in November or December was that I would never willingly and without a payload to watch nature or go on a free journey across the country. I'd take that case to the end. I'd object if I should start asking for a match like that, I'd refuse to pay a fine. I would rather sit her off in prison, and I would go to court with such restrictions on my freedom of movement. It is different from saying that they will violate laws that have been judged righteously and effectively. But, of course, I wondered, when it happened. A senator and others speak lightly about the public rights, whether we have come to an ancient political issue that has raged for centuries, i.e. the position of the private rights and the public rights alone; that humans can ever have a share or that any part may ever be part of a common and social group. I view the public court as an integral part of what belongs to the common generations living in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u79	Mr. President. The natural right is to build a place for humans to look at nature. It's designed to build a situation. It's not to forbid humans to look at nature. I've pointed out ways to do that if you don't. A senator is so cruel to this 1,500 - year - old harbinger. that it can be added to the tax laws so that they don't pay anything, they can only refer to him as having an unused personal discount and they don't have to pay for anything. But the fact that men are so rigid in their meaning and reference to the public rights I just don't understand because they have to protect nature from this process, they need to be built on foot. I personally said that this was probably an irreversible development. There's a path back to Thors, there's a path in the Dark City, and I don't see them taken away, and it's never going to be done without seeing it. We're paying a price to protect nature, and I think most people will be willing to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u80	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndal is a happy man, and he often treats the Humorian program here on a speaker's chair. It's fun to laugh at men. He has tried to put us in rather than a poor light, which strongly opposes his natural rights and highest standards. A minister and a pretty Colombian portrait of us wandering in the highlands with the Grágás Sea and beating men on our heads if they won't give us our right to walk around the country as men have done. That's what it says. Senator: You need to realize that times have changed, and gray magic no longer prevails. That doesn't change the fact that she's gone as a legal peninsula, but there are many things that make her happy. One thing that stands unfashioned is that of the public rights, and it's out in the open in nature protection laws. Just to tell you what. The senator will, as far as I know new nature protection laws will go into effect here on July 1, the second, and the public rights will also be reassigned. At any rate, it is clear that this is the view of a body of elders. Hv. In his talks, a senator has often spoken as if by some turning point in 1944, the sentence of the Constitution, pointing to 72 C.E. hers. Of course, the Icelanders have had three constitutions, and there have been, in a physical sense, similar legal requirements in all of them, but in the course of time, there have also been laws laid down on the public rights and flats of these two factors, Constitutions and public rights, it has been extremely good until this bill comes. However, there are only two members of Congress who have spoken as the private right, as they are protected in the Constitution, from the public court. It's the highest. Minister and there's a problem. paritaprevir Blöndal H. Burgor. It's like those fine senators and the highest. Ministers do not understand that there are a wide range of conditions that are placed on the rights and rights of property. A senator has voted with many of them. I could list these songs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u81	Mr. President. The Constitution states that the right of possession is not fruitless, that it can be taken out, but it can be taken care of. I respect the public court a lot, and I think of it as very sacred, but when we get into the position that it's not just one man who's causing damage, it's 100 or 1,000, so you don't talk about 20 or 30 or 50 grand that's going to have to do something, something's gonna happen. I know why. A senator does not want nature to succumb, although it has already done and has become very urgent to offer some solution that protects nature from the insurrection of the masses that it simply does not tolerate. I mentioned Keili, I mentioned Catabeth, etc. It's in many places that we can see the indiscriminate appeal. I can't believe it. A senator wants it to pass on to the public court, I don't believe it, so something has to be done. I think there's going to be a path down the Cat's ridge, a worm path. I suppose it'll be ugly like anything else that's been done. Tourists will stay on these roads, away from Grey River, public rights, etc., and they will be careful not to destroy nature with their number, not each one, but that the masses will not destroy nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u82	Mr. President. I like what you're doing. A senator gave up flaying the public rights. I'd like to say honestly that I love to hear from him that he thinks the public rights are important to him if he did not mention in his speech earlier that he was sacred. I've had a what? A senator on error, at least in my mind, for I have listened to him speak very strongly about the rights of possession and the constitution on the one hand and the public rights, and I have submitted to his case until this speech that he sees the right of possession to push everything else over the grave and death. Fine. So we agree on that. Then we can try to see how these two can be brought together into a comfortable neighborhood. I agree with him that under certain circumstances, the public rights can be dangerous. For example, let us take arms wells, one of the areas in which we live, which are very difficult to predict as a means of uninjured by the increasing stream of tourism. But neither the suggestions nor the suggestions. A senator has spoken before, or I to this end have saved his case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u83	Mr. President. Now it's like we're gonna what we're gonna do. All members of Congress have sworn oaths to the Constitution, and it contains a law on the rights of property. You can't talk about a so-called ownership rights or private rights, talk it down somehow, it's down there, and you can't leave unless the current constitution is changed, the one in force. A portion of the owner can be taken for a price, and that is a law on many people. You see, the general rights of nature, not only the right of property, but nature as well. I've repeatedly said that one man does not harm, 10, even 100 do not harm, but when it is 10,000 or 50 thousand, it can cause irreparable damage to nature. Therefore, each one must obey the rules of walking in paths and such, from all the public rights and witness in the Grey Sea.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u84	A respectable president. I was going to comment on the subject that is under discussion and that has caused much controversy in my community, and I will continue to do so. First of all, the discussion that has been conducted here in the public rights and in the case of private ownership under the Constitution is to bear in mind that the public court is a fundamental part of the national legal system, just as the private right. The establishment of the private rights did not upset the public rights. The Universal Court, the right to free, others to harmlessness, can be compared to the efforts of the nation in all the earth that submits to the exclusive rights. In other words, it is a traditionally sanctimonious limitation of the private rights of those who own land. So it is not that the public court in some way is the opposite of the private property. It is a normal restriction and has a natural limit to personal property. In the bill under discussion, my way is becoming very unwise, unwise, to solve specific problems. The problem is the guy we just described was pretty good with the wind. paritaprevir Blöndalur H. Covenan. In some areas, the number of people they want to see is too much to allow sensitive bulbs to withstand. But then it pays not to jump to conclusions on the basis of facts. It's not that it applies to all the spheres of nature, it's not that all of them are equal in nature. The fundamental concept of remuneration must be in line with the risk that nature is lost. V.E.G. In their discussion of the matter, a minister has often referred to a license in current nature protection laws and in the later natural protection laws that were approved here in the spring of 2013. It is worth considering, however, that currency is bound to nature's habitats, defined as nature protection areas, not every tourist resort, not what is called; a place that attracts tourists because of nature and history. And not even naturalism, not even having to be connected to nature, may therefore be a collection of history or a history site. In current nature protection laws, natural protection areas are defined as a non-violent region, i.e. National parks, reservations, peoples. Other areas and forms of nature that are on the planet's list and special areas on land and sea that are protected by other laws because of nature or landscape. So it is clearly defined as "the territory to be considered. " And the currency, who can it be, in accordance with the 92nd of current nature protection laws? Yes, it can be as follows: The EEA or the person entrusted to the environment's operations may provide a fee for services rendered. The recruiter [...] may further determine a specific amount of access to the area if there is a damage caused by tourists or a risk of such damage, which should be used for monitoring, repair and development of the area or access to it. In other words, if there is damage in the area or impending damage, payment can be provided, but the cost must be fully paid for monitoring, repairing, or building the area. The bill under discussion does not contain any such limitations at all. I have previously mentioned that the payment warrant is not restricted to natural bulbs, but to all the tourist attractions defined as something to tourists by nature and history, and not otherwise defined. What is a tourist attraction to tourists by nature and history? A defined location in Iceland's nature doesn't have to be anything more than, I mean, the Caddy floor that's why, Ingolfs Mountain could fall under, something that everybody knows what is and some people are interested in seeing. Nor is this created, such as in nature protection laws, a closed system where a price is imposed that must be applied to the situation itself. No, no, a new tax is laid here, a general tax pay that runs into a state fund, and the approval comes from every word in the financial office, where it is discussed, of course, that the fee runs completely into the state's budget. New tax. Who, then, has come here to sing their praises? One of the Independence Party members. Yes, it's the tax agent himself. paritaprevir Blöndal H. Burgor. It was different before me that he offered a complimentary speech about a new type of taxation, which is general taxation, in no way specific. [[Up front.]] Says 1st. bill: To achieve that goal, the law of these regulations requires that the funds of the state be made by the version of nature passes. - Special tax. --of their distribution is required in the European Commission Actual Fund for tourism. In other words, there is nothing more solid in the fact that this new tax is used for building tourist facilities than the current cost. This year and year, from what is expected in the current payment, the government has twice on budget reduced donations from the European Commission's European Commission's European Commission, the European Commission, and the Member States. In other words, the government that has proved to be a twofold failure to reduce the tax that is already laid to raise money for tourism, asks permission to reimburse a much higher tax for the same purpose. And who will trust this government to give them money? This is a new tax saving system, completely unrelated to the risk of damage to restricted tourist areas. There is no guarantee that the budget will come for protection and building at the tourist positions; the fee will go strictly into government funds. Another major fault is that this law is, in effect, a general rule of payment by tourists who prefer to visit regardless of whether it's natural or just other places. Thus, the foundation is completely pulled away from free passage in a wide sense, for this includes private agents who have something that tourists might want to see granted open access to charge fees for access to such areas. It has been determined whether the owners of Geysi are authorized by the current law to collect a fee and a law order has been passed on to them. This is a legal issue. Here comes the minister and says: "Well, we're just going to create a new field of land, so that the tax collectors of the government become a principle and that people in general will have to pay for what they want to see. It doesn't even have to be natural. The case is now 18 months after the Supreme Court. Then a minister said that moving the case would be a priority. The long term of an elephant's pregnancy may be said to have been not particularly well spent, since the birth that must be declared just as it is, after having heard a discussion in Genesis chapter 1. Umr., can't be considered a particularly viable obstacle. At any rate, there are no midwives running to catch the storm and try to blow life into it. You notice that on the part of government officials it is more obvious that this is not a viable project. I therefore must mention, of course, that it is very special to approach the project on the grounds that it is a priority to ensure funding due to interference in tourist areas, then to use power, as the government has done with the majority of power at the General Assembly, with two budgets to reduce legal funding for building at tourist locations two years in a row, and then to come here, not with a suggestion for clear markets and earmarking of tourism, but with a new general tax that is supposed to flow into the state and completely below the heels in any way and in order to build up. Also interesting is the fact that because of a delay in the case, it is quite clear that this system, even if it becomes a reality in our time, will never be fully ready until the summer of 2017. It will only then be possible to do so, on the basis of this budget, based on the income of one year, not on three, but on one year. Then, in the summer of 2017, the nation will be out of control so that the system of this system may at any time be funded by three years of funding. The price will be first paid in the autumn months of the next year, and as a result, a whole year of funding will not be ready until the fall of 2016, which means that it is first in the summer of 2017 something can be done compared to the funding of one year of accumulated. At the end, however, I'm going to say that it is of course an option on the subject how much money is thought to be possible in this way, that could be 3 billion, according to the mass of tourists, according to the cost-employment analysis of the budget. There are, however, so many ways to cope with the problems we face. The real problem is that some natural bulbs cannot cope with harassment. It's important to secure structure there, and it's normal to take some kind of fees to secure them. They may have a small amount of room - to - house fee. Attendance can be implemented as well. It is also possible to access the largest parking lot where people very simply, in the same way as we have discussed today, a credit card will be placed on a machine at the time of parking lot and taps open. It is a well - known route in many countries, and it ensures that those who come and enjoy it contribute something to the facility in the form of parking lots, toilet facilities, etc. A community of these ways is in my mind the wisest way to keep following us. However, this natural rights route has the obvious advantage of creating a new population and making a general expectation that the land is closed, not open. That's the big trouble with this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u85	A respectable president. It is now taking place in the packed stream to review all the negative factors involved in this case that have now taken three days of the few remaining days of this council, solely during the first discussion. (b) What questions remain to be answered? In the spring months, if the matter was to be concluded at that time, it would take quite a lot of time. It does, however, suggest that the bill does not assume that it will return money until after some time. It is not necessary to complete it at the spring council, and it may be difficult to regret the great criticism the bill has brought from members of all political parties at the council that unity is reaching out for some relief during the short time that remains of this council. It's too late for the case to come in until now after statement at the highest level. Minister immediately at the beginning of the season for immediate action. It was a significant case during the last term and is really a sin that the way that had been established at that time was not to be used better and immediately by the current government, especially after the results of conversation with the article itself, tourism, that the profession itself, the organization of tourism, gave particular reason to use this purpose on the way of opening up during the last term, i.e. Last night's fee. They should not create a new tax system, not a new tax system, but simply use the existing system, the existing surveillance, the existing tax, and raise the amount of money they would be paying and possibly make some minor internal adjustments in harmony. That would have been the most simple solution to this subject, and it could have taken effect as soon as it began to accomplish much building work on our important elements right away. Rather than follow the simple route, the way the article itself suggested and the way that had not been complicated by the tax system, the costs of a new system, or other such disorders, the minister chose for some incomprehensible reason to come in with a new way that, in reality, will not be of any benefit to him, as it were. paritaprevir The Árni Páll's Árnason years were well over here, until the time of the ultimatum. A minister will be completed and it really is another man's watch. Of the ways that have been discussed, I think it is absolutely clear that the defect was the worst of all the natural passes proposed by the Minister. Other ways mentioned have certainly been taken if the host's fee is not sufficient to finance the project, which the article considers to be, and I think all the grounds are in place, since the so - called automobile routes, at least If it is the official who builds up the parking lot and collects access to them, and the return is a means for which there is a physical basis, and there is every reason for serious consideration. The topic of discussion. The way to determine if both Icelanders and our foreign guests have paid due fees to enter the major natural areas of the country, to have them undefined to be online somewhere, and that they can change from one time to another the area that falls under such taxand surveillance, and that they intend to have some nature prices for all soils, such as the testimonials in Reykjavík, to stand up at work at different times of the day when it is unwise to examine Iceland's nature, is fundamentally a bad idea. It's a bad idea to have a system that will likely call for dozens of employees on national surveillance, some kind of nature guard watching the individual free movement across the country. No one has ever been able to explain how to comply with the guilt laid down in the bill. In what way will people collect 15 up yours? K. A fine of a foreign tourist flying from here on a plane the day after the night watchman appeared to see Icelandic nature? Are they going to send an international collection company after the tourist in order to demand it? Doesn't anyone know how difficult it has been with the parking bill? However, they are put in the case of foreign tourists on the automobiles that are here on the rental companies and are thus hanging on them. I think these faults, the surveillance, the measure, the idea to charge the Icelanders in general for looking at their own nature, are all faults in which each individual is sufficient to resolve the matter. On the other hand, I would like to say that the way in which the head of a professional company has been listed, the parking route and the arrivals, can be carried out by a lot of revenues, and if it is the public or the road model that builds up a parking lot and collects access to them, I don't see why they're here. It would, of course, be a goal if there was to be an unlimited provision for private servants to examine the nature of the land. Whether such a route can be supported is primarily a question of exporting. As for the return fee, you have to go through a few interests. It is true that countries with a high level of harassment, such as England, have submitted border costs to anyone who lands there. There are countries with a lot of overexploited to get there. We need to evaluate it before contributing such fees, so to speak, whether we want to raise the threshold. It may be contrary to the contracts that we are party to pay for these costs, at least if they are not related to the border costs, and that is why this aspect of the matter must be considered very carefully. There must also be an assessment of the cost of flying to Iceland. I think that with the low-cost airline that here, the most important thing to do is to take tourists to the country 12 months a year, we already have the most expensive airports on which that society flies. A careful assessment of this needs to be conducted in a given moment. Whether or not to raise the cost of landing here. This can have a direct effect on tourism to the country. This is better known than it has to be said to have been a major investment and a growing investment, including some of them. in hotel buildings, decades of investments based on us keeping the number of tourists we have, and we keep them, not by losing strong parties in drawing people to the country as powerful low-cost airlines have been doing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u86	Mr. President. You can ask yourself, " Why are we standing here talking about this bill? ' There is very limited support. Some members of the council have declared support, and it is hardly a minister's own case. How disappointing it is that after the two years of this government, this conclusion is from how to secure income to build up tourist areas. I would like to begin by saying that little is urgent, but the tourism service for our future exports, it has been the largest exports of transport services in 2013, I don't know what it was in 2014, but the tourism service is one of three mains in Iceland's export. But the main way to get their income is the spectacular nature we have and attract down to a million people each year, and the number of them is increasing. There are, of course, much more than the natural world that comes with it, especially music. In order to keep Iceland a popular stop and thus maintain our exports from this article and its activities, we need to guard against the priceless natural bulbs that foreign tourists are reaching home. In many places we are about to destroy these pearls, and the environment becomes less desirable. When people are talking about coming to where the appeal has become so intense, it is more painful to see damage on nature than to enjoy it. So it is very important to respond to the demand to build up these places, as well as to develop new places. The natural pass can be found in many ways. First, it is a perfect violation of a prince's ability to travel in his country free of charge. That alone is enough to be totally opposed to this matter, because this is an important princely act that is not acceptable to the public court. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] The other factor to note is the important thing, although it is not so much a princely matter. It is odd to enter such a tax system, estimated that income will be a billion a year, over a billion if the number of tourists becomes as planned, at such high cost. It's an amazingly complex and dramatic system. It is good to remember that when it was due to be paid for the stay, which, though, is involved in the collection that takes place, many thought it was quite complicated and inexplicable. Here we are creating a completely new fee with the administration of all types and not just that, but it's a big deal to monitor that people pay the price. It hasn't been properly explained how to perform the reading of the financial bill, it seems that there is one more status value that has more or less to cover this. It is estimated that the target cost, the temporary market cost, is 92 million. K. I don't quite understand, but those who come to the country to buy to most of this match need to get a presentation. There must be a persistent presentation of the passes. The current annual cost is estimated to be about 23 million. K. Then there's the people who are publishing the card and monitoring and other organisations. This must be a total underestimate, unless the surveillance is to be out of place. It just means that people will soon realize that they don't have to buy this match.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u87	Most people are honest.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u88	If it doesn't have to buy a pass, we don't get money from it, and then we don't have money to build up in tourist areas. It's the monopoly, Mr. President, that this case cannot be legal. There are much easier ways to earn these. One thing is to put room service into the higher level of value tax. It was now the first task of the government to turn down the cost tax of lodging. The balance of the home could be raised. Comets are obvious choice and very simple. In addition, it is the most efficient way to earn money for building. Also, there are a number of services that are naturally viewed. It is natural to examine the overall nature of other measures that if there is a local service, such as parking lots and toilets, and so it is natural for people to pay access to it. It is seriously that these funds need to come in now. We've been waiting way too long for income. It may be the largest job of the employment committee if this court-day bill gets in there, not putting it out, because I don't think it can be done, but to assist a minister in finding ways to hire, making sure that it is not undermined by the sector because nature that is being sold must be so consumed and subjugated that some of these places are not really possible to visit. So I stick to the bill, though it's odd in the light of a little support, I'm very disturbed by reading what turns on to non-vitalists, countries who own land and have decided to sell it. There's nothing to prevent such things, there's supposed to be some sort of gold digging theme, the owners of a popular position can begin to sell on them, but they're also supposed to be able to apply for the tourism fund. It must be amazing, but perhaps in the spirit of the Independence Party, the Icelandic taxpayers pay off jobs instead of competing for market leaders. Mr. President. I'd like to say again that in the first place it is impossible to accept this matter, considering that it is a violation of the fundamental princely rule that the Icelanders will be free to travel throughout their country. Second, it's an inefficient and foul way to raise money. There are a number of income stocks that we already have that can be raised or made that can be collected effectively. I hope to find a way to build up and maintain the most important tourist places in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u89	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. I can't agree that there are simpler ways to solve this problem. I think we have a relatively simple route by hand, a form of perfunctory. She's flexible. It can be placed right away without trouble. We were going to get money in there right away. The ways I feel are wrong. A senator has been talking about, for example, the way to stay, and if you take it and other ways, it always comes out with the cost of the people who live in Iceland multiplying. The aim of a natural pass is to try to protect the family here and to take the cost more and less from the mass that is added at the tourist positions and is preferably to visit them. That's the goal of the bill. I believe that the route there is quite a way to achieve that goal. I can't say that the way to stay is better than the ways in the bill. Then I think the surveillance is quite remarkable, I don't think I'm going to quite empty it, you can talk about it for a long time, but it's as if they've never heard of straying values. Standards that roam the country can well be run by having many who have the only standing value for it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u90	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Áslaug Friðriksdóttir notes that it is willing to pay the currency in a way that calls for landing in Iceland. Although there is no particular amount of payment, it's still quite inaccessible and complicated to people. Icelanders and foreign tourists are the same as they are. It affects those of the Icelanders who are traveling a lot, but it is a very effective way to ensure that every tourist who comes here will provide a measure of involvement in our ability to build up even better tourism and maintain our natural resources. What I think is an interesting point in the counter-contestance of the senator is this with what Icelanders pay and what others pay. I remember having participated in discussions about coming charges and postponing financial and tax costs at the time when it is stated that the European Economic Areas must not discriminate against anyone according to state. But I think there's good reason, I just don't know it well, that the employment board reviews whether these people are tourists, and they're tourists, and they don't live here, and they don't mean people, no matter if they live abroad as tourists or tourists. I also feel that it is necessary to determine if it is such a sacred princeship that tourism cannot be financed by a special currency. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u91	A respectable president. I think it's true, of course, that a professional committee will deal with this and will no doubt suggest all kinds of ideas. As I watch the bill and the calculations in it, including what price will prevent people from coming to the country, we are way beyond that. If we're talking about 300 bucks. ... inannuendoor 400K. and 200 k. In return, we are talking 7,000 to 8,000 a year for those who may stay 10 times and travel several times on a plane. I think we'd be way beyond what this place was trying to do, i.e. to protect the Icelanders or those who live here with these charges. We have a cost of one position in monitoring - of course no one is going, and it has been shown many times during the discussion, to see a uniform worker running out and chasing people, they don't see them, but will be defined in certain areas. We don't know exactly where those sites are, and I'll agree that it has to be defined better. It will be done, and so has it been. But an hour's ass can be handled here and there for observation. It has great power, just as it does in large cities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u92	Mr. President. I would like to emphasize that it is the prince's key ingredient, that it is not paid to travel through its land. Second, I am deeply concerned that this is a legal practice that it is normal for private people to charge access to a country where there are tourist attractions that a number of people visit each year. There's something that we in the United States can't accept, and I don't think that the main majority of people in the country are comfortable with that arrangement. For monitoring, it is this way in public transport that all are being monitored. You can't get in except through certain machines and with the right kind of tickets, so there are some butts to get to those who are cheating through those systems. Even if it's just an hour's ass here, and it takes more than one place to do that, because we're talking about tourists who are on the second million, according to the strategy for population growth, plus all the Icelanders who are traveling around their country. There are no gates unless the access gates are not placed in places. I don't know how to do that. That's almost unfair. So this requires a complex check so that people will usually take their mark and buy a pass like this. Otherwise, the income stock will be far less poor than the expense estimate, since people will soon have to realize that they are not serious or unlikely to get into an ass.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u93	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Sigríður Ingibjörg the daughter of Ingadóttir for the speech. I listened to her and tried to find something positive out of her, saw nothing. That's not good enough. [[The point is, you got all this positive stuff before.]] I got everything positive before, yeah. The discussion has not been merely negative. Now it's time to go. A committee following a discussion. The minister said that she would, of course, give up the Allied. A committee warrant for changing the bill. That will be the subject of the council. I want to ask you why. A senator: thinks so. A senator really can wait longer than that? Can Icelandic nature wait longer for humans to take the necessary steps? I see a lot of damage in a lot of places. A lot of damage, mostly on moss and lava. Then there is the question of paths. There have been three ways, hostilities, charges, or exodus, and then the natural pass. Hv. A senator didn't go through any of these. I suppose that's what it is. Let's go through them, all three of them, work out the pros and cons. The faults of the bedside balance, I mentioned it in my speech, that there will be an increase in the amount of lodging, especially in cheap lodgings. The problem with the arrival rate is that there is an increase in flying prices, especially in cheap flights. Then there is the problem. A senator said that the Icelanders would pay to go through their country. I pointed out a way to speak as a boy. Clearly, a senator has not listened. It's coming up with a special personality discount that the Icelanders could automatically use to pay that price, but I also said I could hardly take it that way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u94	Mr. President. My job here is not to be ecstatic, which will please you. paritaprevir Blöndalur H. Farmal, and if I'm not positive enough for his taste, I'm just gonna say it, Mr. President, that I don't care what he thinks about it. For Icelandic nature, which cannot wait any longer, it is absolutely true, but the government's path does not excuse this setting of unprecedented taxes paid by Icelanders in order to travel through their country. And I encouraged the committee to assist ministers in finding effective ways. Now funds were placed in the construction of tourist facilities on budgets because it was an emergency. We will then have to unite after the employment committees that they will be made a second time and that the council and the government will be able to find a way. That's just how it's gonna have to be. You can't say, we're so late, we just have to introduce some bullshit system to get this money. There is another way that money can be obtained. That's for us to decide. I'm completely satisfied with the fact that the General takes the power they want to take and win a case, but it's natural awkward and neglecting that there's so little support here on the board that most of us are running to make the council responsible for the mess and mess that we're in. That's no excuse. People should see their own dignity in presenting bills that are usually perplexing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u95	Mr. President. There may well be a problem. A senator does not care what I think, but the point was that there was no upbuilding speech. Senator. There were no suggestions for solutions. It was all bad, bad, bad. Many ideas have now been developed in the discussion. I trust each other. A committee well designed to go through these ideas and solve them. If you think there's some myth in Iceland paying to go through the country and you want to save them that 500 bucks. In a year - five hundred dollars - you can do the way I pointed out, give a special personal discount that would pay the price, conditional. Well, that settles it. The important thing is to bring up a solution that makes income to pay for what is needed to protect nature, and I'm almost sure that a tourist comes to Iceland and is made to pay 1,500 bucks. does so with joy, a sense of joy. I can hardly think of men wanting to cheat this system, so the surveillance will just be more of a case, to check that you haven't forgotten it. I assume every bus and every hotel on the way to Reykjavík and every hotel will be called to the conclusion that if they're going to go to Gold Falls and Geys, they'll need a natural pass at 1500k. and here is the screen to book it, or the app to send the phone. I just don't see the problem with collecting and monitoring because most people will view it as a positive tax and most people are honest, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u96	Mr. President. Natural rights are a violation of the free movement of people throughout their land without paying for that particular price. Paybacks as suggested in the bill are certainly not high. Senator, 500 bucks. Every year, but it's a violation of a prince's finger. Then, too, that price can be raised, we now know. In an exhilarating suggestion, the senator has not listened gently enough to what I said, since I spoke in order to form attendances and was then on the same level as some members of the board. If tourists are willing to pay $1,500. for nature pass them, they should be ready to pay 11⁄2 you. K. innuendo charges. You can raise the value tax in your rooming service. The balance of the stay can be increased, and services may be collected if a service for which it is normal to charge can be built. So I made many suggestions. I have not been in charge of this problem, I have not been a traveling minister in another year, and I have wondered how I should tackle this problem in consultation with the article. I discussed that it is important that a professional employment committee assist a minister who seems unable to handle the task of finding ways that are efficient and reasonable and not violating a fundamental prince's free movement of people without cost.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u97	Mr. President. I have made my stand on this matter very clear in reply and in previous sermons. In a way, this discussion has finally arrived, but I want to say at the end that I feel that it has done many things. She's been slang on chapters, very hot at the beginning, but she's been perturbing. I feel there's a lot of ideas here, and I might say that there's a problem. A professional health committee, who, of course, gets this case, level ideas. I'd especially like to begin my speech with a compliment. The members of the board for taking with an extremely open mind and wide view of this bill. Men have not hesitated to say at that cost and vice. Hv. paritaprevir The Áslaug daughter of Friðriksdóttir, who sits here for the first time among us, has identified both positive and negative aspects of this bill, and some other members of the Independence Party have done so. However, most people, except for those who spoke on the side of the advance party, have found a great deal of protection from the bill. I believe this discussion has yielded three basic findings. First of all, I think that everyone agrees that we want to go along with that kind of fee to create a amount of income to support the development of tourism. There's no default. It might be similar to reason, considering the fact that tourism has now become the largest sector in the country and that, once it is established into the normal form and the tax environment that is common in the world over it, it is making a lot of money to say that it is not unusual to say that the state through that tax system is a product of the structure. But the discussion has led us to the conclusion that everyone believes that there is a right way to take a special price to live up to this. Second, the discussion, of course, has provided something that is completely unprecedented, there is no support for the bill. Industrial and commercial ministers. I don't recall the early 25 years I've been sitting in these sales that I've ever seen a bill that almost none of the local minister's classes describe an uncircumcised support. No one has. In this discussion, virtually no one, has been overlooked. paritaprevir Sæmundsson, Congressman of the Agency, described quite an unfounded support for the bill. I can't remember that there was a bill in which both members of the Parliament, members of the board, went out of their way in the media to report that they were not in favor of the bill. Of course, my memory is falling apart and may not be getting far back, but I can't remember better than I've heard. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, president of the professional committee, who is taking the case to heart, expresses profound doubts about this. The third major outcome, which is of utmost importance, is the highest concern. A minister has said that she is willing to listen to changes, and she specifically says that the committee should find solidarity. In other words, the case is referred to the committee, perhaps not to primary development, but the committee is to process the higher level of ideas available here. My stand has been pretty clear in this case. Maybe she's a threesome. First of all, it's the public court. I view him as one of the most sacred rights we have in the Icelandic republic. He's very old. It was part of the building of the Icelandic Commonwealth. He was the primordial that the Icelanders had in their time. The people had the right to go to free countries with their livestock and not just that. They were also allowed to use them as they needed while they were on the journey. They were even able to use their cattle in such journeys in the lands; they were able to catch fish for their food, and to read it; they had to be comfortable. This has been with us ever since. Here, in a strange way, people have been talking about some sort of insistence on the between the Constitution and refer them mainly to the existing constitutions, and to the public court. I totally dismiss it. I've been through it a little bit before, and maybe if I'm working time, I'll do it later. It is remarkable, though, that it is only the highest. Minister and minister. paritaprevir Blöndal H. Farms who have referred to that insistence between the public right and the Constitution. Then you should remember that the public rights has survived three constitutions, and the neighborhood has been a success. There's been no lawsuits. No one's gonna go down until it's the highest level. A minister has faced the issue in the situation that it is likely that if it goes the way it is going to go, there will be a great deal of controversy and lawsuits. I think so. Second, my opposition is that I'm very upset that this is the first time in the bill to legalize it and encourage the owners of the natural bulbs to charge access. I'm totally against it. That's a lot of news, and I have to say, that's where I think it's the best part. Ministers sail under false colours. V.E.G. The minister has made it very clear when we have been discussing the insistence of the Constitution and the public court, and the situation that arose by the fact that people around the country wanted to pay for access to countries they own, that the matter will not be settled here and that it would not be her job to settle it. But, Mr. President, she's settled it. Section 4. This bill is a key branch, so I use a word. paritaprevir Líneik sóttir Sævarsdóttir, she's promoting this approach. And play 4. and 1 1 1. ... he'd rather be on that patrol. But to eliminate any doubt about the ultimate. A minister is very aware that she is settling this matter in favor of landowners, so on this day I intend to read a text taken from her Ministry's website. It presents the facts in the form of questions and answers, and one of the questions is: Is the natural rights to avoid charge by private tourists at local tourist locations? The highest answer. The minister is unambiguous and decisive, and this is the case: No, individual landowners can still, in the power of their property rights, charge a deposit in their places. This is the first time the secretary of the Icelandic Republic would trust himself to say this. V.E.G. The secretary of the economy is not confident that when he was killed, he would say this because of what happened to him as a result of the payment of the Gestapo site. But the highest. Business and industrial minister will take decisive action, and after such expressions, she will not be able to come and shoot behind the shield that the matter is not settled. She's trying to settle it in my favor, which I think is the worst part of this bill and, in effect, the biggest news. Because I am a Christian, and I live by the Bible, I say, Your speech shall be yes, yes, and no, as it says. V.E.G. A minister should have made that plain, but she gave in and indicated otherwise. I didn't like that. Third, this was also the case with repeated answers from the highest level. A minister in a series of discussions, which prompted a disturbance due to a two - point payment planned for the third. She spoke in such a way that when this bill was released, the matter would be resolved and the considerable amount of kaos that was introduced would be harmonized. I refer them specifically to her reply in mid - December, possibly during the previous part of December, when she answered my leader, the chairman of the United States, why. paritaprevir The Árni Páll the son of Árnason. There, it was quite clear, and actually in other places. I don't think the Minister spoke entirely and clearly in this regard. Of the bill itself, I'm not going to multiply unless I've already discussed Article four. I have three comments to her. First, it is the vague definition of reading together the 1st and 2nd sentence. The 1st issue clearly states that all tourist attractions are automatically involved. Of course, people understand this so that they can't move from Iceland's ass outside of town and town without having to pay for that pass. The minister has driven from this view to say that, in fact, this will be only 10How12 places that will be defined, as stated in the 2nd case, as special places in the natural world of Iceland, which have a unique appeal to the history of culture or nature. How can it possibly be said that it has not been completed in 20 months? I make comments about this and I could make bigger decisions, but I'm not going to do it any more. I'm not gonna do anything with this surveillance. It's kind of weird, but I'm just celebrating it. I won't get caught if I do. I'm not going to pay this natural pass as mentioned, hope I don't hurt moral sense at the moment. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndalur with it. What's really important to me is that when I read chapters 4 together. and 1 1 1. I feel that if they have the opportunity, they are simply opening up and encouraging people who have countries to sell access to them. In 1 1. it says that 10% of this amount, considered to be 1 billion, should be spent outside the public areas. We know there are 100 million people. K. to build up that area is far too small. There's no motivation for that. So I say that the problem with this article is that it does not harmonize. It promotes kaos. What we'll see then is that the men who pay the pass, the giants, the tallest. Ministers Ragnheiður the Kings of the Elín's Árnadóttir, for 1500 C.E., and there's no great price, it's the prince's which matters, but worse so. It's already got 300 bucks, it wasn't 500 bucks. who were charged at Geys during that time? The schoolyards and Lairnns and their territory of the Smokelands were supposed to take me back a mile and a half. This is how it will trace itself, one place by another, and if we look a little ahead of time it will naturally develop in that way. In the end, we stand before a land shut down unless people pay for these places and there are many places outside the public areas. Then I'll come back to what I said earlier: This is the public court, and I don't want him to be taken away from me. I believe, however, that the debate here on the Public Court has been very helpful and that I am delighted to have a third chance in my career here to discuss it. It is beneficial for all to do so every 10 years. The Universal Court is not the most committed court in this matter. Nature's up there. We need to protect her. It is completely set, and it can be done differently than the fit that is being discussed. It is quite clear that nature can carry damage to the public rights under certain circumstances, and it is the opposite of being in some places, such as Hindu wells and vulnerable places like those of young men. paritaprevir Blöndal H. Burgor mentioned. This must be absolutely clear. There are various ways to go to make money. The honor of taxation is by itself. Of course, there must come a time when this article will not be given under any command today. She has become the most powerful industry in the country. The question is, can we wait for that? Hardly, as it is. Second, I do not want to turn away the possibility of direct payment for services rendered, such as hygiene, or services. I know this myself since I was a member of the Þingvall Committee and the Environment Minister of the Days of the Past that there is a great expense and a great need for it. And a parking lot, too. In short, I don't think that's a good way, and maybe I can do it in my second speech, because I'm gonna follow her, go over it a little bit. But I always move on to the same solution, which is the cost of stay. The argument against it is extremely weak here on the bill. The reasoning as reason. paritaprevir Áslaug Friðriksdóttir's daughter had a fine price paid earlier, perhaps the best objection. The opposite is that there have been ideas about the stairway change, its step distinction. [[The president calls.]] In my next talk, I can get into it. There are solutions to this. But I'm also at peace, and compromise is ready to discuss the reconstituted route.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u98	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the talk and the interest he shows in this matter has been here for the discussion. Just to sum up the comments as a reason. A senator has then made me feel that they are primarily concerned with the public rights, first of all, and then worried about private people. But I have to commend the senator that he brings his views on the way he should go and put them in this discussion. Therefore, after all, I am still optimistic that together we can find a solution to this matter. I just want to set things straight. A senator first spoke about the private people. I haven't taken a stand with one or no one. On the contrary, I have repeatedly said in my discussion that this state is a legal issue. What I'm saying and what we're suggesting on the bill is that, first of all, state and rural society are taking responsibility for their territory and saying, "There's no other way to charge access to these areas. Second, unlike the current legislation, we differ from other ways that have been discussed and that this subject has been left unsolved. The last government in this regard, i.e. It's not taking the initiative. It's being offered private partners to cooperate with us in this regard against their not driving themselves. Neither with an exodus, nor with a charge, nor with any other way of life. A senator mentioned, this is being handled. So I want to ask you why. Senator: Why was this legal matter left unsolved on the part of the last government, if it was so important to have it determined?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u99	Mr. President. I'm prepared to examine all the avenues discussed here except the natural pass. I've tried my part to back it up. They're in part emotional beds, I don't hide it. But the highest. A minister may assume that it sums it up perfectly on what my opposition is based. But that is not enough for the highest. Minister to come here and talk as if this case isn't undisputed. It's untraced on her part. I suppose the highest. Ministers know what it puts in their own name, it may well be that some others have written it, but in the answer I have read here, it describes the highest. Minister to the fact that it is her understanding that, as the situation exists today, a fee can be demanded for private access to natural bulbs. [[The president calls.]] I doubt it perfectly. V.E.G. The minister of finance and the leader of her life did not rely on him to say in his day that this was in harmony with law. V.E.G. A minister makes it perfectly clear. No, individual landowners can still, in the power of their property rights, charge the deposit in their places. I believe fourth. and then the little encouragement found in the bill of chapters 4 and 11. to get the private partners to cooperate directly, directly build the flag for those who want to go on the road to subsidies on nature bulbs. That's why I'm completely opposed. On the other hand, I can understand that view when people talk about that perhaps it has become industrialized when people come with more and more buses, etc. But I say, and it may be the essence of my speech that I want to be able to walk my country in peace with nature.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u100	A respectable president. Whatever. A senator may feel that he is now being charged. There's been a charge in Kerna, an attempt at Geysi and north. Today, the court case or the court case is not a matter of whether it is permitted or not. It's like a house-to-house business. They focus on whether the majority of landowners can make such an important decision, such as making a deposit for access to the land of unscrupulous minority owners. In the case of Israel, the State was the minority owner and made a comment. To the north, it was private on either side of the table. That's what's being settled now, the legal issue, can the landlord charge access to his country? They have not gone before the courts, that is, the things that are unsettled. That's why I say, as yet, I'm referring to a charge. And what? paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson waves the EEA decision and asks me, "Why don't I go and outlaw them?" As good as the EEA is, it's not a court of law and it's not about the EEA's decision but as much as I've seen a legal opinion that's going against it. I'd be the most beautiful man if it were settled, and I really hope we can do it, but it's the courts, not the ones standing here, as it is. A senator named Össur Skarphéðinsson promoted certain prohibitions. When he was in the government, no proposal was made by the senator, a law-changeer, or a Constitution that said: Landowners must not charge the deposit of natural bulbs. It's just the situation we're in today. The Universal Court is protected by nature protection laws, rights, and all that we've talked about, and we all love. But the rights of possession are also protected from the Constitution. [[The president calls.]] So we need to handle these two basic rights carefully, and I really hope, despite this, that we will be able to solve this subject because that is our project at the council right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u101	Mr. President. I don't like the attitude of the highest. Industrial and commercial ministers. She's a public representative, she's my deputy and she's supposed to stand by me and she's supposed to stand by the public. If the case is undisputed, it should not be as the executive of the European Commission in such a way that it is dangerously close to saying that it is with landowners in a case that will settle for her judgment. What's the most shocking of all is at the top. Minister goes beyond Óskar Magnússon, the head of primers who charge for the Kersa. He has recently said on the radio that he differs from what he calls the industry on the other hand and when some call out to bring their girls and want to see the Kers. And what's more, he does it in praxis, I don't have it from that personal experience, I say it than he does. But I feel that the Minister is calming down beyond him and moving further. I believe this is an extremely important, strong princely affair, and it is about the feelings of very many people and how they experience their own land, nature, and ties between them. Again, I reiterate that I understand well that changed circumstances may make the public court a little different and new. This changed situation is that there are a million tourists here, and perhaps there will be 2.3 million in some particular time, as one member of the council said today. Then we need to see how we deal with it, but we must not allow the normal Icelanders'right to do the same as they have always done without damaging it. I care about that, and I think it's the highest. Ministers do not have enough understanding of these feelings.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u102	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for his speech, and I'll be careful not to overdo his feelings. He talks a lot about public rights and constitution. I didn't necessarily speak of public rights and constitution, but of public rights and nature. When I first went up to Keili a few years ago - and it's a huge experience to go up to Keili, especially in good weather - I crossed the lava. It was a small, insignificant, and hard place to find, and you didn't see any damage. The last time I went up to Keili, there's nothing very long ago, there was a hot well in the lava. Is it my fault when I first walked around, or is it somebody else's fault? Or is it my fault I walked around last time? Where's the public court? Can I walk any way I want over the mossy lava? I don't think so. Nature suffers. When I'm so many times, when enough people, say 10,000 people, go the way I am, nature must be protected. That's where the public court runs against Iceland's nature -- so we agree on that, so the public court is not absolute. [[Like I was saying.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u103	No.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u104	Then we'll just agree wholeheartedly. I've pointed out, if people find it so terribly painful to pay $1,500. For princely reasons, to keep this free. By having a special character discount, which is intended for the natural pass. All the taxpayers of 18 years of age and older - including those who don't pay taxes - can refer to it and receive it, all who have a social security and who are taxable do not have to pay. Then it may be that it protects the feelings of someone who does not want a prince's cause.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u105	Mr. President. I know why. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndal doesn't believe it, but I did the same way that he did shortly ago, i.e. Last year. I'm not sure I'll do it again. I had the exact same experience. A senator, a burning wounds in some parts of the moss - yes, in some places, it's getting very excited and realize that they've gone past them to form new wounds, so I understand that completely. [[Up front.]] But in my speech earlier, I also said that nature goes beyond the public rights, and then the question is, How do we try to find that way? I gave a special example, an example that I had to deal with as environmental minister in my time, there were Haiden wells that are on the edge of a crisis. How, though, should we protect them? We do it neither with the ways I've been speaking for, nor with the natural pass, at all. There are other ways to go. Hv. A senator then mentioned that he had not been referring to the constitution. He's now with the highest. The only man who has spoken in this way, last before an hour, to set up the public rights in front of the constitution. What I'm saying is that the home of these two things has been very successful, and it's not until now with this bill I think it's the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs raises the right landowners beyond what I think is decent, beyond tradition, beyond the procedure and without a court order. However, I believe that this bill will lead to judicial cases, and that is because as I grow older, I want to be more gentle with people and more forgiving, which I would like to try to find another way. Hv. A senator could right here, i.e. A special character discount. It's worth looking at. On this point, there are two obvious faults immediately. Hv. A senator knows what I will name as the first. I care about poor people. There are people who can't pay any taxes and who can't take advantage of this. Second, we also know that when such special provisions and anomalies are made, they will disappear in the next...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u106	Mr. President. I mentioned, not those who pay taxes, but those who are taxable; poor people are tax dependent in Iceland, although they don't pay taxes and they get this person's discount paid to buy natural passes. All Icelanders could buy natural passes for a person's discount. But as to the ownership rights, it's true. Senator for the latter part of Article 3. Section 4. explains that the authority of the owners or caregivers to charge a fee for a designated tourist service is not limited. This could be out, this could be the point. Committee issued. It remains that men who have fenced their land -- those who want to spare the Sheljaland Falls, it is one of my greatest experiences to walk behind a waterfall, and then I couldn't go into that country, let alone walk around the waterfall. It's just the way it is. Also, with an apartment, I can't stay in an apartment anyway. A senator or a man on his property. He could absolutely forbid me to say, "You're not going in here. It's part of his holding rights and he's got this right for landowners. I'm not going to take sides on what the Supreme Court says when it strikes, the public rights and the legal rights of the Constitution. I would like to be judged by courts as expected to happen when men start paying charges from Kernan and in many other places. It will test whether certain natural resources, resources, or natural beauty can be seen without paying for it. But men can spare the Ker, men can turn SeIjaland Falls off, and Woodroofs, and so on. and then people can watch it from a distance through binoculars.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u107	Mr. President. When nature protection laws were accepted in 1972, there was a clear provision for the public rights. They were revised in 1999, at which point he was pressed. A senator named here, i.e. The public rights to separate land were restricted, based on the views and interests of forestry. But it's time to tell them what to do. A senator about it, so best I remember, making it clear that I don't have time to sit. The Environment and Transport Committee, that in controversial nature protection laws, which are now being delayed but should take effect on July 1st, this right is reinvested towards a new outlook, though I cannot quite remember. So there is a recognition of this attitude. I don't think it's good for us to set this up as public rights in the face of a constitution, as I think it would be. A senator does. The neighborhood has been doing well, and why shouldn't I, like all my rivers, be able to do my balanced way once every 10 years at Keili, if I look out for myself, or to some other mountain or walk around the top of the mountain, mountains and pine, in the right? Who's gonna get hurt? We know exactly what causes this increase, that is, the tourists. All right, then, let's try to aim our fees against them, but without cutting this right. That's what I think is the point. I feel that in this general discussion, I have been willing to do so. I think people have been positive, I think they've come up with a lot of ideas that you might be able to interlock, maybe pick one. But at least I've put my insides on the table, and then I can do it. A senator came and made fun of me for being emotional - but I am.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u108	A respectable president. Given the talks given here today, I'm amazed that the bill was submitted because it's not even hearing that there is general support in the board of directors. Here are strong comments to make on the subject that come from a few sources. Some are technical and concern the bill itself; others are princely, i.e. People are against the basic idea. Then you ask yourself, " How do I spend my time at the council? ' Would it not have been better, instead of bringing such cases in, to request that a transnational group of members of Congress be able to build these laws? Tourism has become an enormous business, and all of us are proud of it, happy with the way it has built up in recent years. This matter will not exist in some void. All of us understand that it takes money to build tourist facilities, and it also takes funds to achieve the goals set out for tourism, to spread more and more tourists around the country, to defend the country, and to make the most of the tourist attractions, and also to distribute tourists over the year. There has been a huge campaign to get tourists better into the year that has been successful, Iceland, throughout the year. The last terms, which were not the best results, were set up for overnight maintenance fees, but it was still a result of the council's work here and was a reduced version of the original proposal, which was a combination of hosthood and return fees. Since then, it may have been less done to try to find ways to spread tourists around the country. This bill does not change anything there; no amount of money is expected to improve access to new tourist areas, with the aim of taking part of the current or the greatest burden from all the media. It's not even part of the third team in the bill. If I recall correctly, one of the aims of the tourism fund was to try to give money to projects that better distributed the country to tourists, I hope I'm not wronging myself, but this is a place to narrow down the area of produce. A respectable president. It has been said a lot about the host's fee, and many spoke a lot of it down, that this is a weak currency, and there are many of them paying a small price. But it's just now that I don't think there's any place you're visiting abroad where it's not done in some way, i.e. set a special price for inn. It's not more unpleasant than a book like that, for example. A hotel in Prague, you especially pay more than two euros. There's a special price there. If you go to Edmonton, Canada, there are three different fees in the hotel account, and if you go to Geneva, one fee or two, if I remember correctly. So this is a well - known price. It has been described here as the value of the host's fee, but it has become known to me that I am very concerned with the fact that I am a tourist now, a currency known around the world. It's just that way. A natural pass as it is presented here is a novel phenomenon. They're asking the tourist that when he gets to Iceland, he should be on his special website to buy the pass especially, he should either print it out and have it in his or her own or whatever it is and have it in his cell phone so he can show himself to the inspector - because it seems to me to be expected of one employee on the bill - in case he ran into him while he was traveling. If he is so unfortunate that he meets the inspector on his journeys and does not have a pass, the inspector may decide that the tourist will get 15 points. K. A fine. If the tourist is on his way out of the country the next day, what will he do? paritaprevir In the Helgi of Hjörvar mentioned earlier, following him with this plot of government out of the country? What will be his objection? They're creating a complex level on top of a misunderstanding and they're doing it as unattractive as possible for tourists to come here and enjoy Iceland's nature and pay a little price because it's a small price and it's not that it's a proposal with some overtone. It's just not like that. This is a lot of size. A respectable president. Of all the ideas that have developed over the years, how to collect pay, centrally, in order to achieve the goal of building new places and the existing tourist attractions, this is the worst. I have to say right now, there's a lot of other things in this bill that's making double energy. We've been doing a pretty good review of the public court and I'm going to leave it on my own in a short while. On the other hand, I'm going to let myself talk about the unique articles of the bill and the very idea that is behind it because I feel that it is not right in one or more ways. It is so vague that it needs to be completely restored. I think when people start doing it and digging better in it they'll see that the scale of the trip will not be worth the journey and the inconvenience for the tourist himself. I'd like to start by mentioning the surveillance. This article discusses that when the tourist is traveling through the country, monitoring should be done with the strength to keep a comfortable walk, whether foreign or domestic travellers. However, what I find difficult to understand about surveillance is first of all that in Article 6. it is assumed that a travel agency should oversee the check-up and that the monitoring of a travel agency should be determined in a Minister's Regulation. Then the report reports that there is no additional employee in the travel agency to be hired, but the report also says with the permission of a president: ◯ The follow-up is under travel clinic, but there is nothing in the bill that forbids her to perform a service contract for monitoring. Then two questions arise: First, the one that had it. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon did well in his speech, i.e. how weak this would be, there wouldn't be any improvement in the bill for the management of a travel agency. Then you ask yourself, " What about the contractor? ' If this one employee as a travel agency is expected to be in charge, not of this alone, but of the project as it is said, what is the situation with regard to the administrative fine? The committee must carefully review their authority to do so. It's all very weak. And what's the song view on the bill that if something doesn't work out in it, it's just allowed? What's a song view in a paper with a bill from a Minister in Iceland's Government to say, "There's nothing in the bill that forbids you to do something, that can only be done. I don't think that's a normal message. Then let's get to something else that doesn't work out on the bill. According to the Ministry of Economic Affairs, the increase in the cost of travel is expected to be due to this year in 2015, i.e. In the first year of this drive, there will be 22.9 million. K. Let's go over what to do for this 20.9 million. K. A travel agent is to be hired at a travel agency. There's a possibility that the surveillance will take place within 22.9 billion. K. Frame. They're supposed to create a web page, they're supposed to create a system that runs this, they're supposed to market and introduce the natural pass for 22.9 million. K. I don't know how this whole thing works. That's supposed to be 40 million. K. This year, when the operation of the system will be fully started and I assume that a travel agency is going to create a publicity agency, in many languages it is expected to be possible. You're supposed to have a travel agency build a website, maintain it, and fire it. This bill doesn't make any sense There's no way within a range of 22.9 million. K. Increased cost of operating can be set in motion by a travel agency. Besides, it doesn't make up to within 40 million. K. This is what people will run when we are talking about possibly a million tourists traveling over the year, national and foreign populations, which enter the natural environment. If we get started on this project so that the surveillance won't be clear - the money will tell us, the only tourist at the travel agency will tell us - what are we going to do? There's no muscle in it. Why, then, are people to go over their heads and buy this natural pass? There's nothing going to work out on this. The other thing, I have to mention, and neither do I, that it's very vague where these places should be. In Comb 4. referred to a bill for which the Environment Minister will expect to measure, which is a bill for the legislation on the national structure of infrastructure for tourists. That's where you come to the empty cabin too. When and how will these tourist sites also be defined, and when and how can new locations be introduced into this system? If these are just ten to twelve places, why not be in the position if men can put it in advance, if the minister can tell us in advance that these are at most ten to twelve places? This is completely incomprehensible to me, and I agree with the criticism that happened earlier. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson. It's all too weak, first of all, that you choose the worst possible idea, and the motion to go into central currency to build up Iceland's nature and maintain your natural bulbs, and secondly, the export itself doesn't resist, there's no stone in the bill. A respectable president. I have to say, I was very disappointed in this. Likewise, I feel a little pain with the minister, as it is not easy to work in this environment as a minister when the travel service has not been able to agree on who should collect this fee, nor in the front of it could she agree on it. However, she has now called for the continuation of her stay, and it will be increased. Why not go that way? Because a minister had decided that the natural pass was the only true one? The natural pass is not. It will cost a lot more than this if he's ever going to be trustworthy. The extent to which this will be far more than any other subject will be, and it will be as unattractive as possible to the tourist himself. I'm asking senators to read through this and to put themselves in the footsteps of the tourist who comes from outside, who will have to buy a natural pass but then he will travel through Iceland's nature and will still continue to drive himself into all kinds of gates where private remunerations and then may be hunted out of the landstones with administrative fines on his back because he was so unfortunate to meet the inspector or contractors mentioned in a papermaking. A respectable president. I really hope that someone will find another way to reach the goals the bill is to achieve. [[The president calls.]] I've declared that I'm ready for that job, but up this way, I can't sign it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u109	A respectable president. It is indeed a pleasure to know how the trend has been in our tourism, how many foreign tourists have come to realize the nature of the land, the greatness of the natural world. No doubt there are many explanations for the way this has been done in recent years, the increase in numbers we have seen to be rooted in intensive market work, but I think no less of the one that has driven our shores, such as all of which are not a cause for rejoicing, such as volcanic eruptions that have brought great attention to the world, and all the media around it. As a result, filmmaking around here has increased dramatically, and measures to further that service have been made, and land production has become abundant. This has resulted in significant incomes that have been successful in difficult times for our national farms, much currency, and is now developing about one quarter of the government's currency. But this has its own black side, and it may come primarily in the face of increasing pressures on our vulnerable environment, stress on our country. We have witnessed what we are traveling through the country, and we have experienced the discussion that tourist attractions are becoming quite apparent. Service is not the kind of service that is offered to a people who are going to have a long - term high level of activity in the industry. They'll have to respond. Also, this great number of tourists has resulted in high pressures on the nation's response and, as we know it, our system, of course, is primarily built on volunteer forces throughout the country, which play an important role in ensuring the safety of tourists as well as our people living in this country. Of course, we need to give them more support than we have been able to do so so so that pressures simply do not become too much for those making it a great help. We need to respond, and this has been during the discussion for a long time. This matter has been under way for almost a year and a half, and it has created social talk and has been tried to get close to it so that some far greater peace could prevail. So today, the opposition that is evident in this matter is a source of great disappointment. It is, in particular, because in advance you might have expected that opposition could become the primary object of payment, but it is not. No matter where it is, whether there are stakeholders in the tourism service, whether it is in the politics here at a council or elsewhere in the community, all agree that it must be handled, and it is natural to do so in a special exchange for those who enjoy it in these cases. Then it's a matter of finding the means to make peace, the methodology, to collect the price. It is, in fact, very difficult to think of saying a case against the fact that it is not just because of stakeholders in the article where the opposition seems to be quite general, we feel the opposition to the government at the council, but there are also serious doubts about the matter of many who place the government class. I have previously declared that I had a specific advance in this process. I think it's very important that we come up an efficient system, I've been concerned that there's a level of complications in this process which will lead to too much going into itself, the size being too much. I don't like some particular surveillance industry around this. I believe we need to find a way that can give us the goals we have set. I think they exist, and they give us back, because there will be some demonstrations and simplicity in the case, efficiency, and that the money that collects most is going to be most useful and preferably all of the work we think should be done. Several routes have been mentioned in these topics, such as incursion. They have many advantages. At the time of the arrival, there is little or no management. It's a simple collected method, it's efficient, and it's definitely making its financial contribution directly to the required tasks. But there are also negative aspects, perhaps especially on the international level. It is obvious that if we were to go that way, because of the equation, we would have to pay the price to the domestic flight as well. If we were to take this route to some extent, we would have to perform counter measures to avoid weakening the competitiveness of the internal flight and thus increase the cost. This also has another negative side. We're trying to build Iceland up as a tourist country all year long. We've been successful in extending the tourist season and witnessing how many tourists come here during wintertime. It's all over here. It's safe to say. By Christmas and New Year's Eve, all hotels are more and less booked. It's a lot of whales for us and for the tourism and for the community. Of course, we need to strive to contribute with all our means that this application can continue, especially with more conferences being looked forward. There's been a lot of success. Harpa has opened up specific opportunities that apparently pay for her access to that market, motivational trips. If they were to pay for some sort of return, I can't see that we could take the risk of putting them on the road and thus reduce a competitive stand during our winter journeys. In other words, it would be in my opinion a limited part of the year when the greatest cow of tourists comes here. We'll reach out to the cruise ships, the rental airlines that come across the summer, we'll get the large stream of tourists that'll take the ferry to Sufjörður, etc. There's been a little talk about a bedside fee. There are benefits and defects. The benefits are that it is simple, the fabrication is simple, that of the price is definite experience, and that the funds collected surely yield to the project they are considering. Is it efficient? It is, however, a question of whether it can be said that it is efficient because, of course, all such expenditures can be an incentive to shrink back, and there is a real danger. It is evident, too, that this would be worse for those with smaller accommodations and inexpensives, those who are trying to build whole - souled in the country. This would not cover tents, but there are a considerable number of people who travel through the RVs and stay at the campsites. We saw what happens on the ferry, so this is not an unprovable way, leading to a degree of discrimination on the basis of human management. It's a competitive situation. As a matter of fact, I've thought about the host's fee, that it might be a wonder if some form of social tax should be allowed to stay. Then I'm talking about a very low tax tax system, a so-called ◯city tax, where closer to the community is a factor in the structure of tourism. I think it could be in many ways positive, it would create in my opinion a positive discussion and an attitude toward international tourism and would promote the support of rural society and give them greater opportunities to work together in the development of regional tourism. One of the advantages is still countless, and that's a parking ticket fee. We're used to almost wherever we go, whether it's at Keflavour Airport or in the capital area or across the country, Akureyri, we're paying for a meter where we park our car. They make parking lots and parking places, etc. with great cost, and for that, we pay, and we feel that there is nothing unusual about it. Is there anything abnormal about it if we come to the Field, or Geys, or because of the Ker, or anywhere where people have invested in certain infrastructures, parking lots, toilets, etc., that there's some sort of currency, a currency for which men get some kind of service? In more populous places, this may even offer a potential access control. We know that the Matrix does not have the vast number of people who arrive in short time on the Friday afternoon, nor does Geys and perhaps other tourist attractions. It may be inexpensive to set room in the morning or in the afternoon or in the evening. So this could lead to a particular access control that I think -- actually, it doesn't have to be maintained, if the increase continues, we have to record access controls. The problems on the terms of the posts are very few. It's a technology we know. I haven't really noticed the flaws. Of course, it is important that there is a measure of order, so we do not see this growth fully without a government, and we do not follow some kind of infrastructure that justifies that kind of payment. We've had a lot of analysis work done by the Ministry on the bill, and it's definitely going to use us on a professional committee to handle this situation right now. The task of the Committee will have to look for ways that can be more settled, and I have full faith in the fact that this is not a matter of controversy about the currency itself, which, of course, is fundamental in the matter, but of the methodology that we find to deal with.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u110	A respectable president. Now that the discussion has come to an end, I want to start by thanking her for it. It's been long and thorough. It was expected that there would be significant communication, with regard to this matter, with conflicting views. There are many ways. Most of them have been torn here in one way or another. All of them have advantages, all of them have flaws. That's why we're standing here in 2015 with a million tourists a year, and you might sometimes think that this would have surprised us because we're not ready for something. But that is the situation, and that is the subject, and that is the task we here must work together to solve. In this discussion, I have tried to point out that we all agree on our goals, and it is the right thing to say. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son that there is no room for reimbursement or not, we are discussing the different ways to reach our objective, and I insist that none of them are faultless. The scale is big, it's kind of from the fact that we take it off taxes, take it from the state funds, and pay from our joint funds. It can well be reasoned with the fact that there are many tourists here who have created a lot of currency income, a lot of money in a government fund, and we are to live up to it in this way. On the other scale, there may be a way to charge locally, that each overseer or landowner himself will handle his own posts, collect, and charge expenses. Then there's everything. It has been discussed with the members of the host's eight - year - old family, but they also have their faults, as well as those that have been discussed. Various services are mentioned, and I want to reiterate that even if the way nature pass would result, it does not prevent public members or others from having a worthwhile service in their places, whether it is recreation, restaurants, or anything else. That's not what they're talking about. That's what they're talking about. In this way, state and rural society take their places and say: There will be no other charge in these places, and the landlords will be given the motivation to bring in. The big thread in this discussion that I feel most members of Congress have wondered is the public rights and the arrival of the Icelanders to this subject, whether we Icelanders should be put under the same hat as the tourist when it comes to it. In this discussion, I have repeatedly said that I have a deep understanding of that point of view. This will be discussed in many parts of the council. The laws of nature have been named, and more cases have been involved. We need to make peace, and I think that's something we can do. Here are some ways. Hv. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndal has suggested that this be done by personal discount through the tax. I'm sure that's what you're looking at. Now it's time to go in to the committee. They have assumed that there would be a job interview, and I have been wondering, " Is it the place where the case belongs with regard to various viewpoints, to form them that the public court has been here for discussion, also because the bill has been held? ' Environment Minister, who is later on on the program for the national development programme for infrastructure development, will be referred to the Environment Committee. Could it not be that the committee was the right spot? I did not mention it in my first speech, but I must admit that in my mind the issue of whether the matter should go to a professional committee, as expected, or to an environmental committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm going to take the answers and let me think about it until the answers are over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u111	A respectable president. For the highest cause. A minister here goes on to explain what the committee should address in this case has been repeated in the discussion and viewed as a natural concern that this case might be done to a professional professional committee. There has been no other talk, so I have heard of it, so I have assumed it, as did other members of the committee, who, of course, have been discussing the matter among themselves, that this would be the case. Nor is it necessary to look far back on the Constitution of the council in order to see that these cases have been largely addressed to the professional committee or to its administration, the trade committee, under which the seminaries of this Ministry are heard. So I will suggest, more honorable President, that this matter should go to work. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u112	A respectable president. That's right. A senator, I had assumed that this case would take place on the job committee. As you can see, I'm standing here in final answer to 1. It's something I've been thinking about in my discussion, and I'm wondering. In fact, there is evidence that the matter can be made up of three committees. It may go to the job board, as we have anticipated because it is truly a industry, one of the most important jobs in Iceland. It could go to the fiscal and tax committee, where we're truly talking about remuneration, could be said in a certain way that this is a tax matter. It may also go to an environment and transport committee, because the bill's objective is to discuss the objective of the bill and it is to protect nature and provide markets to promote its protection and structure. So this matter is relatively reversed. I see people are putting themselves here on the rosary, and that's fine. This may be something we should discuss, and I would like to listen to the viewpoint of members of the Parliament before I suggest where the matter is going.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u113	Mr. President. I have to put my song into the cross from the very last words. Minister, but she gave up some vague ball about which committee to address. To me, that's no question. Of course, the case should go to the professional committee. What's one of the highest roads in the mountain? The Minister to Leave now? What's in the back? I noticed that the highest. A minister was quoting from 1 Corinthians 15: 58. The focus on protecting Iceland's nature. We all agree on that, everyone agrees to pay. If the Minister has this opinion, should not the Environment Minister deliver this bill? What, then, is the business minister of the industry messing with this case? It might have seemed different if environmental ministers had given it up. A respectable president. I had a lot of hopes after this discussion, but not this, no. I ask if there is enough of the suggested information and the case will be considered. During the last term of the travel - service budget, the case went up to the industrial committee and was won there, called the head of the employment committee. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir spoke for the case in January 2009, and the industrial committee finished in 2011. V.E.G. Former CF minister, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, transferred the IRS and referred it to the Economic and Business Committee. Why did he do that? So, Ministers don't? It seems to me a minister is offering an object that's not right. According to Congress, I am absolutely convinced that this matter should go to the professional committee, for a minister has referred travel during this ideal period to her. What Has Changed? Why do you want to take this mountain ride, a respectable president? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u114	A respectable president. Now let's just calm down. It's a real problem with the people I've been saying here that I haven't suggested what the committee is going to do. That's what I was saying earlier, that under the discussion - and that's probably what a debate in the Senate hall is going to reveal, what's the point. I have felt very strongly the viewpoint in the public court discussion. That's why I was thinking about it, and it's good to get them to think. It is true that both issues have been made clear. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son and w. paritaprevir Kristján L. Möller that this is a business of nature because it's about travel. That is how I had always assumed that this would be part of a business committee. But I put in this opinion earlier, and it's good to have a point of view. It's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u115	V.E.G. President. I have made two talks on this subject that I agree to pay a price to protect and improve tourist attractions and deal with an increased number of tourists. I've also talked about it as a professional committee, and it's never been corrected, for example. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. A minister who has listened to my talks said that it was not arranged for the case to come to the professional committee. I have also talked about it, and the main part of my talk earlier was to work on a professional committee, making as much peace with the article and here at the council as possible. I've talked about it, Mr. Honorable President, that we have no time, and we're going to work this fast and hard and get ready for spring. We're not waiting for this. Therefore, when the discussion is over, I do not understand why the minister of the last talk gives up the ball and raises questions about what the committee should do. That's what the top said. Ministers that she had personally felt that the matter was natural to be taken to a professional committee. What changes are being made during the last phase of the case, the last minute, causing a minister to come on a platform and give up two balls and mention this as a possibility? All right, I'll take the will for the job at the top. Minister and she'll listen to reason. A respectable president. I advise the minister to come second to me and answer my answer and make it quite clear that her proposal is to go to a professional committee as expected by Congress, as the tradition assumes and has shown us, to a professional committee and to her industrial committee, to discuss these matters. What was the main purpose of the success fund of tourist attraction? paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, then supreme. Industrial Minister, did you move in time? Yes, to ensure the safety of tourists and to increase safety and protection of nature. [[The president calls.]] Same as we're talking about today. [[The president calls.]] This has nowhere else to go, according to Congress, than the pro board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u116	A respectable president. That's exactly why. I've been listening to the discussion, and I've been listening to reasons, and that's why I've been wondering. Now, I've only added to the rosary, and I'm going to listen to the arguments presented in the case before I refer it to a committee. That's according to Congress, saying why. A senator - I'm sorry, he's right. Senator, before I make a suggestion to the committee. [[You're not the one to refer this to a committee.]] What I explained earlier was that in one way or another it could be reasoned according to the Convention where this matter should go. I agree that the employment committee is the direct committee. But now I'm going to let more views in.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u117	V.E.G. President. I come here to make notes and give up the ball like the highest. In his final speech, a minister speaks of a large number of senators having both speeches. She says that she will give up this matter in order to allow members of the council to come on the platform and discuss this idea. I think I have to use the word dishonest in my conduct. Minister. This case cannot have been discussed for two days, and many have discussed it as the job committee, and then it will occur at the last level. I reiterate what I said: "What are we senators to pay that have been prepared for our public talk at 1 Corinthians 15: 33? " ... awrong.?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u118	Let me speak for you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u119	Yeah, you do, I know.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u120	A respectable president. It's a magnificent and cuddly position where we've been here to discuss a bill on nature passes for a few days. It has shown that not only the representatives of both sides of the board are physically incompatible with the contents but now seems to be a problem. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson and the Warlord. Also, the minister of Ragnheiður Elín Árnadóttir doesn't agree, even though it is the same category, with which to shoot the matter. In fact, there is only one suggestion, to turn the matter into a matter. Business committee, but the highest. A minister has noted that there is another way, please. Environmental and Transport Committee. As a result, it has been reasoned that this is then related to the public rights under terms of nature protection law at the right time. Environmental and Transport Committee. Hv. A financial and business committee has also been listed here, but what I'm surprised to do is that we're here in doubt about the treatment, that the members of the Independence Party don't even agree on how to handle the situation. Not before, we've been discussing the treatment here, and I remember the frame plan as the highest. Environment Minister recommended, but still, they were quickly shot to the point. It was contrary to our understanding, which they then spoke to. [[The president calls.]] I think it's a very strange situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u121	A respectable president. I have made a silent note under this point to make a comment that we are discussing it during the final half of the discussion where to discuss the matter. I would have thought that it would have occurred at the outset so that they could discuss this under the very merits of all the information on the board, but this smells because they have something to try on the subject at the council and wonder where it's the most possible option. It simply means that this case is not popular, and it knows the highest. The Minister's doing pretty well. But I call them, because she clearly indicates what she has in these matters and formally suggest that the matter be addressed to the Environment Committee. I think that's a good reason, but there should have been a lot earlier and right at the beginning of this discussion, if that should have been so. [[The president calls.]] This is not a good witness to the arrangements that have been made on this issue by the highest degree. Minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u122	A respectable president. I have repeatedly raised an issue about the inadequacy of this matter, but let's be there now that we don't even have a question for which the minister would want to refer it, or that the generals usually agreed on it, kind of fill the meter, I have to say. As noted above, many members of Parliament have completed two talks when the minister opens up a new discussion about listening to a viewpoint on where to go. This gives us every reason to pause during the discussion and to advise them on what they want in this matter. The contents are floundered, the extramateure is in an image, and the difficulty progress is natural, so this day will be written in the history books.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u123	A respectable president. It is better than anything else in how badly the minister has come to this point that when she finds that she does not have support for the job committee, for the head of a professional committee, and for her platoon brother, she intends to refer to the final stage of her discussion to any other committee. It is unannounced to act in this way, but perhaps by others in this arrangement. They're laying down the bedmark and replacing it with another currency. The secretary of finance transferred it during the first term and passed through the Economic and Business Committee during that terms. Then perhaps it would have been right for the minister of finance to deliver the case, but the Minister of Industrial Affairs began to deliver it on behalf of the government, and here everyone has arranged for a professional committee to discuss it. Without taking sides on this, we must call for, as mentioned earlier, that there is a recession on the discussion and that it is not completed until it is due to the greater part of the government or the Independence Party whether the Independence Party considers the matter to be part of a professional committee or some other committee of the council. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u124	A respectable president. Yeah, I've managed to create here a warped position. I'll try to do my part to clear it up. It is not out of confidence in reason. A professional committee I tore up that view. It was simply because I listened to the viewpoints presented during the discussion. Now I'm going to make it my suggestion and hope that it will shorten this discussion, that we can finish it and continue with other matters, that the situation will be as expected by the professional authorities. I also propose to my proposal that the matter should be agreed on by the Environment and Transport Committee as well as to the Economic and Business Committee because this matter is totally relevant to all of these committees. Then I trust the Committee and the Committee to review the matter, taking all the viewpoints that have been presented here, especially as to the issues mentioned in the public court. What we have learned here is that this is an opportunity to make the following comments and work to resolve the situation so that we can be as good as possible with this treatment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u125	Madam President. There may be no need to comment on this rather if there is a reconciliation between the Supreme Court. Ministers and their executives, which have been quite present, but I was going to give them the view to protect them from being disbarred that this would go to the Environment and Transport Committee simply because there are issues to be resolved with this matter, and preferably ahead of that, such as the terms of the public rights of nature protection. They'll be there for the next few weeks. There will be a proposal for a national structure program for tourists for the protection of nature and cultural memory and other excellent reasons that the Environment and Transport Committee could work on the matter. I seriously doubt that there was a violation of Congress. I don't think it's too much of an exorbitant in those guys on the pro board, with all due respect for them but I'm not going to do this here any other suggestions than the Minister has.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u126	A respectable president. In view of the living nature of this matter in the council and in the Hall of Congress, I intend to make my suggestion after listening to the highest court. Ministers take this thought here and meditate in the chair to discuss the matter with the environment and transport committee. It's not a bad idea at the top. Minister. True, she brings her into the discussion a little late, but it's a real pleasure to have settled in the Independence Party on this matter after the embarrassing incident that took place here. However, there is substance evidence that this matter is being discussed on the Environment and Transport Committee, and it is good to determine the will of the Parliament on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u127	A respectable president. I can say with what. A senator who spoke before, that's a good reason to send this case to the court. The Environment and Transport Committee and especially what I said in my previous inputs, that this case is closely linked to the public rights for material treatment in relation to existing nature protection laws. Environment and Transport Committee. On the other hand, I call for what's happened. The prime committee will consider these matters only because this is not the first time we tore up the committee. I want to recall when a frame plan was sent to what? The employment committee, which surprised everyone here at the Senate Hall. I would also like to recall that in the General Assembly, the local language is a matter of particular importance. Environmental and transport committees, however, a targeted strategy was provided. A professional health committee. There seems to be no issue at all. The job committee in this room, whatever the explanation may be. It's a question of whether this is some kind of expansion policy. Work committee, but it's a big deal. A prime committee should consider. [[The president calls.]] Of course, we're not supposed to stand here and to swerve under president's meeting board where we should go.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u128	A respectable president. I'm glad that this matter has come true and that it will be referred to. Business committee. As in many other matters, the cooperation of more committees on such issues has to be done on many surfaces, and this has never been the case beyond the discussion and debates of the Parliament's Environment Committee and the current economic committee. I think that our whole objective is the same in this, to find a way that can be extended and that will enable us to develop even more efficient future tourism based on a strong foundation for infrastructure.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u129	A respectable president. I would like to propose this event to make it possible for the prime committee to take seriously the suggestion that was prepared to address the source of the case. For example, we know that the schedule is in an insane place within the council. There was talk of a community plan. It was taken from a mindless committee, and I suggest that a prime committee gather, sit over this, and explain where the lawsuits lie, so we don't have to stand at the end of a discussion of such a matter that is in many ways contrary. I have to explain this, and I have this particular box in mind because I'm worried that when the big project comes in here, you've created some kind of a way into a professional committee for the major environmental issues involved.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u130	Madam President. It was a rather strange moment in the history of the council, but it might be an understatement. As we all witnessed earlier, the Minister of Industrial Affairs is directing his case as well. Of course, the winnings often win, but this was not a very impressive retreat at the highest level. Secretary of the trade. To tell you the truth, I don't remember any of the highest ones. A minister here came to the General's symposium directly to describe a lack of confidence in the chairman of a committee that also comes from her own group. It was very clear to the whole point that it wasn't until napalm. paritaprevir This was Jón Gunnarsson's son, who had given an excellent and highly perfunctory talk, showing that he did not agree with the highest point. Minister, which this fly seemed to come into the mouth of the highest. Secretary of the trade. I never remember the ultimate. A minister came here to the General Assembly and wondered, was half happy about where to send such a case. It's kind of unprecedented. I was going to come here to give a whole different talk, but there may be a little bit of anticism after that. However, I would like to state that I believe that this case should go to the professional committee and that it is entirely different from, for example. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall and what? paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir. Of course you can. However, I believe that the matter is complicated, and it touched a number of basics that both the environment and transport committees should be referred to for review and to the F.I.P.A. I want them at the end of this discussion to say that I don't think we're going to be in the middle of any sense of being out of this case. One of the main results of this discussion was at the top. As one knows, a minister literally prayed to find a solution to this warped situation. It's not really the one that had this case, it came out over and over again in the highest court. Minister she wasn't moving it on her own. She said in her discussion three times that the government commissioned her to promote this matter, as if it did not care about the outcome. I think we should just take it at the word. I think it's quite clear in this discussion that people agree on the main prince and the main prince's point is that we're going to find a way to create income to survive the development of tourist attractions. You were also absolutely right at the highest. The Minister of Industrial Affairs, when she gathered the discussion earlier, said that the majority of those who had spoken and protested the bill had done so on the basis of public court. That's why I completely agree. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who handled the situation well, said: "Let's try to find some kind of way that combines these two things, i.e. that there will be no decline in the public rights, but it will be made to build up the tourist resort. And most important of all is this discourse. A senator moved here earlier, which I am absolutely hard to believe is the best thing to do there. The ideas he tore up here were similar to ideas. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon tore up on return charges. It was just for me, the suggestion that I had. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon moved here today to use them at a time when, like the wind, already. A senator put it, Iceland is sold out when the cow is spoken well. Chairman of the pro board. I also thought why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson comes with a whole new surface into the conversation we haven't heard made on the board of ideas that have been created here today, and that was what he called, by the permission of president, City Taxes or city tax, and the idea he made here, perhaps thinking aloud, how it could infiltrate the rural communities, and cause them to raise their tourism and make them aware of it, thought for me. And I didn't hear any better than he was talking very close to it as a dog. paritaprevir The Líneik Sævarsdóttir spoke here yesterday. In any case, the conclusion has come, and it may well be at the top. A minister may not go home as happy as she went to the discussion, but we will agree on where this matter is going, and I think we are agreeing on certain factors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u131	A respectable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, for he quoted words freely. The head of the professional road committee for the importance of bringing the matter into terms with the public court. It is true, and perhaps sad in this matter and the foundation it must rest on in the understanding of the council of the public court. It is now that the precise public rights are being discussed by the Environment and Transport Committee in consultation with the Environment and Resource Ministry, and at present the Ministry has come to the Commission to explain the status of several chapters of nature protection laws and including the Public Court. I want to ask you why. A senator whether he is not sharing in my understanding that an Environment and Transport Committee needs to have resolved in agreement with the Environment Ministry what the understanding of the Council is in the public court before it is possible to continue with the Industrial Minister's bill on nature passes. So I'd like to also say in this objection that I myself believe that with this exact argument it is most appropriate that the case of the Industrial Minister should be addressed to the environment and transport committee for discussion, for discussion on the job board and the Economic and Business Committee, thus supporting the proposed proposal. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u132	Madam President. I have sensitive ears, and I listened to them. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur and heard him say when he brought this idea, perhaps not in full agreement with his previous talk, that it was too late. So I still don't know if there's a suggestion. Of course, delegates can bring such ideas at any time, but I don't think it matters. Congress will settle it, that's fine if the senators want to vote for it. If the opinion I have is, I won't even go to bed sad. Then I'm going to make a very strong remark to the first sentence in the speech of the dog. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir. So she made the statement that the P.R. was under consideration at the moment. Environment and transport committee in consultation with the Environment Ministry. I'm completely against that kind of conversation. I've always disagreed that members of Congress are working together with the Ministry. They can take advice, get instructions, get information, but I'll draw a very clear line between the Lawgiver and the Commission in that regard. I've seen so many times when the ministry is trying to control these matters. I did not try it myself as a minister, as the members of the council know, and that's why I make comments to it and leave little thought of the laughing papers that come here from the side room. With regard to the material question, I draw attention to it. A senator assumes that, as I know the case, the protection laws of nature must be passed before the end of the council because, otherwise, they will remain valid on July 1 and may not be accepted by everyone. That was an agreement. They tried to win it. So I don't see that there will be a temporary crash, but I'm sure that these matters are being handled closely by the members of the Parliament and, especially, that this case is as long as possible and will be over in due time. [[The president calls.]] But I point out that the peace I feel is forming here is that the public court will not be restricted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u133	A respectable president. Thank you. The senator's answer. The bottom line is, of course, that there will be no cleaning of a bill at the highest level. Industrial and commercial ministers on natural passes before the council has led to its understanding of the public court. That's the way it is. It's got to be done in the right order. And then I want to feel it. A senator with my comments on consultation with the Environment Ministry says that I am basically in agreement with the senator. However, I would like to include the senator and the House of Congress to recall that it was now that the first work of a former environmental minister, Sigurður of Ingi Jóhannsson's son, was proposed to be removed from natural protection law by two billings. The work was reassigned to a good deal of agreement with the administrative sector after a considerable amount of work, and the result included the collective understanding of government opposition and the administrative body that the Environment Ministry was given a specific assignment from the Council Committee, i.e. attempting to find more balance with stakeholders and either backland for five specific factors. One of these factors is the public rights, and now the Environment Ministry has made the Senate aware of the situation. This is in accordance with what the council decided and what the Senate specifically explained in a thorough committee program, so this process is all in a dignified manner according to the state of the Parliament and the Council Committee and its terms.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u134	Madam President. Then I apologize for my mania here and now. A senator has made this clear. I'm only stressing that I believe that the Ministry and Ministers are not supposed to be making any calls on matters that have come to the council. Hv. A senator has well explained this and for her explanation and for her excellent speech under the council today I appoint her, from my town council, to see at least the day's representative.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u135	V.E.G. President. I'm not going to extend this discussion, but I'd like to express my joy that it has been done by the highest degree. Ministers that this matter applies to the professional committee, as most expected it to be. I want to assure the highest. Ministers and members of the United States are concerned that the committee will handle this matter firmly and safely. What stands out to me after this discussion, which has become a long story, is that there is a very rich will, to me, here at the council for a happy ending and is a good cohesion among members of Congress. Therefore, I trust that this will be the case when the issue is addressed at the moment. A professional health committee. I am very much satisfied with the efforts of both environment and transport and economic and business committees on the matter, so that which is the most open to agreement, we can successfully complete the case so that both can be achieved, the aims to collect, which is, in nature, both simple and efficient, and that we can contribute to this payment by paying to protect the Icelandic nature and build up the necessary resources in travel areas.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u136	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's speech. I'd like to make him feel that way about what I've already asked about here during the discussion, i.e. His position and his understanding of the importance of the understanding of the Council's understanding of the content and nature of the public court prior to the highest bill. Industrial and commercial secretary of natural passes will be responsible for the resolution here at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u137	V.E.G. President. I believe that it is certain that the public rights, which we are all concerned with, and holy in theirs, will be put on high with the work ahead of us and that we will not doubt that he has his place in all these hundreds of years. I can assure you what. A senator says that this is not to be taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u138	A respectable president. All I want to do is make up my question, which did not comment on whether the public rights would be done high above their head or not. The European Court of Environment and Transport is now being discussed in a review of nature protection laws. Therefore, there is no question about the payment of the Generals on the content and nature of the public court. The Universal Court in itself, it is prior to what it involves, but how it is precisely defined, it is fundamental to the matter of the matter that has been discussed here for three days. That's what I'm asking you. A senator about. Does he not share in my understanding that there is a need for understanding the understanding of the Generalis in the public court and its position before the hearing of the bill? Industrial and commercial secretary of natural passes will be resolved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u139	V.E.G. President. Like what? A senator says that this case is being discussed on the Environment and Transport Committee and that these matters should be able to be achieved so that they do not have to wait for each other. I think quite clearly, as I said before, that in this matter in particular, the public court will be guaranteed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u140	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize an investment agreement with Thorsil ehf. About a silica factory in Helgavík, Smokeytown, on a threshing floor. 628. In the beginning, I want to settle any doubt that I suggest after this discussion that the case will be referred to. Business committee. The bill on this subject suggests that industrial and commercial ministers on behalf of the Iceland government will be authorized to establish an investment agreement with Thorsil ehf. As a result of the construction and operation of a silica painting factory in Helga, Rhivian Town. The investment contract for this project was signed on May 30 last year and is presented as a bill package with the bill, with a view to achieving a law set for the bill. The investment agreement is in line with the government's policy to increase newinvestment in Iceland, under the emphasis on future economic impacts that contribute to a wide range of employment. Then the government has resolved to support the establishment of new exports in Iceland, which have a positive overall impact on society and economy. Thorsil ehf. You plan to build and run a silica language factory for production up to 54 of yours. tons of diatoms per year. The energy demand for production is about 87 megawatts per hour or about 730 gigawatts per year. The factory will have two furnaces, and each one will need about 40 megawatts an hour. In addition to the production of silica, approximately 26 of you are expected to produce one. ton of silica powder and over 5 of you. a ton of gorges a year, but these products are falling into production on the metal. It is planned that the plant's work will begin in April 2015, with a prior notice of the approval of the Generals. It is estimated that the first oven will be used in April 2017. It is estimated that the total investing of the company will be about $28 billion or equivalent to $225 million and will become its own money against $31% loans. It is estimated that about 350 workers are involved in the construction of the factory and 130 people are working on it at the start of a business, some 30 of which are in management and technical work. With the exception of the specific abnormalities presented in the investment agreements, it is assumed that the community will otherwise be in accordance with Icelandic law and government directives. The agreements presented in investment agreement include the following types of taxes and expenditures: 1st The company's income tax rate will be 15% instead of 20%. 2. In general, insurance will be 50% lower than the insurance bill. 3. The share of real estate taxes will be 50% lower than a legal limit plus stress as per law No. 4/1995. 4. Cartilage costs will be 30% lower than according to the Smokey Harbor registration. 5. Special requirements apply to the expiration of property. 6th The Society will avoid Icelandic export fees for the factory business. 7. There are a number of safety requirements regarding the recording of new taxes. 8. Involvements are made by transfer fees according to Article 6. The contract, as well as the enterprise is granted a delay in payment of a valuable tax of import. But under investment agreements, they will in no way exceed $75.4 million will be worth any other amount of money. The investment agreement is 13 years from the appointment of a secretary to confirm the investment agreement, but with the exception that the Court's terms last for 10 years from when it is due or taxable on the part of the company, but never longer than the 13 years of the investment agreement. Investment project Thorsil ehf. its expected social and economic impact is very positive. The decline in production has been one of the biggest in the South as a result of the bank crash, the unemployment rate is not more and the human population is not usually as well educated as going and going and happening in other parts of the country. This situation requires real action on job structure, and it is the government's opinion that the new investing project Thorsil ehf. examples of industrial development, which is very useful to the region and an important feature related to the solutions of the target areas. In that case, the benefits of the initiative are considerable for the national and national level. Furthermore, the experience of operating comparable to Iceland's plant has shown that it is the source of important innovations. The bill of the subject was prepared with Thorsil ehf., the Department of Economics and Economics, the International Office of Investigation, Smokeynestown, and the Smokey Sea. Mr. President. It is difficult to discuss matters relating to government grants without referring to the EFTA Monitoring Institute. The EEA Convention. Last summer, the EEA's Regulation (EU) applied to the general population use of the so-called GBER. In this Regulation it is stated that if there is any authority in the national law, the government, to meet the conditions, to provide business support which is considered to be compatible with the State's Commission on the European Economic Area and the exception of the notifications to the EFTA (EU). In cooperation with the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs, which has a role in compliatory and guidance to other federal authorities, the Ministry of Development and Development has considered it to be a state-of-the-state aid to Thorsil ehf. will be subject to the requirements of the Regulation. Therefore, in view of the above, the national help covered above will not be reported specifically by the ESA, but it may be possible that ESAs have been informed about the project. A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate that this is what I would like to say, I'd like to suggest that this bill be followed by this discussion referred to a 2nd. ... andwhat. Business committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u141	Mr. President. It's a joy to be taken to the top. Minister's taken back what he's got. A professional health committee in its soft-hearted manner does not suggest that the matter go anywhere else. I'm here to celebrate this case. I'm behind the fact that we're using investment agreements like this to try to get a foreign investment in Iceland. There is no doubt that this particular project that has long been planned will be welcome in Southnes, and hopefully it will be. I cut by the subjunctive route as high as I could. Minister used. She put it this way: Get the job done. I'd like to ask the highest minister if there's any tools involved. It's a pretty good project, isn't it? What could lead to our failure to do so? Because I care about Southnes, and I remember a lot of things as high as possible. Minister has said, I'd like to go by the way of another job. It also received an investment agreement, which I reduced at the time almost at the hairs of the ideal government I sat in, like the highest. President remembers. When I'm at the highest. The minister then took office, speaking in a way that was merely a layer of remains of the last government that led to the fact that Helvvik had not made any move. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister: What news of Helgarvík? And second, is she still convinced that it was the last government's remnant that did not start with Helga as my hopes were?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u142	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the answer and for the support I heard him bring on this fine affair, and the hope I had left behind. A senator to fulfill his assignment. The approach may have been just because of past experiences: Will this assignment be accomplished? There is no indication except that the project is in good shape. Based on the news that the company's presidents have brought to me, the case is on high ground and I hope that if the matter is delayed, we'll be able to resolve the bill rapidly and well at the council. I have no reason to believe that. For the Holy See, I am disappointed that we have not yet reached the conclusion. I believe that several interconnections back then caused the situation to stop and are still in force. It is, of course, the agreements that must be reached between the energy company and the company but also decisions made on the basis of the last government, I mention the common environmental assessment of the southwest, which was made at a very delicate point and led to some decisions being delayed and have not yet been taken. I criticized it then, and I've made sure that no such stop at our table that could delay the project.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u143	Mr. President. I have nothing but good wishes for the highest. Ministers to this project and all Southnes. I can assure her that, although I am completely unaffected by this council and only sit on the Foreign Affairs Committee, I will at least contribute to this bill and Congress as soon as possible. I don't see a problem with it if it's on the loose that it doesn't violate European rules and if GBER himself is pleased with it, it should. But, of course, we've burned ourselves to see that ESAs are very difficult to deal with, and not always fairish Icelanders, I think. Then I'd like to use this opportunity to say at the top. Minister to word is always expensive. V.E.G. After becoming a minister, a minister of Jehovah's Witnesses traveled to a position of government out of Helguvík. In particular, I recall that she had an interview in Viking News where she could be understood that her hands would be left out of the sleeves, and now Helgavik would rise, that was almost what she said, and that she had high expectations for the South. But nothing has happened. It may be at the top. Ministers want to blame it on making a decision about the common environmental assessment, but it knows as well as I do that is not the reason, unfortunately. I have my opinion on why it is, but I'm not going to go through it, and it's not for anybody's good. But I'm just gonna use this opportunity to say it at the highest. Ministers, to save themselves sometimes, especially if they know better.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u144	A respectable president. I have to say, it's coming from the hardest direction. I don't think I know anybody why. A senator who has as good a spring of something that does not fit in with words in his choice of words. But I agree with what. A senator that it is important to get things started in Helguvík. It is true that the studio has not started, and as I said it is disappointing to me. But we can be happy that, before long, we will see projects in the process begin and monitor the structure of another silical plant that is already under way. I would certainly never call it what. A senator with no influence here at the council, boy. A senator knows that it is a measure of humility on his part to say so, but it is good to know his support for this matter and, together, that we will use our influence to resolve the matter quickly and safely.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u145	V.E.G. President. The government has resolved to increase new investors, which contribute to a wide range of employment life in Iceland and a positive economic impact on rural development and national development. Work is the foundation of well - being, and in the government contract, it is said, among other things, by permission of a president: The government stresses providing conditions for economic growth, which will be driven by increasing export and improved production in the public and private sector. Thus, the bill now under discussion is fully in line with the government's policy. So I support the bill wholeheartedly and rejoice that it is finally submitted to the General Assembly. The one standing here for years had a place in the employment and rejection of Smokejanestown and is also a member of that community today. So I know very well about this case, the development of industry in the community and the community today. I am convinced that this contract and structure of silica in Hlavik will be a great lift for the town society and the Southnes all. That will have considerable material impact, i.e. the number of bone functions as well as the secondary functions, but this will have a more interesting effect, i.e. showing that there is now a period of building after a long period of waiting and dark times when hopelessness has sometimes taken over. The bill's report on the impact assessment shows that there will be a significant reduction in unemployment in the area. And that is what Southnes need, more jobs. At Thorsil ehf's implementation. some 350 workers are expected to be involved in the structure of the silica plant. In the run-in period, it is estimated that about 130 people are employed in manufacturing, including 30 staff with specialized education, such as management and technical education. Remembers less. Unemployment has been reduced in southernnes during the last loss, although it is still with the largest event in the country and is still proportioning to a substantially higher average in the national language. Based on protocols, unemployment during the period of employment is expected to decrease by 1 percent if compared to unchanged unemployment in the region. There was no specific analysis on how many indirect and secondary jobs will develop in connection with the investment project, but there is some evidence that the overall effect would be an increase of 1.5 secondary and indirect jobs for each new job, with the exception of the so-called recovery effect. I want to grab down here on the report, pp. 15th It presents interesting information relating to the impact on knowledge production and innovation. I'd like to grab a little bit of the text, with President's permission: It has shown that they are the sources of important innovations. The Indians have emphasized the need to take out a work previously performed within their walls at the time when public knowledge was not available in the community to cope with it. Then there is the witness given here and an example of Far Away. It also says: These trends can be seen in all the factories, but they are probably from Far Away. While 450 people are employed there, more than 300 are employed in a service so closely related to the plant that most of the work is carried out on the continent itself and the existing port. This is good news for us on Southnes. The main element of the bill turns toward the inquisitors of taxes and public fees intended for Thorsil ehf. The coincidences the company gets are serious. I must admit that at first I had some doubts about them incarcerating. This is because I think they're pretty generous, and they are, but after closer thought, I feel that these coincidences are in complete agreement with similar agreements, so I will sleep quietly. In addition, there was good consultation with the governor of the city of Rhines, and I'd like to grab back here at another spot in the report. It is discussed in each of the discussions and referred to the town council of Smokejanes, which arrived on January 15, 2014, and a direct quote is given. It says that Rhinestown was followed by ideas about the evolution of its project, which is now Thorsil ehf. and got a good presentation on it. The project is that our [Synjanestown's town council] considered very interesting, and our community was prepared to support it fully. The review also says that Rhinestown is "prepared to provide the members of the community with the appeals to the Company and authorized by the law of No. 99/2010-015. In a statement from May 30, 2014, the mayor of Smokeynestown on behalf of Smokejanestown confirmed that he has crossed the plans for the investment agreement and that these aspects of the contract are subject to the approval of Smoketown's town of the approved Council of Smokejanestown, which is an infringement in the form of a lower ratio of property tax and street tax for the Society. Smokeynestown agreed to provide a minister with permission to sign the investment agreement with the above accessions. And then he signed the highest. The contract's industrial and business secretary, followed by preparation for the development of a bill. I'm not going to go over all the details about what these things are because that's the way it was. Minister very well, but I would like to highlight that in the bill there is a special source in budgets, a special training form for training on the basis of the project, up to 2 million euro, or about 308 million. K. The reason the state intends to provide training is that there is a new industry in Iceland and there is limited knowledge of this field in the community. The bill specifically insists that the government will fully endeavor to obtain access to budgets for 2016 for this training aid. But what sizes are we talking about in terms of the claims of the characters? This is based on the current programme for Thorsil ehf. estimated that paying on taxes and paying taxes to the state that would be paid in favor of 550 billion. K. but that it was 913 billion. K. without them, compared to 13 years of business. After paying taxes and paying the government, there were some 362 billion people. K. For the country society and the Smokeman's crew, these payments that would be expedient would be estimated to be 639 million. K. which would be 1,047 million. K. ... withoutthemutations of the season. So after the administration of the local community and the Smokeyard, some 408 million people are sensitive. K. No further objections would be granted as per the contract. To that end, the public assistance to the company is being drawn to a total of nearly 770 million. K. which the club would get from state to state and town of Smokeynes. The investment agreements place a roof on an indiscretion of less than 770 million. K. But that is the sum of the sum at present, compared to 7.5% per year of growth. The calculation was based on state strength criteria and rules according to the EEA Convention. There is then a deadline for the value of the contract, but the right to the incarnation is maintained for ten years from the time it was due or due to be set up on the side of the club, but not for more than 13 years from the entry of the contract. At this point, you ask yourself, " Can the company possibly misuse these coincidences in any way? ' Not that I want to make the company's managers dishonest, but with the interests of the state and community, it is necessary to ask aggressive questions and up to the rudeness of the company. In this regard, it seems to me that the agreement has some detailed regulations related to the correct use of the element and its monitoring. Consider, for example, the 19th century C.E. Investment agreements to send the Department of Employment and Development annually a report on the progress of investment projects, the role of intentional development, the total amount of government aided in recent years, and the identification of other activities, if any. The Ministry may request that a legal accountant confirm this information. The article also contains some detailed regulations for requisite support under the contract. And if the investment project, as it is further defined in the investment agreements, is not realized, or if the operation of Thorsil will be significantly different from that of the contract within five years of the commitment of the contract, then the union should repay all the applications and public assistance that the company has been given on the basis of the contract. So it's perfectly clear. Finally, it is clearly stated in Article 12. The agreement that he and his interpretation should apply to the Icelandic law. There are no legal requirements, as has been the custom of other investment agreements previously conducted by the Icelandic government on a larger new investment project in this country. That's enough for me. I'm convinced. This is a tangible operation aimed at increasing the number of jobs in the Southnes. I have to admit that for my part, I am more comfortable with such actions than with the establishment of a working group on the procreation and community of Southnes. I'd like to finish my speech with a complete mind for the rest of the bill for the people of the South, especially for the rest of the country, where I believe that the business of silica in Helgavík will increase prosperity and thus prosperity in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u146	Mr. President. Outside eyes often see a person's true nature much better than he himself. V.E.G. A industrial minister called me here lowly. Humility is the greatest virtue: I thank her for that praise. Must add, however, that there is hope later, after a long journey here at the Allied Assembly, which she finally understands my true nature. I want to reiterate what I said earlier that my support for this project is unequivocal. I expect this to work out. Such projects are truly needed in Southnes, resulting in 140 jobs, 30 jobs for special workers. What pleases me most is that the government and the people gather together for the project. Smokeytown is now taking over a large community government that has to shoulder the difficult task of tearing the town out of financial hardship. The town government has done so with great vigilance, as noted in the news, but the situation is that everything that can create a permanent income is important. Hence, it also expresses great interest in the local community to fulfill this commission in a way that was described earlier. paritaprevir Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir. Total angry state and society, by all means, 730 million. K. That's why the town has more than half. It's not too much of a container, I think it's from the state. Investment agreements like that are well deserved. But the one sitting on a chair and conducting a council now behind me knows that I have had this opinion different from that of many others. I think it would be okay to go far beyond the EU rules and the EU agreements allow. I have felt that it is very difficult to argue that some kind of inconsistencies are involved when men make deals like this if they have a sunset rules within a reasonable period of time. True, I admit that I'm very afraid of this sunset song, which is about 13 years old because I'm superstitious, 13 isn't a good number. But I've had a lot of times, I don't say, face-to-face with the minister of finance in the governments I've ever sat down in. I have felt that there was nothing wrong with it and that it was difficult to argue that it would damage the competitiveness of others if they were walking considerably deeper than they were going there. Southnes have been known to find areas of great pain since the military base was then shut down. In a sense, she choked the growth rods you would expect to spring up in the wake of such a blood transfusion. Experience has shown that when large companies leave society, they are often oddly quick to recover, but this requires specific infrastructure and a fixed combination of jobs. That's what I'd like to say. Because of what we had here a small place of words about earlier, Helga, I just want to say that it's absolutely right at the highest. Secretary of the trade I can be a big one sometimes. But there would be good reason for us to say a few big words about the performance of the highest. A minister to Helgarvík, and compare it with her earlier words. Nobody went as fast as they could. Minister. And as I said before, they were not finished until about two months after she began her office. She went on -- I don't want to say fimbsulfam - but her words continue for quite a while. It is still exhaling that it is blaming the former government for that position. But we both know why this situation exists, and this is a reason to have big words, but I'm going to save them. I don't think it matters. I just want to use this to underscore this lesson, that there are many times when people are supposed to be careful before they give up the sacred purpose. In this matter of Helgarvík, I am not at the height. Ministers have managed to do the trouble of average choice, but I imagine that some others who are in poorer than I am, in spite of everything, would use this opportunity, I'm not going to do it. She said earlier that the matter was still in place, and I would like to ask her: " Is there any chance that in this year's immediate future, in order to limit it, to take steps back in Helsinki?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u147	A respectable president. Indeed, it is fatherly problems and tips that arise in the wake. A senator and I just have to take them here. I have to say to what, though. A senator that I can make a shame with my head high when it comes to a smaller Ministerhood ceremony in Helgarík, because, in my day, two investment agreements have been signed, this is the second. One of the projects has started with the Silica United Silicon, and I really hope this project will start, and that knows why. Senator. I may well have had a big word, but they had a reason, and that was certainly the key to their day. In terms of whether or not this project will take place, I refer to it as special representatives of the Northern Union regularly in the media, and in conversation with me that their determination to build aluminium structures in Helgavík is unchanged. We can watch the state on the inscriptions. There are conditions that will be more favorable. I sure hope, then, that in the end we're gonna get our hands on this case, because I think it's really important, not just for this area, but also for the Icelandic economy. In the meantime, as long as this situation exists, we have certainly not slacked off on projects that affect this area rather than any other territory in the country and, in addition to what I have mentioned, we have made a deal with Alga Life that has already begun and then the proposed Senate resolutions on the integrity structure in Helga, which is being made up in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u148	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to legalize registered vehicles on deck. 629, 421st. The bill, the total license of registered vehicles, is prepared by a group of professionals appointed by Industrial and Business Ministers in August 2013. The last legislature was given a bill with the same name, but it did not succeed. The bill presented here has been improved from the previous bill. Among other things, some proposals have been made from a report on simple work environments and regulations for tourism, which was produced in June of last year. In recent years, the number of tourists who attend Iceland has increased dramatically. At the same time, the number of people offering rent vehicles has increased significantly, while the number of vehicles is now increasing. Other registered vehicles without a driver, such as four wheels, motorbikes, and such devices have also become more common than before. The changes reported by the bill aim to strengthen the law code on driving organs, the simple rule but at the same time improve monitoring of the operation. This includes the bill a clearer set of rights and duties for both landlords and landlords, especially for the security of renters and road users in general. The main indicators of the bill are as follows: The bill includes all registered drivers, but regulations set out on the current CAT laws specifically specifying that it does not require permission to rent registered vehicles other than automobiles. Cars, motor vehicles, motorists, tractors, motorists, automobiles, or tractors, made up of over 200 pounds [75 kg] total weights, as well as trailers and trailers. The available licenses will be non-term, but according to current legislation, there are valid requirements for a period of five years. Similarly, surveillance agencies and her resources are strengthened. In the absence of law, it was necessary to improve the surveillance rights of the Agency and its resources. So the bill assumes that the Grouping Room can do field reports and ask permission authorities to provide information. It will also be permitted to cancel a work permit if the permit holder fails to comply with or violate the requirements of the law. Furthermore, the Agency will have the authority to bring a date on anyone who violates certain aspects of the bill and makes it at the bottom of his head to remedy his offenses, as well as the ability to impose unauthorized control of a driver's job. Third, there is an increased demand for data that must be submitted in order to obtain a permit and a considerable increase in the duties of the permit holders. In the case of the demand for the correct driver's license in a U.S. Association Amateur, the license holder should be registered to the owner of a vehicle to be rented out, and specifically stated that a vehicle to be rented has to have a legal central check and a valid guarantee according to traffic laws. There is a new note in the bill on the so - called private rent, which is a legal entity that specialises to include outlets on registered vehicles owned by individuals. Such organisations are required to apply according to the law for permission and to meet some of the requirements for conventional driving equipment. According to the bill, the law is already valid but implemented on May 1, 2015. Gild licenses will remain valid, but the current licence authorities are ordered to inform the CA that they intend to continue their activities in a new legal environment. At that time, the Agency will be allowed to call for additional permission data from authorized authority, as well as to apply legal requirements for monitoring and fines to the current permit holders. In short, the bill's objective is to make the driving environment clearer, as well as a significant stream of regulations. As noted above, a report by a staff on a simple travel policy group and tried to establish a system that ensures both a efficient and a simple licence procedure but also a strong, strong monitoring of the operation to ensure the safety of renters and the public. V.E.G. President. After this discussion, I suggest that the bill be referred to what. In view of the discussion that took place on the nature pass bill earlier, the employment committee discussed on this subject can be considered as an example to be used. The head of the network, where this bill falls not only to a work committee, which is less of a proposal, but to an environment and transport committee, where it is truly transport. So it may not be a problem to make a suggestion. paritaprevir Katrín's Jakobsdóttir, Jacob's, reviews the legal matters of the committees and sees how we can get as clear and as direct as possible on the right course here in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u149	A respectable president. I recommend here for the bill to set up a national structure program for tourists to protect nature and cultural memory. The bill means that legalization will be a comprehensive policy strategy for building infrastructure in Iceland's nature. The objective of the bill is to shape policies, harmonisation and priorities for such structure and maintenance in tourism, tourism, and tourism in Iceland. Such structure must always be guided by nature protection and sustainability, since nature is the resource on which tourism is based. The recent discussions of tourism and tourism have been extensive and have been called on to develop infrastructure policies. In recent years, the pressures of Iceland's natural environment and historical sites have grown tremendously rapidly. Studies have repeatedly shown that nature is what draws foreign tourists across the country and international tourists across the country. In fact, research has shown that the next time the natural world is, the culture and history of the country are most interested. No one has overlooked the growth of industry's tourism over the past few years and is now one of the nation's main occupations. At the same time, travel time has increased. It begins earlier and extends further into the autumn. At the same time, there has been a large increase in winter travel and the interest of the Icelanders in the outdoor has increased, while thousands of people are regularly engaging in natural outdoors, such as mountain walks, hikings, and bicycles. The largest tourist attractions in the country are also among its most precious elements, often as well as often a peaceful region with high protection values as well as important cultures attract tourists. It is vital, therefore, that governments counter with a clear policy on the use of tourism on the nature of the country and cultural events and the measures needed to be taken. The area of Iceland north of the Arctic Circle and the cool summers make our country's nature more fragile. Plants quickly end up being very sensitive to any disturbance, and as the interest season is short, the vegetation takes a long time to recover. In addition, soil is fragile and easily broken, including fire - working, but there are plenty of ash, lighter, and other fruity substances in the soil. Because of this, tourism and natural pressures are more likely to cause more damage here than in most countries. It is therefore important to engage in tourism activities where major greenhouse gases and cultures are found, while infrastructure in these regions has not been consistent with the growth of tourists, and therefore, due to increased intensification, these areas have been identified. The overall policy strategy for the protection and construction of the infrastructure at tourist sites is not to be met and this bill is intended to replace it. Such long-term schedule is important to keep perspective on projects to be carried out, defined needs, priorities, implementing projects, securing practicality and working to define new areas. It is noteworthy that in the autumn, OECD presented an extensive assessment of the state of the environment in the country. It discussed a great deal of pressures on the natural environment from tourism and how to deal with it, and more harmonizing the policy of tourism and environment. Is this the bill I recommend here very much the spirit that floats over the waters. The bill identifies the terms "ways of travel, " the places of travel, and the area where people travel, to be defined. A tourist route refers to a way that connects tourist locations. Tourists can be walking, riding, and bicycle routes. A tourist location is one of the attractions for tourists because of nature and history, and as a tourist area, it is defined as travellers for nature and history, which include more than one tourist location. For example, the country of France might be defined as one tourist area, the Landsavers, and Hrafnnunsk, certain tourist attractions within that area, and the Light Road was then defined as a travel route that connects these places. I'll take this as an example of random exposé. The bill assumes that the Environment Minister, in agreement with the Ministers of travel, ethnic and cultural barriers, will propose a proposal for a resolution of a national policy strategy to 12 years of age. This program provides a forward view of the construction of tourist infrastructure, and this policy is adopted in consultation with the minister mentioned above. A national programme will include protection measures, security measures, construction and maintenance infrastructures for tourists in the interest of nature protection and the protection of cultures in tourism, tourism, and tourism. Following the agreed 12-year policy programme, it is assumed in the bill that the end will be three-year projections. They plan to expand further on the 12-year schedule, set priorities for specific tasks, and define their responsibilities. Projections are thus extended within the framework of the 12 year schedule and presented in the form of a synopsis. The bill stipulates the order of a project administration in charge of the proposal for a 12 year and three-year project program. These include a large number of the appointed representatives of the public organisations who oversee tourist attractions, tourist attractions, and tourist routes, representatives of other public institutions, as well as representatives of the Union of the Icelandic countryside, the Association of Travellers, the National Association of Lands, Iceland's Travel Association, outlanders, university, and nature protection parties. In addition to legal consultations with government and local authorities, partners, and other stakeholders, the bill says that the project should be carried out by the government, the state, and the community. At the same time, the task management should have an open-label presentation meeting on the proposals. Thus, the bill reaches the infrastructure of tourism, and it is official support of independent property. Officially, areas, including nationalisations, are expected to automatically be involved in the programme, and rural areas are expected to make suggestions for areas established within their limits, are private property, and prefer to be part of the plan. As a result, the rural community is responsible for the structure of the country, so it must be normal for them to be a central member of a decision-making team in which areas to enter the plan. In this context, however, it must be noted that no areas of private property will fall under the schedule except for the owner's wishes. As such, I would like to mention that in the bill, treaties will be negotiated with private landowners who have agreed to put their territory under the plan, accept official support, and keep their countries open free traffic as detailed in the laws and regulations. Yet, landowners are always allowed to pay for services rendered. It is only to ensure that independent collections of fees are not implemented in areas where the State is involved in building structures for tourists to contribute to the use of public funds in the public service. In this connection, I feel that it is important to say, in terms of the payment of the state funds, that only state funds can be committed to the payment of donations. Therefore, negotiations with the landowners of one country cannot be made until the decision of the General Assembly for financing is made. Finally, it is decided that a minister should be submitted within six months of the agreed bill, in agreement with members who have representatives of the project and the ministers of travel, national and cultural barriers, presenting and publishing public planning for construction through tourist routes, tourist areas, and tourism to January 1, 2018. Clearly, the need for structure is enormous, and it is impossible to wait until the first projection is adopted. If we expect a three - year strategy to be established in 2017 by the Generals' approval, it is clear that funds do not go into the plan until we make budgets in that year or 2018. Thus, implementation on the basis of the programme may begin at first. I believe that in order to ensure the protection of sensitive natural and cultural memorys that are damaged by tourism waste, immediate action is necessary. A respectable president. I've traced the main ingredient of this bill and suggested that it be at 1st. Refer to cover two. ... andwhat. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u150	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. I have a few questions, first of all regarding what is presented in Article 5. The bill on the project management. Then I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers on the approach of the EEA, the Water-Europe Environment and the Þingalde Committee for priorities in line with the programme: What is their approach to parties in view of the EEA's management of over 100 peace-lit areas? And as noted in the case of the minister, this is part of important tourist attractions. Second, I'd like to ask the highest. Minister - I've been here to review the bill and comment on it, and then I've wondered about the survival of Iceland's Natural History Institute for Nature, where the directive is to talk about the construction, operation and maintenance of natural protection. Enrollment and extramation of nature protection, eco-efficiency and registration of these are on the table of the Natural Institute. I miss seeing the role of the Agency in both the implementation of the programme and the same as the implementation of it. Then I want to ask the highest. Minister on eight. The bill, which states that a land owner is permitted to charge a fee for a given service and asks how it harmonizes with the discussion that has been under way, including the discussion of natural rights and currencies there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u151	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir for the inquiry. If we look at Section 5. The bill will explain who will be searched, but I find it perfectly obvious, as mentioned above, to be discussed with nature - protection organizations and various groups and to be consulted. It's a little far-reached when you say about a nature protection organization, and I don't know if they'll agree that their agent is more involved in coming from Lake Bay or the Thieves. I thought it would be a very normal thing to do, to believe, to rely on such an organization, that they would agree on it. Regarding the peace-lit areas and the EEA, of course they will be worked very closely. It's a lot of work, and I'm referring to this preliminary principle I mentioned, that the first idea to implement in six months from the approval of the bill must be tried. That's a very short time, so we won't be able to do everything. The nature of the matter will be consulted by the Institute of Natural Science and all the knowledge available to these fine institutions, whether it is the EEA or the Institute of Nature, will be guided into the work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u152	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister, please respond. According to the law on Lakewater land, there is a government set up in a somewhat unusual way, i.e. with the presence of rural society, etc. and that government has already established a programme of protection that is a building program for the Lakesland parks. There, of course, is a set vision and setting priorities, etc. I ask about the position of the protection programme in terms of the priorities presented here and whether these priorities need to be changed by the law on the Lakesland park or in some particular, defined procedure in the management of the National Park. The same question I'd like to ask about a Third Reich park, i.e. The cooperation with the Parliamentary Committee, which has a very clear role and clear work under law. I don't see exactly what it's supposed to be like. It was shown in a case of the highest order. Minister to say that the right thing to do is to consult the natural plant of nature, which is the natural source of knowledge that a minister enjoys in his work. I miss the fact that there is no definition of the natural institution there. Then I'd also like to mention some of the nature firms that have been present at times. Then I asked the highest. Minister in my previous objection to landowner's license, in accordance with Article 8. and hold to the top. Minister to try to find out in his second answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u153	A respectable president. With regard to the Institute of Natural Science, it has no law according to any of this, but as I mentioned earlier, it seems normal for us to go to the fountain of wisdom that is present in that institution. A senator took care of, for example. Ecosystems etc. A code of protection that the Waterland National Park operates on as appropriate and will guide us in this work as well. In terms of a contract with landowners, I spoke quite clearly about it in the talk and there I refer to Article 8. I don't know what it is. A senator was mainly calling for that. I've said it officially, and I'm still saying that I think it's absolutely necessary, as has been discussed here in the last few days at the General Assembly, that we will be paid to build up our tourist destinations. I think it's perfectly obvious. This has done some of the shapes that should be involved. As indicated by the bill I've given here, we will not give landowners the strength to build up unless there is a free movement for the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u154	V.E.G. President. I just want to come up here to celebrate this forward bill with the ear that the goal of the bill is to shape policies, harmonisation and priorities for the construction and maintenance of tourism, tourism, and tourism in Iceland, and that in first place, natural protection and sustainability will always be guided. All of us know that by increasing the number of tourists and access to tourist locations in the country, they have shown themselves, and this is because of where we are on the globe. Our nature is fragile and suffers ill agents. We have not had a complete policy strategy for the protection and construction of the infrastructure of tourist attractions. So I want to come up here to celebrate this bill and I hope it will really benefit us.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u155	A respectable president. Now, basically, I want to welcome the effort shown in the bill but to express concern over some of the factors that have already been presented in my dealings with the highest standard. Minister here in answer, i.e. Several non-programming issues to end the bill. First, regarding the interaction of this programme with the Agency and the national parks, which have an unusual regime, i.e. On one hand, a lakeland nation park, which has a system of governance, such as what was expressed in my counterargument, based on the arrival of the rural communities whose country belongs to the park. The national park's management and protection programme takes into account the priorities of these communities which they then proposed for Minister and Ministers already confirmed, i.e. The vision in the construction of the park This board of directors has the value of regulations and Ministers approaching in no way in the bill, i.e. how the interaction is between this schedule and its position and the bill presented here. The same applies to the interaction with the Þingalva National Park; we actually sit both, me and the highest. Minister, I'd like you to speak to the Parliamentate Committee. The Parliamentary Committee has a clear position toward the Parliament's courts and the law on the very priority of projects. Then it is as if it was not in my counterargument that the Agency has in recent years - it began to remind me in 2010 - the ruling of the peace-enforced areas under the control of the Agency for the state of the areas. This has sometimes been called the classification of red art areas where the EEA's most threatened areas, due to its prowess or other threats, are classified into red category; those at risk but not as high as orange category; then yellow and finally green, the ones secure by the assessment and classification of the EEA. This red list system has then been used as a support tool to set up the EEA budget on its level to serve as best of protection for the sub- environmental areas. This is a sign of that - what I've been doing here - that each of these three institutions, the Þingvaval Park, the Lake Earth and the EEA has had their way in setting priorities, sorting out the importance of projects, etc. The bill lacks a clear definition of the interaction of these programs when and if they do become valid. I miss it in the answers to the highest. Minister to my answers, as well as in her speech, that there is a clear basis for what the minister's will and vision were in this matter. This will now be the case with the council, as is the case with other stewards, but this case, in my opinion, is not of utmost importance. V.E.G. In the past, a minister told me that the Institute of Natural Science has no right to this matter. It is natural that we are here making laws, so counsellers in themselves would be able to define the state of the Natural Institute for the Congress discussed here. I think it is important, and would like to hear the minister's response in the final speech here, that there is a precipitating of ecosystems and registration of the Institute of Nature as a fundamental document. Because if this case is to be in the interest of nature protection, it must be based on the scientific knowledge and the basis it provides, not primarily on the uses of tourism. This is very important, and especially in view of what was recorded in the history of the highest degree. Minister, the aim of this case should be sustainable, i.e. that the land is not taken more than that it is given as well or better to future generations. It would be good if we saw as well in this matter - it is something the committee can consider and it would be good to hear a minister's response to - that the committee defined in this bill of sustainableness or at least how they would be combined for the resource use that the tourism truly is. Because it is important for a resource agency to have a clear and ambitious desire to define these criteria for this new, powerful, and growing sector that, if not limited, tends to control the valuable resources of the land. All I want to do is step back to the financial expenses at the Ministry of Economics, where the Ministry of Economics calls attention to a weakness in the bill. It is important for us to look to that - and a minister simply discussed in his background that we needed to be reminded that the funds and legal rights were at the council, and all that would reveal how much fell to the council, etc. - that plans of this kind can be very low if they don't follow funding, if they don't have a very clear vision for real will. Real political desire is only reflected by financial contributions. It is easy to set out ambitious, strong, and clear policy if the money remains to be provided. So I want to pray to the highest. Minister to respond and ask what will or what force. A minister will put in order to provide financial contributions so that the political emphasis presented on the bill at the highest level. Ministers may be allowed something in front of any other work that is required by the State. That's what I think is a very important point. Finally, in my brief speech, I would like to ask the minister to sharpen what I asked back here, which are treaties with landowners. Eight. says, with permission of the president: Since they are in a national programme, public free traffic should be open as detailed in the law and in the regulations of the regulations. However, a land owner is permitted to pay for a given service. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on that, if she could come to the end of a discussion, how this goes with a bill. Industrial and commercial ministers on natural passes. Here it is very clear that these areas should be open to the public's free traffic as detailed in the rules and laws - they are likely to refer primarily to the public court's position in the protection laws. I missed it, and it actually came out - the highest level. Ministers were not here in the discussion of natural rights, although both ministers of travel and environment had been able to have participated in the debate - that nature passes, all the ideologies, rest on a certain understanding of the public rights. The Universal Court and all this discussion have not been resolved on the Environment and Transport Committee and the Committee's proposal to the Council on how to define this right. I'll see here at 8th. it is stated that areas which are funded from the state fund because they are in the national programme should be open to the public'free traffic. But this also gives them reason to ask: What about areas that are not funded in accordance with national plan or that are based on national planning? Does that mean that some other view of the Environment Minister is involved? They may be tempted to reason on the basis of wording 8 c. Then I asked about this expression, which states that a landowner is permitted to charge a given service: What service might that be? Have such discussions been resolved? A respectable president. I didn't intend to give a long talk in this discussion, but it's so here I believe that the matter is initiated with a good will, and this is basically an effort to coordinate the plans for many institutions and parties for the protection of nature and the sound use of public funds that are good. [[Up front.]] At the same time, I miss a detailed review of the interaction of this strategy with the current EEA legislation and a peace-declared region, through the Þingalva peoples and on Lake Earth. It is not readily available to think, in this discussion of all, whether or not we will establish a good - looking park that will save all these areas and where all these areas will share a common government and a common vision. It is so rough, as it is today, that three agencies under two recruitments care for peaceful territory and national parks in Iceland. I believe that comparable problems in the establishment of a peace-created region are difficult to find in other countries based on nature protection and tourism. In some part of the Environment Ministry, there are good assessments of how practical and practical it is to set up a national park. Some have wanted to go further and say that such an institution should also oversee national and national and national areas of the state. It might well be reasoned that such an arrangement would be better, more reasonable, and that it would improve the priorities and use of money. There is a different discussion than the one here brought up with this matter. But I think, because this is an attempt to cover a big, important matter, that people could hardly escape the discussion of the structure of this sector in some way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u156	Madam President. I would like to comment on the first issue. of the best case ever. A minister spoke earlier and says that it is very, very, in the spirit of what I believe is necessary to do when it comes to the projects that are faced in tourist areas around the country. It is very positive that there is a long-term planning here and plans to follow. It is quite in the spirit of a synonym that I made the last winter, and on the spring of the last year, I agreed on the planning of a tourist expedition, where the idea was to map the particular paths of footprints, horse tracks, bicycle trails, and interconnected to one continuous map base in a manner similar to the one seen in many European countries, such as Austria, who has a modeled travel route. This is a similar procedure in order to be looked for building at places where everyone agrees that it is necessary. However, the debate on natural rights has been said that everyone in itself agrees on the objective, i.e. to reach and get money in some way in order to contribute to the building up that is necessary. Not everyone would agree that some form of taxation is needed because the amount of money needed for building up is not insurmountable to the overall success of the State. In itself, it is only a political decision and decision to take on an independent taxation to care for the project expected to be drawn up. Of course, there is money in the government to do this, but men have chosen and have chosen, and it is a political decision, to offer a special taxation in the form of nature passes, which I think is the least way to handle what we see. But let's leave it in the middle. I'm not going to discuss this bill materially unless I want to figure out what to do. paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir Skavavarsdóttir came in about 8 gr. In view of the public court, all areas are open to free traffic; it should be quite clear that it is not being adjusted so that this article does not work out the opposite way, i.e. saying that there is some other value there. This leads to what is important. It is important to put things in a process and organization, and my party, the bright future, is very consistent with this kind of practice, that it is not being strengthened by text messages, etc., but in an open process that everyone knows about and decides how this should be done so by everyone as true. But this needs to be done in the right order. You need to have finished it by setting it down in the way the public right is defined so that no one has to question it. So it's true. paritaprevir The Svandís Svavarsdóttir came in earlier; the public rights must be defined before the case is resolved so that they have it completely. I emphasize that, at the same time, humans have to complete the laws of nature. In fact, in these areas I think there is an excellent partnership or a combined link between the Environment and Transport Committee and the Environment Ministry, which I think is very positive. It is not necessarily working together, but the cards are being shown, and that is just the best. Conversations and conversations always improve. An amazing number of cases can be solved if people talk to each other. But it is not enough for humans to complete the protection laws of nature to address these issues; they also need to know how effective they are when it comes to financing these projects. I warn that the only possible solution is to pay a lot of money to do this. It may well be possible to find funds that are not in a special tax system, I do not talk about when men plan to create new and completely self - employed systems to collect money when they have a variety of means to pay taxes, taxes, and so on. I think it's important to come out. I'd also like to say that it is very important in the context of this case that we are working on all the issues related to nature, nature protection and environment in a single combination, that all talk together in these matters, not only to create a very well - organized and developed plans in this matter, but then completely disregarding the laws around protection and usefulness, the so-called framework, and to embrace it completely as they please each time, that they suggest some quick treatment on the others and those options which are not mentioned in the law, and are not intended and never being planned when the law was set. So it is important that this be true and that people really do have a problem. That's what I'm gonna put here the point of this speech. I'm glad this case has come out. I've only been through it once, and it looks like it's quite a job, and I'm looking forward to reviewing it better on an environmental and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u157	A respectable president. I thank you for the fine discussion, even though not many people spoke up, and they were specific and effective tips and inquiries that came from here. Hv. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir expressed concern for several factors, including the interaction with national parks, which are different types, as well as the EEA. I just think it's good that not everyone has the exact phenotype that has so far assumed that when you brought such institutions or people together, there would be more fermentation than if it were one giant organization. I'm counting on it. I've visited the EEA and received a fine lecture, although it was not quite thorough and rather short, on the sort of classification the senator had in mind, but I'm quite aware. I'm asking men to examine the purpose of this bill, and it had to have been moved a long time ago if it should have been well. We're pretty caught up in the sack by considering which places we'd like to do better, how we want to build them up, what new places we can find to spread the strain on our fine country, etc. Now the bill is out, and I'm pretty proud and glad it's been my first story. There is, however, a new Icelandic building that we are trying to get together, not as an arrangement that comes from somewhere. That makes me happy. I'm not saying it's perfect, like other men's work and it can certainly do something better. This is what both members of the council called out here quietly spoke about. I'm the first person to want to talk and talk about things, but that doesn't just mean talking about things, it's also going to have to be done. It is the primary objective here, to map the terms of peace and the closeness of the situation, as well as the cultural benefits that may not have been so much. When I speak of cultural culture and cultural value, I think of the National Park that we're all sitting in, which we've all been in here, but is in a somewhat special way, and is made to a national park by culture as much as nature. May it be said that during the years, nature in the park grew more in the discussion, but it was originally created primarily in the light of our culture and culture in it, to be delivered. And it's also true that the Ministry I currently run is called the Environment and Resource Ministry. We have a lot of resources when we have the natural environment underneath, not just the nature of our country, but beyond that. I've said that before, I feel the responsibility, but now we're starting a tourist map. They asked about the cost of lunch. Then I'm going to quote your financial and economic reviews on the final page of the bill: ...the financial and economic services believe that it will be of great benefit to develop a budget on the budget of the budget for transport projects and that there will be a long-term plan for major projects, their desirable priorities, the need for financial and cost analysis. It says right here, although the capital has not been accurately mapped. But if a natural pass like that goes on at the General Assembly then natural funds will come in to build up these areas. About 8. and landowners say that unless service is done, no charge will be made. You can imagine performing a service if a landowner sets up a path, builds a toilet, carries a coffee shop, etc., he is naturally allowed and naturally allows to charge for it. I don't think it's unnatural. All of this, however, will be considered. However, during the discussion, I feel that we can get along on this subject. Speaking of this interaction, which has been a bit of a password in speeches here, I think this is the right time, it goes together, we're looking at nature protection laws. There's a lot of money in the public court, and we know it's here at the spring council and on the Environment and Transport Committee, which this bill also goes for after the 1st. And then, at the same time, we're talking about the currency, the natural pass, so I'm just a very exciting interaction if we can link all three of these together. Thanks for the discussion, and I'd like to say, "I'm glad to see how the committee's about the bill. "
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u158	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct climate change laws, No. 70/2012. These are changes to implement EU directives and directives adopted in the EEA Convention. In addition, technical adjustments in the calculation of emissions are proposed in Article 14. The law. First of all, this involves the induction of Directive 2009/31/EC of the earth's carbon dioxide storage. The bill suggests that carbon dioxide may be stored in aquifers in the form of a temporary ban. This is a temporary ban on the obligation of the Directive of Iceland to either ban or allow subjugation and set up a rule and monitoring system in accordance with the directive's regulations. The analyses revealed that they appear to refer to an entirely different setting and methodology, but are used here in this field of experimental projects called CarbFix or SulFix. The materials try to bind crystalline carbon dioxide in the basalt form, but the directive seems to allow storage in the gas or liquid form in sediments. The directive requires close monitoring for decades and prohibits the storage of carbon dioxide on earthquakes. A respectable president. Better time is needed to set the rules for carbon dioxide storage in Icelandic conditions. The European Union plans to review the directive's directive's requirements and will use Iceland to ensure that the method used in this country and is a global pioneer activity will be taken into account. A temporary ban does not affect the experimental projects on Hellishi but should ensure that we meet the requirements of the EEA Convention without attaching the laws of premature and probably unnecessaryly requiring a possible lower injection. The Icelandic government was in favor of the reduction of carbon dioxide and its binding into the basalt, making it a remarkable enterprise that can demonstrate the global benefit of carbon binding in the salt. The bill makes it clear that the prohibition should not influence tasks in the study, development or testing program for storing total carbon dioxide less than 100 kilotonity. Hence, the bill will not at this time influence the above projects on Hellishi, but it is also recommended in the bill that the prohibition against carbon dioxide depletion should be revised no later than in 2020. The Environment and Resource Ministry has appointed a committee to perform a program for long-term regular work. Icelandic circumstances will be taken into account when it comes to that work. It should be noted that the EFTA Office of Monitoring sends the European Commission a short opinion about a year ago because the implementation of a directive was not yet completed here. So it is urgent to complete this matter as soon as possible. Second, this involves the implementation of Directive 2009/33/EC to promote the use of clean and energy efficient vehicles. The bill says that public companies should shop in passenger and freight vehicles take into account the biotime costs of a vehicle in terms of its energy consumption and environmental impact. The shopping is based on the provision of the set budgets set each year for the European Economic Area. The calculation of the biohazard cost of a car may require greater cost than regular automobiles, even at higher prices. The agreed bill will help the state and largest rural areas to buy more savings and environmental vehicles. Third, the implementation of EU Regulation No. 421/2014, adopted by the Council last spring, was to be introduced by preliminary regulations on climate laws. The provision of the preliminary bill is aimed at ensuring that EU Regulation is fully implemented. The regulations stipulate that until 2016 the law's legislation on emissions emissions systems will be limited to flying in the European Economic Area. In short, the implementation of the EU emissions system is temporarily simplified here on land in terms of flying. Fourth and final, the bill suggests a technical change in the reference period of the amount of emissions per Article 14. The law. The bill suggests that the reference period will be extended for one month from August 1 to July 31 of the next year. This change is proposed so that any change in the amount of money can be applied each year. This change does not affect the long-term amount of money or other factors. A respectable president. It should be noted that during the preparation of the bill, it was consulted with the ECU of Reykjavík, who is in charge of the CarbFix and SulFix test project on Hellishi. It was also made available to State and the EEA, as well as to the stakeholders who were invited to give a review of the bill. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that it be referred to. Environmental and transport committees, after the end of the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u159	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to correct a law of law No. 36/2011, water management. The bill is submitted for enforcing 9g. The European Union's framework for protecting water, called the water directive. Otherwise, the directive was introduced here by the legislation on water management that went into effect in 2011. Just like the directive's directive to protect water and its ecosystems, the law's purpose is to prevent further water loss and improve the state of aquatic ecosystems, wetlands and ecosystems that depend on water to aid the overall protection of water. In the 9th. The directive states that Member States should ensure that from the various areas of water use, contributions are made to water services, including environmental and resource-related costs. This article was not introduced by water management laws. First, the bill assumes the definition of water services, and second, it is expected that currency will be due to the costs of the water service mentioned above. According to the bill, the definition of water services includes all household services, institutions and employment services involving water intake, provision, storage, cleaning or distribution of surface water or groundwater, as well as sewage collection and treatment. In the bill, water services are beginning to be interpreted as the services of heat plants, water departments, reserves, and energy producers. The bill assumes that in order to cover the costs of water services, annual costs will be submitted, reflecting the use and pressures of water resources. Remuneration is expected to be paid to the hosts of the water service, which again can collect the cost of final users. The figures of the budget estimated that the above users will pay for water use should be taken into account, while the aims of payment are to fund the EEA's costs in implementing the legislation on water management. Since the 2011 work of water management, the EEA's budget for the law has been financed by financial funding. Water uses have dropped largely this year, and remuneration was expected to take place sooner than that. It has been possible to work on the implementation of the law since a program made, but Iceland is obliged to have completed certain steps, such as the water directive, in order to have comparable data with other Member States in the EEA and to show quality of water. The government is expected to be part of the cost of carrying out the law. It is estimated that the operating of the core water system will pay off from the state's budget, and the cost will be just 35 billion. K. every year. However, in 2015, a higher budget from a government fund is expected, since payoffs according to the bill will not begin until 2016 when it is estimated to pay a total of 15 million. K. every year. It is assumed that users will pay a total of 40 million dollars. K. In 2015, over 55 million. K. In 2016 and 2017. It is aimed to reevaluate the cost of user exposure when it is estimated that the first water program is due in 2017. Iceland is very rich with freshwater water and water levels are generally very good. It is of great importance for business, image, and environmental quality of the country that water in this country is good and that it can clearly be demonstrated. Since water management laws became valid, an analysis of the situation has been made and the work and methodology, which are the same in the European Economic Areas. Work on a water program will likely show that water quality is generally very high and that it and the figures that offer a clear basis for this and that it compares with other countries. It will also help you to see where you face problems and what you are dealing with. This work contributes to the sustainable use of water and the long-term protection of water resources. In order to improve our knowledge of the water resources and that Iceland can live up to its commitments under the EEA Convention, it has to be ensured by the legislation on water management. The bill is intended to do so by reimbursement, thus strengthening financial foundations for the act of the law. I've traced the bill's main subject. I suggest that the bill be referred to what. Environmental and transport committees, after the end of the 1st.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u160	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Secretary of the story. My main concern is what is stated in the chapter on consultation. I know the matter quite well and was the minister of the jury when the Water Command Act was legalized in Iceland, but the object of the funding was not brought to justice at that time. Here's the top line. A minister sees in the chapter of the bill the way it was. The following people; the activities of industry, Union, the Union of Icelandic rural society, and the industrial organisations are primarily involved, because here we are talking about, i.e. new remuneration for water use, new employment payment. I think it must be the highest power. A minister of some concerns presented here, and he is well tore up in the chapter on consultation, that all these parties oppose the contribution of the case. Everybody lays down against the bill's contribution. Contorsis says that there was never been a talk of payback. Civilians say that there is a complex network of low incomes to be expected and that this is a social project, etc. Who shall pay from the treasure of the kingdom. It says that the Ministry's findings were that it was right to go on the way the bill is called but that there is nothing here to compare with the individual views of economists. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Does it seem sufficient by the economists who have expressed the greatest concern how little is involved in these views?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u161	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry, and he believes the next person will know more about this than the one mentioned here. It is true that I have considered this matter, and it has caused me some concern, as the senator mentioned. The matter has been reviewed in agreement with the parties, trying to simplify it, and the State is now taking over 1/3 of the cost. We believe that it is important to protect our water purity and to imagine our food production as well as the commercial environment in the whole, that is important to our quality, and that we have consistent rules, such as others have around us. This is where we're put together the way it's done at the EEA, so I don't think we're gonna be able to resist this. It has been the best way of finding and softening from what it was originally, especially by the State's taking part in the cost. First, it was spoken of as being paid, which, of course, would have cost much more. It is said that it would have cost some 2◯3 billion to set up water gauges. However, there is a easier way to find a conversation with all the members of the council that the senator mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u162	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister of staff answers. Of course, I share with her the hope that it will be sufficient for the great stakeholders who will eventually submit their comments to the management of the committee. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers in regard to the concern of some of the stakeholders presented here, fear that the payment of the collection will not be complete to the projects below, which are now a measure of interest to stakeholders. Some believe that the price will not be guaranteed for the protection of water. They believe that this is a plan to start with, but later it will be a real tax system that will be used for other projects of the state's budget. Then I'd like to ask: How much of the community's cost of these expenses simply meets with increases in their records that will affect all users directly? If so, there are natural indirect tax increases in the public. Then I'd also like to ask at the end: Is this way of operating comparable to what is normally happening in the European Economic Area?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u163	A respectable president. We try, truly we try, to make sure that the funds we have gathered to this cause remain intact. We want to create that image for the land I used to be able to do. We are here to validate a directive issued in 2011, all but 9. But it can be said that we are now setting up the requirements, where Member States should make sure that those using the water services pay for it. We don't fill up the law today, and there's a lot of work to be done, as with water protection committees, and some reports and reports have to be covered. It is also true. A senator could do so, but the exact mechanism of the payoffs has not been implemented to the rural and energy institutions, so they have to come up with ideas of how they will implement it. So perhaps it can become public. It should still apply to a business company, not to the public.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u164	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct the management of fires and to protect against vegetation. The bill was worked at the Environment and Resource Ministry in cooperation with the Human Rights Agency and Iceland's Basis and in consultation with other economics. The bill was presented for presentation at the 143th legislature, and it is now presented with several changes in wording as well as the added regulations for the burning. The subject of the bill is the joint attitude of the Ministry of Directors and other economics needed to make changes to existing law, No. 61/1992, with a view to reducing tendon burns and treatment of the flames on the open field. So the purpose of the bill is to set further rules on burning and handling fires on the open field. If the bill is legal, it is expected to fail from the current burning laws and the treatment of fire on the open field. The primary objective of the bill is to ensure the safety and health of people, prevent property damage and reduce contamination and damage to the environment. The legislation is intended to be preventive and generally deal with precautions due to the risk of plant fires. The terms of current legislation are used, but the provision of access to the burn site and the treatment of wildfire is suggested to be stricter and more specific. The bill discusses the management of the field fire and the need to be very careful about its treatment. Special attention is given to the application of applications only on the legal basis where agriculture is practiced and only to a logical purpose for agriculture or livestock living. It is suggested that you do not burn the tendons because of a public threat or damage to the environment, bird life, moss of lyng or tree crops, forests, or manpowers. The bill suggests that only farmers or landowners can get a permit for a businessman after 1st April and before 1st May each year to meet the details of the Regulation. However, it is expected that if specific weather conditions warrant, the county can agree with the Ministry for the extended period for a total of one month. It is suggested that outside of this period, the burning of tendons will be prohibited in all parts of the world, which puts down a tighter timing than in existing laws. The bill suggests that a businessman's permission is required for the fire and that the fireman's license and license are approved by a fireman's fireman, i.e. where you burn more than one cubic meter of material. Based on years of activities requiring the permission of the police officer. Among the things that would agree with this law are those of the year; yet, there is strong reason to be strong and comparable in view of the dangers they may pose. It is suggested in the bill that rural governments will be permitted to set down areas of burn prevention programmes where burn prevention is prohibited because of the potential dangers. It is also assumed that firefighters will be allowed to ask for reimbursement at the expense of a call in case of a criminal act. The bill also includes terms for reimbursement, improvement responsibilities, and penalties. If the bill that the law assumes first that the Agency will monitor the activities and regulations set up in accordance with them. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u165	Madam President. I hereby make a resolution which includes the administration of a free trade contract to Japan based on a statement made by the Japanese government to increase the share of the free trade in foreign trades. I also made this suggestion during the last assembly, but she could not be discussed then. In itself, there is little to say. There are special materials to contribute now. Next year, I think it may be said that the 60th anniversary of the United States of Iceland and Japan will be a good time for such a proposal to be accepted. There's quite a deal between Iceland and Japan. We're moving out from Iceland something equivalent to 12 billion dollars. In turn, Japan is moving to Iceland's value or goods, at the cost of 8 billion each year. This is quite a business, and for us, it is something of great importance. Of course, the Jap has moved here as a share of their exports of extremely small, so it may be said that there is nothing special about which such a contract will be made on their part. However, we do not. The situation is that of the 12 billion of our exports, there are 8 billion of the products of the fishing road. This is an important market for such species as hairy, vegan, gray - eyed salmon, and also in Japan, it has developed markets for new products, which I specially name. Japan, for example, transports largely a variety of electrical devices, including cars and parts of cars. What's remarkable is the fact that 75% of our export is fish and all fish products carry toll, 5% toll. There is a considerable toll in the international trade, and it is important to achieve a stronger market and to take on more weight from these products to eliminate that toll. On the other hand, when you look at what has been transferred from Japan to Iceland, you see that almost everything you do is free of toll. So there is a very significant difference between Iceland and Japan. This makes it impossible for the Japanese to get themselves out of a vacation store in Iceland. That, however, is of vital importance to us. I told him earlier that it may be a special opportunity now to search for the pioneers with a sense of urgency about a vacation shop in Japan. Not only is this so because it would be worthy to celebrate the milestones in the political relationship between the two countries, as I had noted earlier in the following 60 years, the anniversary of the political union of the two states. There is another factor that also makes it possible for the Japanese government to open up Japan to a greater extent than before. For one thing, they have searched for free trade agreements with various countries, and they have literally declared that they stress to make such agreements with strong resources. It says that Iceland has a very high priority for both of us because of our renewable energy resources but also also because of the fish we produce. I therefore feel that it was important for us to take advantage of this opportunity and to use the milestone that will be next year in our political history to achieve these talks. I made this suggestion last year, too, because it was then that the Japanese changed their foreign policy as far as business matters are concerned. I have to say exactly as it is for me to feel that I'm a fine replacement, my highest. The minister of the state of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson has not put enough force into this. When this arrived in the last summer of the Japanese Deputy Minister Makino, it was made clear that he had not had much discussions with the guest he had attended earlier that day, i.e. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Secretary of state, on this subject. But to make all the arrangements, make clear the point to the highest level. For example, while visiting Japan as well as attending a Japanese minister in the last summer, the minister of the sea and agricultural field has made this point. I'm fresh in mind that when the media told about a meeting at the top. Ministers of State and Deputy Minister Makino were such a headline: a trade in question. That's not enough. This takes a lot more weight. The reason we have to take care of this matter with considerable urgency may be the smallness of Iceland and the fact that there is a significant difference between trades between countries that is evident in the fact that the ball, or 75%, of our export has to be handled by customs, much less that Japan needs to pay. Now it may surprise some. Councilmen who have read this matter and the report that comes with a lack of speech on the basis of what this conflict looks like. I told him earlier that I thought that 75% of our business needs to get paid, but I didn't mention a number for Japan. I don't have accurate numbers on this one, but I went on the lines that the Senate has opened to me to get the information, I offered a written inquiry to the highest level. Secretary of state. To my surprise, the answer was materially that the State Department had no information about this. That surprised me very much. I thought that when it came to such an important nation as Japan, it would have been information about this. It also surprised me because when I hired houses for a while earlier in this century, at least - without my ability to localize it by looking to sources I don't now have - it was my opinion and my colleagues that it was the percentage of the import from Japan to Iceland that the Japanese would need to pay a toll of which was between 25,55%. This is an amazing difference in the business of the nations. This is most important because I believe that to balance the relations between the nations in foreign trade, this is very important. I don't think we can have a position like this much longer. As a result of the declaration made by the Japanese government to open up to the world, Japan has already completed 14 free - trade contracts with various states and treaties in its part of the world, and last with Australia in the last summer, which have been discussed with several more people. Interestingly, one European country, as well as EFTA, Switzerland, has already completed a two - sided agreement with Japan without the use of EFTA. There are contracts between Japan and the European Union. So from the Icelandic perspective, I feel very urgent that Iceland will start a free business with Japan sooner than later to maintain its competitive attitude toward the nations we are competing with in Europe. Then I and the representatives of this body of Congress agree whether a vacation store with Japan will be secured by EFTA or whether it will be attacked by a two-sided contract between the states. Today, Japan's government is under the lead of Shinzo Abe. He was first elected in December 2012, and he already introduced a new economic policy in which he taught the ancient Japanese samurai to the three arrows. Under the third arrow, the plan is to make a major contribution to a vacation store. It now covers only about a fifth of Japan's foreign trade, but to achieve the target of third arrow in the economic policy of the Shinzo Abe government policy to increase the share of free trades in its foreign trade to 80%. I believe if we don't speed up and knock the door off firm and determined, we could have a long line. Most countries around the world, I don't talk about in Europe, would like to get free deals with Japan. I mentioned before our smallness, which may make business with Iceland less important to Japan than anything else. I also mentioned that there is not much to do with the Japanese because they have already achieved the freedom toll that I would like to have at the table for Icelandic interests. This means there's a special opportunity right now that I don't think we should be lost. For a long time, we have had a strong friendship with Japan. Japan has proved to be better than none of us when we have been having trouble. In particular, I recall that when the bank crashed here, like the 2008 trolleys, it was Japan's first financial minister, who declared that Japan would like to rely more on the International Bank Fund to allow room for loans to Iceland. It was very good, and it showed the goodwill that the Japanese have toward us. As I've traced this story of my life, the land's commercial life has long been standing on sound ground. In other words, Japan and Iceland have worked together to build up Iceland's energy - consuming industry to the point that for some 30 years we Icelanders have bought all the turbins used in Icelandic power plants, at least 30 years. sources of water as well as that I also think in geothermal plants, from Japan, with extremely familiar and beneficial benefits of financing for us. Mr. President. Now, in short, I have made an explanation for this synopsis proposal. I want to know that outside of me, being a 1st, this matter is given to many members of the council, to them why. Councilmen Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Fearari Proppér, Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, Katrín Júlíusdóttir, Helgi Hjörvar, Kristján L. Möller and Valgerður Bjarnadóttir. This list suggests that the proposal has broad support here at the National Parliament. I would also like to conclude at the end that when we represent all the political parties that are held at the council last summer, with Japan's Deputy Minister Makino, it was clear from all the representatives that they put this emphasis on this, in fact, it was the case that all the Icelandic agents presented the strongest. So no one needs to be deluded about the will of the council. The need is clear, and what matters most is an opportunity now. Mr. President. So I suggest that, after this discussion, this resolution of the synopsis will be referred to. Foreign Affairs. I am convinced that once she has won the case and has received reviews and the case comes back into the council, that support will be revealed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u166	Mr. President. We're here to discuss a case on deck. 266, about a change in rent law. The law is no. 138/1997, with subsequent changes, and with regard to students. I presented a bill comparable to that of the 143th legislature Council. It went to the welfare committee, who sent out requests for this late 2013. Five narratives were received, including from the Union of Icelandic rural society, which did not consider the bill time, since changes such as those suggested should be carried out with general housing measures. Other comments of the proposed change were positive. In view of the fact that the present organization is incontrovertible, the matter is changed slightly in the way that the standards for a fixed distance between schools and homes are removed, while other circumstances that make students difficult for school are left in charge. With me in this matter is why. Senators Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir, Linika Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir'sdotir. The bill is presented in two articles and is suggested there for 2nd and 2nd. Section 4. The law adds two new lawsuits, which are as follows: In spite of 1 Timothy 3: 1, a student in the community who has a legal home in the community has a legal home at an advanced and university level who, because of her studies, rents apartment housing in the same community as they have a legal home. ............................ In other words, if transportation to and from school is particularly difficult for a student, such as weather and condition, or lack of public transportation, the source is designed to pay rents to a student. A respectable president. The law on rent pay shows that the principle for handling such ransoms is that renters have rent houses in the rented room. Therefore, the exception law states that a student who has to rent an apartment house because of her study is entitled to rent renting only the renting house is in a rural society other than a student's law. It is proper to make it clear here that, for example, there is no room for law at school. At the time of community integration, rural communities were much larger than they are today, some of which were small in area. This may not have been important, but in areas where communities have joined and grown large, the students who live there are able to face their tenures in spite of a long distance from their school home and are forced to move from there and live near their school during the course of the study. This applies only, this change, if the school is in the same unit and the student's legal home. No matter how much larger the distance there is, it is realistic to drive between these places every day, even on a rough road, I do not talk about wintertime. We all remember how it was here last year, for example, in the east, when it was impossible for the days to come by and for bad times. It is also important to think that the youngest students who pursue high school do not have the driving rights of their age, except that students or their colleagues may not be able to afford cars or financial resources to get their children between school and home every day. Thus, the current organization of rent - rent payments leads high school students, even hundreds of miles away, to be denied their rent payments, and merely to the premise that school and law - enforcement are within the same community. But then we have student applications from a neighboring club at the school that in itself lives relatively close to school, and he gets approved rents because he does not live in the community. There was a minister whose parents, on behalf of their children, had tried such payment on the local community but received a demonstration of such a legal guardianship, i.e. that their child did not have a legal home at the school - rent facility. On this basis, the local community rejects because it is not required to do so under current law. The Social Services and Homing Committee confirmed this rejection, and the parents felt that this was a violation of an order of 90. I agree with that, and I believe that we are to put ourselves under correction for this discrimination by accepting the adjustment presented here on the law. So it is that a student needs a change of residence in order to obtain the right of rent money, but it is not permitted within a legal company. This adjustment is directed against this unjust system and criteria for the payment of a community without being applied to Article 4. Regulation No. 692/2003 on scholarship, as is equal to the level of scholarships and planning rent - ups to school students in rural areas who have to attend long - term schools. I don't have any numbers about the number of students who could have the right to pay rent if this were to be done. They may not be very many, they are the vastest and the most distant rural communities. There are quite a few, though, e.g. The city and the town of Isafjörg, the Council of West and Akureyri, are at the hands of Piglet and Gímíge, the West, the Coast of the Coast, the province of the Isthmus, the Sheik of the West, and the Akureyri, under which are the Sísey and Gímiray, the Trite Islands, and the Northern Council, the Red Sea. So there are many societies that have become so large and far apart, although students may not be very many. This may not apply everywhere, but surely some of the delights would accept that support. A respectable president. A student living in Gímney decides whether to pursue high school in Akureyri or in Olafurdir. In itself, it is shorter to go to Ólafurfjörður and then the student is no longer a member of a legion club and could get rent money. But if he goes to Akureyri, where he goes further, and it is obvious that a student does not take a ferry every day, if he chooses to live in the dormitory in Akureyri, he has no right to rent a house. He could then own a roommate who lives 13 miles away on Svalbard Beach or Svalbard, who lives in the rights of rent rent, even though he is only ten minutes driving home because he is not in the same rural group. I think everyone sees there's a lot of injustice in this. I took the last example and reexamined students living in the River Valley, since this idea is derived from parental complaint. There the distance can go up to 100 miles [100 km]. I don't think we'd want to live with it ourselves or our children to have to drive so far every day outside that sometimes it just can't be done. Public transportation is very different in the scattered areas of the country. Only from that point of view, if we look at it from that side, is it impossible in itself to assume that it is possible to do so and that students can get around home and school with good receptions every day? It is no less an important aspect of this relationship, when we are talking about students having a long way from home to school, that if they always drive home in the afternoon, or using public transportation where it will be, they may be missing all social life. There is, of course, a large part of high school participation in such social activities. Hence, this is a series of injustices and inconsistencies that we need to correct. Then there is the financial cost. It cannot be reasoned that a student who lives in a community but who has to go a long way has a higher income or less cost of her living at school than the one who has the right to get rent money. So if we want to be real, we need to change this. It is known that some rural society supports its students by some subsidies. But it shouldn't be -- what should I say - in the hands of a unit government at any time, that she has a plan to decide whether she decides to support her students or not. It calls for discrimination, and there is yet another reason why we support this case to create equality for study and living, because we all want to build up in the whole country, and also in the scattered parts of the country. A report published at the end of May 2012 provided a housing team with a proposal to ensure the same right to financial support for housing expenses regardless of the location. There's been a lot of discussions here at the council. The current minister of social and housing has made it his policy to improve the position of those in a rented market and in particular has discussed young people and said that they are working on future housing policies. I believe she'll be supportive of this, even if it's taken out of her full reexamination. The overall inspection is slow - down, and much of it can be done to slow things down. There are some things that are expected to be disputed, and it could result in such a justice, as I am here to suggest, and we, as these stand, cannot be fulfilled. That is why I decided to take only this one part out in the hope that the council will accept this, for it is a great penance, and it is a legal case. A respectable president. I hope the matter doesn't get lost in a committee and can't get out again, it often wants to be the fate of Congress. I have a conviction, and I think I have some confidence that this is a matter of possibility. I hope, then, that after this discussion here is about to be concluded, the welfare committee will take it to heart and be treated quickly. The reviews were positive, and the only negative thing that appeared in the review of the European Union was the whole reexamination, letting it wait. I don't think that's going to happen. I suggest that the matter go to the welfare committee and hope that they will be treated quickly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u167	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in public penalties, No. 19/190, or the prohibition on revenge. Transporters are besides me, Brynhildur Pétursdóttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Otttir Proppé, Páll Valur Björnsson, and Róbert Marshall. The bill suggests the punishment of revenge. Revenge is a means of dispensing or publishing images or videos without the permission of what is on the subject and which is meant to cause injury or discomfort or to be slighted. Often these are nude photos or clearly sexual photographs and/or videos of an individual. Revenge draws his name because the footage is sometimes given for revenge after a love affair, as it may be the distribution of footage that has been sent forth by a person in good faith, and then it is well - known that vendettas are composite, ready, and so precarious that the eye does not respond to the counterfeiting. Revenge films and videos are mostly on the Internet. The Internet is a democratic site of the 21st century, and this is an important tool in today's information community and in order for individuals to be able to use their freedom of expression. But it also has its own dark aspects, including the dark aspects of life. Because on the Internet, people, especially women, are often exposed to very systematic violence. Its access to the Internet is general and easy and free revenge that is distributed on the Internet can be distributed for years. Such violence is, in fact, repeated violence against the victim and a gross violation of his privacy. It is stated that messages are clear to the users of the network that when they have a photo in their hands, they do not have it and are not authorized to distribute it. This is especially true in the case of films and videos that the subject is not intended for distribution, such as in terms of mere history or sexual presentation or a condition that is evident to the person in the picture would consider his personal affairs and would not want the world to see. It is important that people take responsibility and not share in distributing footage as such. The last loss has been a great discussion of acts of revenge, both at home and abroad. Last April, however, there was an increase in the number of Bible studies. The news that in a foreign chat site, Icelandic men are trading pictures of young Icelandic girls, the youngest of 14th - year - olds. It was observed that hundreds of pictures of Icelandic girls were already on the chat site. New reports on the release of vendettas and violence bring us closer to the week, and we are, of course, freshly reminded of the news that during the past week we received of revenge and domestic violence, an incident that appears to be unassailable. It would appear, too, that women in prominent parts of society, e.g. In films and even politics, what appears to be a systematic threat has been being spread by the distribution of images of someone who has fallen to the point of debasement and oppression. The global community has responded, the discussion has been intense, and the conclusion is that there is no more than sexual offense. A large part of the victims of such acts of revenge are young people, and at the same time, it seems that a part of the attackers of revenge is one of the same group. It is important to teach young people the effect of distributing such offenses and the severity of such offenses. It is not sufficient to teach only about its legal effects, if the bill is accepted, although it will clearly shed light on the severity of the bacteria as these. It also requires teaching about its psychological effects on those who tolerate it. Everyone, including children and young people, has to understand the seriousness of such distribution and the extent and depth of its impact. They must try to ensure that those who send off images in a spiritless way must inform them and try to make them aware that such images can go into circulation, but by making distributions of the images of punishable ones, they are likely to be less likely to do so. At the same time, it is necessary to ensure that the responsibility and the blame are not blamed for the toleration of vendettas, as is often expected of victims of sexual abuse, but of bacteria, the shame of those who distribute the material and commit crimes. The bill is the first step in ensuring that the blame for the victim, for the distribution of the revenge suit, and is a clear message to the victims of such crimes that they are taken seriously as well as that the system is resistant to and against those who have offended them. The exposure of nudity to the individuals whose numbers have grown immensely has been difficult to apply to such a procedure under the law of general penal law, No. 19/1940. The publication and distribution of such graphics may be carried out on regulations of 233.g. The law states that a person who insults or insults his mate or his ex - spouse, his child, or another person who is close to a doer who will be considered to be in prison for up to two years. However, this law has many limits. It reaches only a mate, a former spouse, or a close family member, not a person or a person who distributes or publishes the footage. Then there is a relatively recent law of penalties, from 2006, and although there are several cases of vendettas on this basis, this has not been the basis for judicial action in the matter of vengeance. The release of such footage may also be on 229 stre. The law states that anyone who makes a public report about another person's personal affairs without a sufficient reason is that justice should be treated guilty or imprisoned up to one year. This law, like 233. gr. b, in XXV. the chapter of the law that turns on delinquency and violations of privacy. Revenge is thus burned to the point of a gross violation of privacy, which is also considered to be a sexual offense. XXII. section of penalties that discuss sexual abuse are requirements that have been cited frequently in the discussion of acts of vengeance. According to 2 mg. 210. g. Sentencing up to six months of imprisonment involves distributing or distributing pornography or other such items. 3 mg. 210. g. it is decreed that giving such things up to youths under 18 years of age would be the same punishment. In many cases, victims of vendettas are individuals under 18 years of age. Such an image falls under child pornography and is punished with up to two years'imprisonment, in accordance with 210 gr. a penal law. When it comes to threatening, extorting, or forcing the person on the film to compromise, to engage in sexual activity, or to other matters, a violation of various legal requirements may be involved. Impliciting that falls under revenge may also be a matter of some cases dealing with writers' law, No. 73/1972. Despite the above laws, there is no clear law that makes vengeance sensitive. Hence, the bill suggests that such regulations will be added to the penalties and taken without doubt as to the severity of these transgressions. Only then will national legislation and what other countries and countries have already done. A small number of countries have already taken special legal measures, although the need is urgent, but this is a great deal of the discussion in many lands today. Many states of the United States have already undergone legalization and in other parts of the North countries seem to have been similar to those in this country, and the demand for action and the changes in legislation have become loud. In Britain there is now a change in legislation in which the distribution of vendettas is rated as sexual abuse. In Denmark it is a fine or up to six months in prison to dissipate personal accounts or forms of privacy from another person or to the individual under circumstances that obviously should not be placed in public view. In Finland, among other things, it is a requirement for the sensitivity to distribute information that violates privacy. It becomes a guilt to distribute into a media or in another way provide people with access to a knowledge, a clue, or a picture that concerns a person's personal life so that they cause harm or distress or treat others with contempt. Norway also studies such legislation as Sweden, and Britain, as mentioned earlier, presents a situation similar to this for the council today, which clearly states that vengeance is not really a crime but a sexual offense. This bill suggests two changes to penal law, No. 19/1940. On the one hand it is suggested that the distribution and release of vendettas will be defined as sex violations in XXII. section of the law in case of release or distribution of footage or videos that depict an individual naked or sexually unacceptable to the subject of the images. However, it is suggested that we XXV. The chapter of the law on misdeeds and violations of privacy adds to the terms that make the release or distribution of the penalty when it is brought to bear pain or distress, or is contemptuous for the person who tolerates it. The distribution and release of vendettas, in which footage shows a person naked or sexually explicit, surely is meant to cause suffering or distress or to be disrespectful to the one who tolerates. However, in XXV it did not seem sufficient to establish only the prohibition against revenge. The chapter of the law states that this is a violation of privacy. Rather, we also believe that it is necessary and urgent to define the most serious forms of vendettas as sexual offenses. In the context of a discussion of the ban on vengeance, a discussion has often been made about the freedom of expression by those who spread vengeance. In particular, this has been discussed in the United States because, as previously said, many states have legally passed this issue, prohibiting acts of revenge. Of course, it is important to protect the freedom of expression, which is one of the basic causes of democracy, or as stated at 2 mgr. 73st. The Constitution will only set the freedom of expression by law for the sake of the Universal Order or State's security, for the protection of human health or morality or by the rights or reputation of others, as it is necessary and compatible with democratic traditions. This bill suggests that freedom of expression will be established by law in order to protect both the rights of others and their reputation. When such restrictions are placed on the possession of certain governmental rights to protect the rights of others, it is important that a measure of interest is not overstepped and a measure of interest is needed. When considering the interests of parties like these, it is evident that neither the person who administers vengeance nor the public has any special interest in it, but a serious violation of the privacy of the individual who is involved in such an act and his right to protect personal information. Such laws, therefore, clearly justify the right and the necessary restrictions on freedom of expression in order to ensure a far greater interest. A respectable president. I'm not gonna keep it any further tonight, there are other members of Congress waiting for a release, and I'd love to speed them up getting on schedule, many of them, like my case, waiting a long time. But I really appreciate the opportunity to speak for the bill tonight, and I hope, and I know that the council is doing a good job, and I've heard from my colleagues on the contrary that people think it's urgent. I expect the case to go to the General and Education Committee and it'll be taken into account as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u168	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is celebrate the fact that this case has come out. This is very important, and it had become urgent for some time since it was to deal with the problems of daily speech called vendettas. I would particularly like to commend the carriers of the bill for handling the freedom of expression because it is often here in this hall that is carrying some bill; it is necessary to add an injury to some form of expression, one or another, or to change it in some way, saying: It is not at all necessary to restrict the freedom of expression, but it is necessary to suppress the freedom of expression for the other or for this reason. Then they reject the freedom to express themselves because they feel justified. It is a much better place to do this and a much more mature discussion of freedom of expression because there are legitimate reasons to limit freedom of expression, which should be handled, as is done in this bill and rightly so. It is suggested that freedom of expression be restricted in the interest of privacy, which, of course, is absolutely justified. There's a lot of things I'd like to talk about at a better opportunity of making the move on this otherwise fine bill. I expect a very useful and up-to-date discussion by members of the Committee on the bill, but otherwise I want to thank you. I can't wait to see it become a law one day. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u169	A respectable president. Thank you for the talk and the compliment. It's a bit complicated, of course, with the freedom of expression. We want to protect it, absolutely. But as shown in my speech, this interest in those who want to use the freedom of expression to distribute verses of those who suffer such violence is very clear. The interests of the people are with them, and they need to be protected. The interests are not really on the other side. What right is it to humiliate others? As for the export, it may well be - hopefully it will be a careful treatment, and I suppose it will be possible, under a committee that if there is a problem, it can be eliminated and improved if necessary.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u170	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize a change to public penalties, No. 19/190, with subsequent changes. 1st par. The bill is the only one outside the validation code and is as follows, by permission of the President: - Oh, my God. - Oh, my God. par. The law will pass away. This is abdicating of certain legal procedures in the general law of justice, which is Iceland and Icelandic penal law, not to the proper degree, but to the contrary. Freedom of speech is one of democracy's cornerstones. It is fundamental in free society that the public can express themselves without fear of any kind of punishment, whether by government or by others. 125. g. a general penalties are as follows: any who publicly admire or disgrace religious doctrines or worship of a legal society in this country will be guilty or imprisoned up to 3 months. A case should not be appealed, except for the prosecuting of the prosecutor. This bill suggests the removal of the law. People have a different view of life, so they are expected to have language that one would normally consider offensive. Happily, the experiences of people in life and life are very different. It is entirely unrealistic, therefore, to expect human thoughts, feelings, and opinions to always fit within the bounds of so - called general well - being. It has been claimed that there is no need to be concerned about the legal principle proposed here to be dismissed where the charges are rarely used and therefore, in effect, a dead law letter: First of all, the reasoning is based on the fact that the Law is unjust. Second, the public has the right to study penalties and to discern in some way how restrictions are required on conduct and expression. Therefore, the law can have an inhibitory effect on society without passing courts. Third, Iceland's officials cannot condemn the application of comparable laws in less restricted countries while they can also be found in local penalties. Recently, the editor of the magazine Charlie Hebdo, in Paris, is thought to be the cause of the attack, among other things, the publication has published plans of the Múhameð Muhadad. U.S.A.A.L.A.A.Assalama állai nas Sadly, such attacks on people by expression are not new and democratic communities must respond with the clear message that freedom of expression will never be subjected to killings, violence, or threats. For one thing, the movers contribute the bill to the Council's sharing of a clear message by making the bill legal. Icelandic legislation has often been criticized for a number of problems with international institutions, including the condemnation of prison punishment for an illegal expression, including blasphemy. Much more is needed in order to eliminate this criticism, but here it is suggested that one of the most obvious reproaches of public penal law be removed. A respectable president. I suggest the bill goes through to 2nd. ... andwhat. General and Education Committee. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u171	A respectable president. I welcome this bill of Pirata. Of course, it is absurd that blasphemy is punishable in Icelandic law, that it can be punished by law for blasphemy. It's a time error, and the reasoning isn't good enough, it's never used anyway. It's just to be thrown out of the house, and nothing's going to stop it. Because of what? A senator mentioned the attacks in France, and from all the laws of blasphemy, I would like to hear thoughts at once. A senator on tolerance and consideration for different religions Counts 'em out. A senator would prefer that we encourage one another in some way in the community and support one another's tolerance and consideration for one another, especially when it comes to matters as hot as religion is? The most successful thing for me is not to incite people on the basis of religion. Rather, we should try to consider them in some way and not hurt others and not be exasperating people. I make it clear that I don't want to bring it in any way to the law, but I wonder about it in that context and I want to hear what's wrong. A senator has such a point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u172	A respectable president. Evelyn Beatrice Hall is supposed to have said - often intended for Voltaire: I may disagree with everything you say, but I will defend the right to say it. There's a difference between the expression and the expression itself. I agree that it is legal to proclaim all kinds of horrible opinions, including the opinion that I read earlier today as part of the meeting program, where I quoted an article in the morning newspaper that I thought was very damaging and dangerous. Such views, however, need to be expressable so that they can be discussed. Another option is at some point violent. There are only two ways I know how to limit power: one of them is democracy requiring freedom of expression and the other is violence that I just don't want to see and I don't think anyone in this room wants to see. So I'll answer a question. In terms of respect for religion and the worship of others, I am one of those who feel that it is most undesirable to treat people's religions with disrespect. But to have a frank, open discussion about religion, people need to be able to express their views, and the fact is, whether we like it or not, that the opinions of many people are insulting. So we need freedom to talk about it openly and honestly, and if we are to talk honestly about it, we can't shut it down within the framework of being polite or perfunctory, if that is the case. That is why it is very important for me to make a distinction between freedom to express something and what is expressed. I hope that answers a question. Senator. Finally, I suggest that the meetings of the Generals will normally be opened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u173	A respectable president. I hereby recommend a bill to correct a change in public penalties, No. 19/190, with subsequent changes, involving domestic violence and a restraining order. My companions are Karl Garðarsson, Páll Valur Björnsson, Guðbjartur Hannesson, Helgi Hrafn Gunn Gunnarsson and Bjarkey Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, or one from each category. Most of the carriers are on the General and Education Committee, which I expect the bill to arrive at the end of 1st. The bill suggests that the civil penalties of a special penalty law specifically involved in domestic violence will be legalized. This gives special attention to the severity of offenses considered to be domestic violence. The objective of the bill is to reduce the incidence of domestic violence, protect the victims, and deal with the problems of bacteria. The requirement for violating the law is to act against a mate, a former spouse, a child, or anyone close to a doer who feels that the grossness of the action has been enhanced. There is a special penalty that will follow the events along with other legal requirements, which can also be handled by the court. The bill also includes the authority of the police to charge violations against the restraining device. In existing legislation, such violations are only charged with the demands of a mistake. In recent years the Icelandic government has stressed the fight against violence in close relationships. Family violence is a community issue, and often it is chronic and difficult to deal with spiritually difficult subjects and caregivers as well as difficult research. Violence practiced in homes is not a personal matter but a social ill. Work on the bill was investigated on available reports, data, domestic violence information in Iceland. In addition, the development of legislation in this field was investigated in Norway and Sweden. The court case related to domestic violence was also examined based on the application of courts at 3 mg. 70 C. General penalties, No. 19/144. As a result, I want to thank Ingólfur Vignir Guðmundsson, Karl Garðarsson, Ægir Kristinsson, and Eiríkur Benedikt Ragnarsson for their assistance in the contract of the bill, and those who have been involved in it in late stages. The reasons and reason why we transporters present this issue today are that when the chief of the South American police took this matter to counterexamine and reviewed it, it was found that domestic violence was committed within the legal system. Despite the presence of procedures and lack of support for the tolerability and the post - product experience, there were conflicting problems with its payment and registration despite the presence of domestic violence, and there were not enough serious eyes in society. At that time, the reports were few with regard to magnitude and trust seemed to be lacking, in fact, the system seemed to lack all trust. Thus, there were many problems, and there were very different issues. As people began considering this, they were engaged in the work of achieving the most targeted response and the last loss has been launched on a Southern test project called ▪ Keeping the window open to the window. The task is being done in cooperation with other people, such as health care and social services, and I think it is very important that such institutions can work together for progress. All of this, however, is intended to prevent a critical offense and to achieve its beneficial effect by further charges and thus also to gain confidence in the victims because it often wants to lack trust if there is nothing to be done except further violence. There have been newer treatments of domestic restraining order and separation, with better assistance to those who tolerate it. But it is not enough to do all of this. Things must be followed. That's where this bill has to do with history. The law on domestic violence needs more than the only difference between normal offenses, i.e. Today, assault cases and assaults that may be classified as domestic violence are a burden of 3 mg. 70 C. a general penal law. This article came in after the Icelandic government wanted to take this group more closely, and a judicial committee was assigned to consider how this could be done. It was then considered taking special precautions for domestic violence into the general penalties. At that time, a court order found that it was rather appropriate to put the maammerism in 3 mg. 70 C. a general penal law. As I traced earlier, a year ago, the chief of police in Southnes came to the conclusion after the first month's inspection, and after a piece of work had been changed, this scheme of the legislature had apparently not come all the way. Iceland has signed the Istanbul Convention, which is used to prevent violence against women and within the immediate family and other factors, weight and restraining laws set in 2011. All of this has been done to curb domestic violence, but nothing has gone on. We found out, and the Ministry of Internal Affairs had also come to the conclusion that we could validate the Istanbul deal -- we've only joined him but not validated it - needed to set up a law like this. So we bring this transformation forward now. It should also allow longer periods of exposure to the fractures to become available, more research on the fractures, and facilitate application or proof of such matters. A very important point is that these matters can be handled. Britain has found that any pound of domestic violence saves 6 pounds per pound. The number of homicides involved in domestic violence here in Iceland is 40%. It's quite high and way too high. This is something we need to download, so this is a very important point. In terms of punishment, we need to consider whether a penalties can be applied as punishment may be postponed against a person's ability to obtain proper assistance. It is not enough to stop the abuse of the family itself; both bacteria and victims need to be helped to rehabilitate, to get adequate help, and to deal with the situation in order for this to be a permanent solution. You may be able to divide this into three episodes. The first resort has come to the home and to help, the first resort, and the domestic violence reported in the Southnes, and the local police have also begun to work on a new project. Also, the follow-up is that the legislation shows that something is done with this work, that it has consequences in the justice system, and third, it is a means of saving both the tolerance and the manufacturer, that they can get some sort of rehabilitation and work out their own business. Then I'm coming to 2nd. the bill which is also a change in the general penal law but has to do with the restraining order. I think it's a very important thing. It may seem that a Senate system is taking an excessive step, would like to be careful to introduce it, or would like to take more time to discuss it, but at any rate we have to take care of the rules I'm going to discuss regarding the restraining order and amend it at this council because it is very important to do so. In these cases it is often very difficult to get the one to take the initiative. He is willing to help solve the problem, to cooperate, but perhaps not be the one to lead. A restraining order was passed in 2011, where police and other relatives can request a restraining order on an individual, but many believe that by error in the legal process, public penalties have not been changed, so that police and caregivers could be accused or asked to be accused because of a violation of the restraining device. It is only one who is wronged who can ask for it. In most cases of domestic violence, a restraining order has fallen. So it's not much of a legal adjustment, but it's very important, and I hope that at least this council and family violence are getting paid for a great deal of good publicity. If that is the case with too much change, we will return with the next fall, which is fundamental to our acceptance of Article 2. This bill, of course, but I hope we can finish the whole thing. Then I've touched on the main thing in this case. I propose that the bill go to the General and Education Committee and look forward to working with the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u174	A respectable president. I'd like to express my joy with this bill. We really need and need to discuss these matters - in fact, we've been discussing these matters. ten years at least, of course longer - in some organized way as the senator went through here. We cannot wait indefinitely to discuss the same things over and over again, and we need to take action. It seems to me that the senator and those of the case have done their homework well. We need to go through this and take better control of domestic violence and, of course, a restraining order that we've been seeing is not working properly, the conformity of police and courts is not enough. It is likely that these laws are clear. As we work here, we know that many cases are fast for committees, there's a lot to be, and we overlook things, and we need to be able to fix them. I just want to ask the senator about this bill and then the Austrian way, which, if I know correctly, has been gone on the Southnes. Does it come in particular into this matter, into the penal code, or is it aside, so that I can look at the matter in my opinion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u175	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. You're right about what you're doing. This has been discussed for ten years, it is ten years since the judicial committee reviewed it, or more than ten years, and it came to this conclusion. I'd also like to agree that restraining order and domestic violence are very connected, and there are tools that work together, a restraining order is a means of solving domestic violence and trying to fix the situation. It may also be natural that while the group is finally being joined and entered into it, it would take some time for police and courts to regroup and find the way. Then it is just the right thing to discuss at the Council at the same time in order to address the doubts that arise and discuss them, so that some practice that is not developing that is in opposition to its objective. Regarding the Austrian route and what they've been doing in the Southnes, there's something like the legislation today and connected, these are the next steps that we're more dealing with in this bill. The rest is more early and is in good shape today. The problem so far has only been that the options offered by law and our system have not been new. That is what this has been all about, the Southnes police are doing, and police in the capital area have taken up today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u176	Mr. President. I thank the senator very much for these explanations, and they were good, and again I want to emphasize my appreciation for him and for other prominent men. In fact, I'm amazed that this isn't a administrative bill, and it hasn't happened in the last ten years. But, hey. A senator stands awake, and for that I am truly grateful.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u177	Mr. President. Thank you. Once again, a senator trusted that other members of Parliament will be as forward as they are. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir. Why is the matter not a management bill, it may be because we started planning on this in the last spring, the ones I read earlier, and I was also in cooperation with the local Minister with the case, and she informed me that she had committed this very matter to a judicial committee, and that is being discussed there, but we didn't think it should be delayed that this case should be brought up here if it might advance or improve the discussion and the discussion. So it's done in both places, and I think it could only help.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u178	A respectable president. It's a very marked bill. It is suggested that the law of the law of the law of the law of the law of the law be legalized, which specifically involves domestic violence. Special attention is given to the seriousness of domestic violence. The objective of the bill is to reduce the incidence of such violence, as stated in a report, protect victims, and deal with the problems of bacteria. The requirement for violating the law is to act against a mate, a former spouse, a child, or someone close to a doer who feels that the grossness of the action has been enhanced. There is a special penalty that will follow the events along with other legal requirements, which can also be handled by the court. The bill also includes the authority of the police to charge a violation against a restraining order, but existing legislation only charges such a violation of what was wrong. This is an important innovation that is important. In recent years the Icelandic government has stressed the fight against violence in close relationships. Family violence is a community issue, and it is often chronic and difficult to deal with, spiritually difficult, and difficult to study. Violence practiced in homes is not a personal matter but a social ill. The appearance of the bill gives a clearer picture of the magnitude and severity of domestic violence as the violence can be dealt with in a more specific way today. The importance of public interest must be considered to reduce any kind of violence, especially that can be seen in children with serious consequences. Those who tolerate domestic violence often display signs of coercion. The bill is designed to prevent the power of violence, as previously said, to determine whether such matters are being reported. Family violence is a social ill that may be the result of a charge, because of its contact with a doer and previous contact, to face further persecution or threats in one form or another that will be considered particularly damaging to the offender and to his family. It has to be said that the legalization of the bill will have a figurative effect on society's attitude, that the violations committed under the shelter of family bonds are under strict pressure. Will be effective in preventing the vaccination and will also allow bacteria to seek appropriate help. Police in the capital area have been working on specific procedures for registration and treatment of domestic violence since 2005. In 2013, 355 cases of domestic violence were recorded in the police capital area, with a total of 327 in 2012. In the preceding years, the cases were about 300 a year. The police report is expected to be due to the nature of these fractures only a small part of the fractures. According to the director's office on the Southnes, it is clear that a case in the family is being treated within the legal system. In addition, the investigation of such cases is lacking, despite the increase in the government's emphasis on the Argument of the past few years. This occurs at the same time when law modification was made intended to contribute to the development of events in this field. For example, the law of No. 85/2011, on restraining order and expulsion from home, not new as we should. There is also a lack of support for both the victims and the victims of domestic violence. In view of its office, the group of paints is not color enough of a serious community, and there is a need for change of viewpoint. There is good reason to sharpen the lawman's position on domestic violence in general penalties and to increase the possibility of using resources to correct and eliminate such violence. In view of local and international views on family matters and the national commitments of Iceland in this area, it must be reasonable to conclude that Icelandic legislation will more clearly reflect the opinion of the Lawgiver on the fact that violations committed in close relations have certain special advantages. Then you will see the criminal rights and criminal moisture involved in defenses and attitudes about the figurative effects of such legal rules on family relationships. In view of the above points and the national commitments of Iceland in connection with the validation of the Istanbul Convention, it is necessary to establish a specific law on domestic violence. Today, 11 countries have validated the Istanbul Convention, but 10 countries have been required to accept it formally. The last loss has been carried out by police and Southnes Social Services, which is called keeping the window open. The experience of this project leads to the conclusion that existing legislation is sufficient when it comes to the first resort to domestic violence, i.e. to provide help and to assess the situation and risks. On the other hand, the legal rights to comply with matters are lacking in the failure of the prime measures. It is also necessary to consider children who need to be subjected to or treated with violence in their homes, the sanctuary of their children's homes. This bill is an important step in stopping domestic violence and defending its victims by all means. Therefore, there is good reason to encourage members of the Parliament to give this fine example of conduct.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u179	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize a law on merit taxation, no. 50/1988, with subsequent changes. The Actual Network aims to change the ESP environment and is on the ground for the protection and development of the athlete's volunteer activities and for the development of man - made workers. The bill's on the roof. 608, No. 411. My importers are down. Councilmen of Ásmundur Friðriksson, Páll Jóhann Pálsson, Einarsson and Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir's daughter. The same carriers and I passed a petition on a review of the merit tax environment of the sports movement and submitted it to the 143th Legal Assembly in the matter of No. 4,87 p.m. 847. That suggestion sounded like this, with President's permission: ▪ The General concluded to hide financial and economic secretarys taking into account the value of extra taxes in the sports movement and provide for the General bill to legalize a change in the terms of cost taxes, No. 50/1988, which includes: a. Sports and young people will be excluded from the value of a supplementary tax from their functions, in all respects, b. athletes and young communities have the authority to get reimbursement tax from the gymnasium of athletes in their sports, work, and purchases. This arrangement of interpretation was made clear by a committee and sent out a review. Many helpful and practical tips were received, and all positive ones, including the Allied People, the Association of the Third Sector, the Alliance of the Icelandic Boy Scouts, the Christian Society of Young Men and Women. It was the reviews of these members to want to go further with this suggestion so that they could reach all members of the community, but there were very positive comments about the proposal. Then there were reviews of a positive nature, and with strong reasoning, including sports communities, rural communities, and special relationships. At the same time, there were reviews from the Associations of Professional Life, Business Council, and Federal Taxes directors who supported the undisputed national importance of the sport movement, but in general these parties are opposed to further access into the top tax system. What has changed since the fact that we move on to the council arrangement is that we now present a legal bill with the same objective in mind. It suggests that these changes are made in terms of credit laws, No. 50/1988, which we believe is the goal of the bill. The objective is for the government to advance organized sports activities and to participate parents and other volunteers in organized sports activities in order to protect and promote volunteer work so that guardians and parents can continue their sports movement, without being financially responsible. Second, to promote humanitarian activities in order to ensure that all practicers, workers, and other practicers, and volunteers can enjoy the best of their facilities and equipment for sports activities, thus fostering all the social activities of sports and youth. This is also fully in accordance with the government's objective and policy plan which highlights the importance of sports, hobbies, and youth, which says, under the permission of a president: The government stresses the importance of sports, hobbies and youth and integrating play and study whenever possible. Support should be made that as many as possible can find something to do with sports, art, art, or social work. Such a job will develop and have high prophylaxis values. A respectable president. The government's mind on youth, sports, and hobbies is not involved in legal matters and prevention values and the national importance of social and sports activities is, in fact, recognized and confirmed. The bill we are discussing here is certainly in line with the plans and emphasis that are being proclaimed in these terms in the government covenant. Now, if I turn to the bill, I'll turn around. The bill to protect the powerful volunteer movement at its core. Put it this way: Without these volunteers, we could not carry out the ambitious work that we really do. In terms of the tax taxes, I.D. is about the tax family area, and here we believe that to meet the needs of the sports movement and to support and promote the volunteer work in the exercise needs to be made up of a change in Article 2. The law, or as suggested in Article one. The bill that says, by permission of the President: We're at 3 mg. 2.g. The law adds to the new figure, the service and sale of a sports club used to raise funds to live up to the core workings of such associates, including them. fundraisers for social events, such as sales of advertising, publishing, trading, restaurants, sales sales, or services. In this article involved in the volunteer work, it is to say that the extras or functions of the non-employees are listed at 3 mg. 2.g. Act of merit taxation. As the law is today, sports is the exception, as shown in Section 3. 2.g. The law. For example, in the national taxpayer's instruction on the taxableness of an athlete's company, there is a discussion of this law, specifically on page 5. 4. With President's permission, I'll have to read it for a more detailed explanation: No. No. No. No, no, no. No, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. 2.g. worth taxation is a sports function that is beyond the value of a valuable tax. At the same time, the facilities for sports are rented, as well as those that specifically require disposal of swimming cars, ski lifts, sports events, sports performances, and clinics to be free. Later, says: ▪ All athletes sales in a facility for exercise and practice sports (social fees / exercise fees) will depend on the terms of this enforcation. The same applies, for example, to the disposal of the bowling alleys and snogging tables. Work within Iceland's Conspiracy and the Bridge Union of Iceland will also fall below. It should be noted that in the dissociation of the tax authorities on what is considered for sports and juveniles, it refers to a team that has sports in its policies and has gained access to the sports movement by taking part in a local or sports community, which quotes II. section of the Act of Iceland's Physics and Olympics. It is generally believed that the law should be interpreted in Article 2. the valuable taxes, along with other excluded ones are narrow, so monopolitans are the income of the cost of sports events, income of the exercise costs, and other income directly related to the exercise and are not competing with others who practice valuable taxpaying jobs. As I said before, there is a 2nd Level. Section 3. on the value of tax service, which includes, by permission of the president. To collect and give an account of worth, and the money to the state is upon these stakes: 2. Colleague partners, as well as other partners and institutions, even though they are excluded from the tax laws No. 90/2003, about income taxes, or special laws, as these parties sell products or taxable services to compete with commercial companies. The tax obligation also includes the sale of taxable products and social services only to members. Sports is not considered to be taxable parties under these regulations on income taxes, No. 90/2003, where the budget does not seem to be running jobs, as the law says. The exception of this tax from the cost of membership to sports games and other sports related activities, social records and public financial contributions, social exchange fees, and participation in gymnasiums and jurists. The fact that there is no value tax to be collected from the exercise fees, the introduction to sports events includes that athletes cannot pay resources, they do not receive reimburse money from purchased sources for this activity, and it can be seen and understood in 4 mg. 2 g. the worthy tax returns, but it says: U.S.A. 3 mg can only be used to sell or provide jobs and services that can, but not for the worth of taxation (in taxes) of the resources to the underdeveloped function, cr. 3 and 4 mg. Section 15. and 1st. 16. A respectable president. This is a technical list of the law, which has become quite the business of sports and teenage partners. In view of the well-to-do, and without my going to set up a specific example here, the sports and juvenile business runs at tens of millions and in some cases in hundreds of millions of parties each. At the same time, there is a sharp distinction between master's accomplishments and younger classes, while there is a big difference between financial needs. Although it is often difficult to distinguish fully between performance and achievement training and other training of public members, and preferably younger athletes, there is a great difference between sports when we share achievements in general social activities and the building of younger members of society, while reaching the level of achievement is the golden root, the motivation needed for young people to participate in sports and to exert themselves. If I get back to the tax material of the bill, the business like I came into the budget and governments, and advice, is unsurpassedly designed by volunteers. Happily, parents have become increasingly involved in such activities, thus sharing in the work of training their children. It has to be used to finance exercise and competition, but now it is that despite the general value of public sports companies, they are considered to be worthy of taxes if they sell products or merit tax service for jobs or in competition with commercial companies. Such obligations also apply when goods and services are sold exclusively to members of the community. In this way, an athlete's partner should sign up on a credit card if the combined income of the VAT sale is more than 1 billion. K. without worth tax per 12 months. It may easily be noted that it is early to gather when we are looking at one association with ten divisions and ten to twelve groups within each section of our age. When we look at the scope of business and the ways that volunteers look for, it makes it clear that they are narrowly tailored to finance the operation, and it is not desirable to complicate things or put volunteers on the responsibility of these matters. Therefore, we emphasize that funding routes fall under the law's terms; a fund to support nuclear activity, including social competition and exercise travel. As we look at these fundraisers, we list advertising, publishing, restaurant sales, and sales of goods and services. The first thing to do is to sell on advertisements or benefits on the basis of treaties is the value of taxation and to collect and return a valuable tax from that sale as it is being done today. There are certain sales on advertisements, sales on advertisements, and sales of advertisements or lines in playbooks and social papers. In spite of this duty, it is now usually that the cost of sports companies is not in any way consistent with the contribution or payment, with the more being given strength. In this regard we can give a witness to the decision given by the head tax committee, No. 194/2007, with the conclusion that the payment of a financial company to cooperate on the basis of a cooperative agreement, is partly a means of financial support for members in spite of the publication of an advertisement in the organization's magazine, as well as an advertisement of a Web site. In this case it can be said that the head taxation committee has, to some extent, suggested that treaties are, in all cases, clean commercial agreements. Then there is often the occasional publishing of magazines and magazines, with advertisements and no lasting activity over a longer period of time. As mentioned earlier, it is common to find strength rather than advertising, where advertising value is limited when repaying is out of harmony with the value of the so - called advertisements. For example, when a factory shows a picture of a tugger owned by an advertising sign at the sports club's stadium. In many cases, it can be claimed that the actual cost of advertising, such as on a sign, is greater than the actual income of the company's company. In this way, the commercial activities of the sports club can be slanted for commercial purposes, i.e. For profit, which is the basis for a party to be registered on a merit tax file and return abets worth tax in accordance with 5 mg. Section 5. Act of merit taxation. According to this, it should be possible to justify and establish that sports and juveniles would be excluded from a valuable tax when it comes to sponsoring, in spite of the cost of advertising for such concentrations, there is no reference to advertisements other than at the races or races, or to the construction of that group. The same can be said of advertising publication as a result of an intervening sponsorship version. It should be acknowledged, when it comes to an exception, that there is a contradiction to the need and policy in the pursuit of a simple value of the tax system, including a reduction in requirements. On the other hand, the Ministry of Education and Culture is quoted by the President's permission: ◯ In sports, sports out - of - school activities are based on the free movement of the people of the country. Also says: ▪ The sale of the local people in sports, sports sports and public sports, needs the entrance of a country, rural society, and professional life. And furthermore: There will be a comprehensive suggestion on what to do in order to simplify the management environment of an athlete's partner. But that's the point of this bill. The objective of this bill certainly meets the obligation to simplify the sports environment. But it must be acknowledged that it will complicate the tax environment as it simplifys the environment of the sports movement. It is the responsibility and duty of us to respond to the position of the volunteer team and the responsibility and real obligation of volunteers to pay dues on merit tax. As matters are concerned, the responsibility of the executives and other volunteers on the front and reporting signs, tax returns, and public fees may be high and even greater than most volunteers realize. Officials can resort to extreme reluctance to even imprisonment. It must therefore be the prerogative of the Lawgiver to simplify the sports movement's management environment, that their interests outweigh the measures taken. The basis for a powerful sport in Iceland has long been based on powerful volunteer work, in which well - prepared volunteers, parents, and guardians help the sports movement without accepting a reward for their work. This unselfish activity is recognized in the sports Act, which says that out - of - school sports is based on the free movement of the people. There is an increase in the importance of national sports, where a number of studies support the protection of sports. In addition, studies have shown that participation in children and adolescents reduces the risk of any abnormal behavior, i.e. that children and adolescents are attracted to some form of irregularity. For example, youths who do not participate in organized sports activities are more likely to use drugs than those who are active participants in such activities. The participation of organized children has many positive effects, but it has been shown to relate to study results, a stronger sense of identity and self - respect, better health, and a general state of mind and physical well - being. Thus, in the form of less stress on the health system, the activities of athletes and young people and the social interests they provide have resulted in significant health benefits. The evidence shows that increasing exercise reduces the occurrence of serious illnesses, and it has a wide range of research, domestic and abroad, showing positive effects on school and labour markets. The masterpiece and the study of the economic value of sports by Þórdís Lilja Gísladóttir highlights the cost of what she calls - at the permission of a president, is quoted in this article by Þórdís - a sports youth and a drug youth. It shows that the cost of society at sports is in your range of 17◯28. K. On a yearly basis, however, a person who falls prey to drugs costs the community $1.4.9 billion. K. A respectable president. Inherently, the trend is that the number of users is increasing in both achievement and public sports. The last figures from Iceland's Sports Association say that more than 27% of the population are registered practicers but were 19.7% in 1994. About half of the nation are registered associates, and they divide tens of thousands of people as human governments, committees, and advice free of charge for the sport movement. The social network that lives in the sports movement is late appreciated for the financial and the training roles it plays. But we face the fact that the social background of the sports movement is of immense value to us, and we need to acknowledge it with financial support. There is a need for construction of workers to achieve increasing numbers, both competitive and public sports, child- and adolescent activities, and perhaps especially social status, exercise and competition. The fact is, in many lands, the challenge is that with conditions and demand, there is more than there can be. This bill is suggested to face this trend and to support the construction of workers, but Article 2. That's what the bill does, and then it says, by permission of the President: In the period of January 1, 2015, to January 1, 2016, athletes and young people should be reimbursed 100% of the valuable tax paid by human work in the new building, rebuilding and maintenance of athletes, as well as the maintenance of such projects. Now we see that the timing of the bill input last year makes it necessary that the time period specified in this paragraph needs to be more careful. I suppose in terms of what? The Economic and Business Committee will consider this. This article, Article 2. the bill that I read here part of, the appeal in the reimbursement of the campaign all jobs that were first started with a change in the cost tax law in 2009. This was 100% reimbursed for work on their own homes and summer houses, but the campaign has run its course, and since the years of the year, it is as if it were previously 60% reimbursed. It has to be said that the campaign was very successful and is actually being used by this methodology to promote man - made engineering in support of the athletes, while at the same time promoting sports life and public health. To quote the policy again in these areas, it says that public sports is one of the key factors that can influence a life - style in the direction of a healthy life - style. It is important to ensure good sports facilities. This is the policy of the Directorate of Sports and Ministry (S) of 2010/2015. Here's a suggestion to go into action and to follow government policies in their declared support of sports and rural communities, but I stress that, as with the first time, when we presented the case, it is important to continue working the case in cooperation with the Supreme Court. Secretary of finance. Of course, financial benefits need to be evaluated, and it is so important that these suggestions get along with the overall reviews and changes that have already come from the highest level. Ministers of the value tax system, which we saw, among other things, appeared in the budget and approved by the budget. It is estimated that the entire effort cost about 2 billion dollars of lost income each year, but it is difficult to appreciate how much temporary effort you put in this game would cost you a trust fund. In contrast, it increases the scope of other areas, such as employment and pay, and the income for a remuneration in other forms. It may be noted that at the end of the New Year, building products were reduced and the top levels of cost tax dropped, thus helping to the contrary. The end-of-the-viewers of the bill had a fine meeting with athletes from around the country, and they reasoned that it was an enormous interest for the entire sports movement that the State would back up the sport movement by the convention that appeared here in the bill and make brasen reforms of the legislation in order to strengthen volunteers and meet an increase in demand for human mobilization. A word of speech states in the declaration of the meeting I am witnessing to: The Chairman's brother and the representative of the following athletes is celebrating the proposed bill for a change in law No. 50/1988 on credit. The meeting encourages the conference to take the matter into consideration and accept the ideas presented in the bill. It is clear that if the suggestions on which the bill contains them will greatly increase the number of volunteer activities in the local sports movement and will help sports companies to develop athletes. With these changes, sports movement is made possible and more powerful than ever before. A respectable president. The call is clear, and the matter is urgent. It can be noted, however, that rural debt has and greatly slowed development in many parts of the country. I am here to quote an article from Eyjólfsson in September 2014 quoted by President Halldór G.. ▪ The situation is long broken and never done anything about it. According to the younger category for the coming winter, 14-year-old boys will train until 11 p.m. on Tuesday nights and 16-year-old boys until 11 p.m. on Thursday. I have two children of my own who have been doing this for the past few years, and this is way too long, but the legal curfew of children aged 13 to 16 is until ten o'clock in the evening. This is one small example, similar to that of many companions in many parts of the country. For example, long - waiting lists are being held in many places among the gymnastic communities and the sports games departments. I want to quote again and again the policies in force this year at the gymnasium of Education and Culture. The Ministry's policy takes into account the laws the State has in accordance with sports and international law and contracts associated with the affairs of the institutions and the free partners involved in the local sports business. There are goals that should be worked, and it can be taken - very clear and consistent with the bill I have considered - that the environment and the organization of national sports activities will be improved and therefore a worthy place in Icelandic society. There's a harmonization between the current policies, sports dating, and this bill we're discussing. This is certainly a bill that supports the legal duties of the government and sports policy. Of course, it is our religion that this is an opportunity, and it is time to be better at the nation's largest amateur sports movement. With this bill approved, a big step will be taken in protecting volunteers and strengthening workers. It is our hope that the bill will receive a sound base, a careful coverage, and a walk after the 1st. To what? The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u180	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing this essential issue here, but as he put it well, the sports movement is very important in our community. There is a tremendous number of volunteer work, and many tremendously powerful volunteers have put forth great effort to build athletes, which we may be seeing in the success of our athletes, who are successful worldwide. These activities may be attributed to a considerable degree of success and to all the volunteer work that has been around them. One of the good volunteers is Jónas Þórhallsson, in Grindavik, who has often put in touch with me the idea of building up the valuables by removing the valuable tax. We know that the tax system is used to help important functions, such as the rescue and so forth, but rescue tools are reserved for a worthwhile supplementary tax. I'm happy now that the case is in parallel with a review of the value of the tax system and the entire tax system. It is important that we work together, but as the senator entered, this is a bit technicalally complex and can be a number of complications there. It's hard to leave with leaveovers, it's very difficult to do. It can introduce a competitive attitude, et cetera. In athletes and athletes, the work has become varied, and the activities of the athletes may overlap frequently. I wanted to thank the senator mostly and hope that the matter will work out well here in the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u181	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason's answer, mainly the support for the case. I found in my speech that we had first done this in a synonym, the purpose of it was just to do this together with an overall review of the merit tax environment, as clearly indicated by the Supreme Policy. Secretary of finance simplifying the valuable tax system. It's been giving in the past decade. It is, of course, our most powerful revenue system. We may not be misled to believe that there is a conflicting goal, as well as that of my importers. The bill is for the simplicity of the sports extra tax environment, but at the same time it paradoxs and violates this simplicity of the valuable tax system as such, i.e. to reduce the number of leaveovers. Nevertheless, we still believe that this public good work and child - rearing role and importance of the volunteer work provide a lot of money that it is worth the effort to take on these changes and, of course, to promote human activities to reach out for this important social work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u182	A respectable president. Yeah, it's all gonna work out the changes in the tax system. I think it's important that we achieve here a simple and powerful tax system, both the valuable tax and the income tax system. And then, once the simple one is in place and the tax system is active, it is just ideal to use the tax system to encourage volunteers in the building of athletes, such as we are using the tax system to promote innovation companies, wands, and so on. Although the goal is a simple and powerful tax system, it does not rule in my mind that it is used for good works. I think that's exactly what this case is going to be, and hopefully we'll find a better way of getting it all together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-03-62.u183	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason for the support his comments on the bill. We share in the opinion of how important it is for us to promote and strengthen volunteer work and to meet the needs that are present, and it is very clear that athletes need to simplify the environment for the volunteers. It's just today's fundraiser that the lawgiver, I think, needs to take action. That's the goal of this bill. Besides, it's very important to get to the fort. We would like to look to this parenting importance as organized sports activities are and have been confirmed by research. Yes, I hope and I have full faith that we will have a sound foundation here in the Senate and the council will come with us into this. Then I highlight it in treatment. The Economic and Business Committee that, as most of them, sports companies, partnerships, communities and members such as the employment community and business councils, the head of state tax and others who are concerned about the matter.
