ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-92.u1	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to correct the change of chemical law, No. 61/2013. The 2013 chemical process was a major step, for new universal laws were needed on the complex and chemical issues involved. By means of the chemical law, there has been a better perspective on the group of litigators. Monitoring is now highlighted at the top of the chain, with the highest responsibility, with the most dangerous chemical products to protect people's health and environment. In the environment of children, biofuels are expected for general use as well as for industrial functions. The chemical legislation is in the process of continuous development. The purpose of this bill is to shift electronic and electronic devices from the EEA to the Agency, introduce the EEA types, sharpen specific requirements, and modify wording in view of the experience established on the implementation of chemical laws. The main ingredient of the bill is three. First, it is the induction of EU types. The bill is intended to implement the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council 2009/126/EC of the II. In-party recovery of gas gas gas gas vapor in the fuel supply of motor vehicles at gas stations. The purpose of this directive is to improve air quality by reducing gas emissions into the atmosphere. Among other things, all new gas stations are suggested to be equipped to restore gas gas if there is real or anticipated translucency beyond certain limits. The same is true of all existing gas stations who are expected to undergo major renewal. It is also suggested that steam disposal equipment meet minimal demand for gas gas recovery. Therefore, it is very important to implement the requested directive as soon as possible in light of this and as much as to have the Commission decided on April 8 of this year. Showing this issue against Iceland to the EFTA Court, where the directive had not yet been introduced into Icelandic legislation. The bill is also aimed at strengthening improvements in the implementation of European Parliament Directive and Council 20123/EC for the change in Directive 1999/32/EC for sulphur content in ship fuels. The bill suggests that sulphur content in fuels, both used in the country and in Iceland's pollution legal history, should follow the restrictions established by the Minister in the Regulation. The bill is also aimed at implementing the Directive of the European Parliament and Council 2009/0/EC on the change in Directive 98/70/EC on gas quality and diesil fuels and systems to monitor and reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The bill suggests that only marketing will be permitted for fuels that meet the requirements of materials set out in Regulation. Among other things, fuel supply is expected to be responsible for monitoring and reporting in relation to the current demand. In addition, the bill is aimed at completing its Regulation and Council Regulation (EEC) No. 517/2014 on fluorinated greenhouse gases, called F- gas, and the breakdown of Regulation No. 842/2006. The Regulation set out measures to reduce emissions, trade, restrictions, and reductions in the supply of fluorinated greenhouse gases. The protocol is designed to strengthen existing measures to reduce emissions and set goals for these substances. The content of the bill, in turn, turns to shift the monitoring of hazardous chemicals into the EEA's electronic and electronic devices to the Agency, as I was in the past. The European Parliament and Council Directive 2011/65/EU, on the limitation of the use of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electronic devices, was implemented in its time, with the restrictions on the use of certain hazardous substances in electronic and electronic devices. It must be considered that monitoring the implementation of the directive will be better carried out on the role of the Agency to employ the marketing monitoring of electronics, which therefore includes additive effects and increased efficiency. It is suggested that monitoring and adaptation measures be carried out in accordance with the Ecosysteming Act related to energy consumption. The bill suggests a third way of making the wording clearer, streamlined, and more responsibly implementing the law in the light of experience, and the implementation of a change in term use in new EEA types. For example, it is assumed that documents on plant conservation and elimination products and changes are required to be carried out in reporting to the EEA for the marketing of toxic substances and authorised materials. Furthermore, the marketing of materials and chemical preparations that do not fulfill the laws of the law on markings is recommended. The purpose of this is to guarantee the business owner's responsibility not to sell unmarked products. It is also suggested that the EEA has the authority to use government fines to break them against bans. A respectable president. I've traced the bill's main subject and suggested that the bill be after the 1st. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-92.u2	Mr. President. Just a few things about this bill, which is technical and may not be easy to read or read but still very important. I agree with that with the highest. Minister, the chemical law was a very important step. We were in desperate need of a uniform review of this area of attention in recent years or years, in view of the fact that there are always new and new information available on the many subjects we are using in our modern society, some of which may be quite dangerous if the matter is not well handled. This is part of the update of the requirements of existing law, a change in explanation, or a limitation of terms, and to some extent, new types are being introduced or prepared for the arrival of others. As you can see in the bill, it's a very long list, to be honest, because at the end of the bill, in 34. g., they're listed to me as 13 commands in this field applied to the 69th par. The law and we're in trouble with one of these things if I heard a little bit from the highest level. Minister. I have no particular opinion of this implementation of electronic products to the European Environment Agency, and I trust it will be well thought of, but there are several other things I am only staying on. First of all, the gas stations and equipment used to restore gas gas vapor, which is a substantially complex and is being introduced here. First, the question arises: Is there any evidence of the likely cost when it is recorded here? Today, the size limit may not be too much for most of the smaller gas stations in the country. I don't know exactly what it is, but first of all, because I can't find anything in a bill with the bill that there's been some analysis, I wonder if it's going to be worth a lot of money. As a result, in view of our circumstances, there is another question about the scope of our introduction. Is it fully used with these sizes, or do we have considerable opportunity to implement this in the strength of circumstances here? A large number of payoffs are wide and wide. Perhaps they all go under this size limit, but I still ask for information: What is involved, and what is the result here? Is this binding primarily to the largest collection station, even though it is not an intractable amount of 100 or 500 tons per year or more cubic meters? Third, I ask about the adaptation period, which is being given to change the departments that are large enough for them to take action on these projects, in view of the fact that we are likely to be on the move late with this induction. It's a good time to 2018, if I noticed correctly. Is that all the time there is? Is it our duty to complete those changes before that time? Perhaps it is just an ambitious goal not to let this delay for long if a minister has any information about it or after an incident that will be considered on a committee. Then I come to the sulfur content of fuel, especially in Navy oil. There's an introduction that has some effect, I suppose, in Iceland, in view of the fact that we have some huge fishing fleet and some freighter is now sailing to the country even though he's probably all on foreign flags, but that doesn't change that when he gets into our jurisdiction, he's gonna have to meet the rules here. The problem is, the fleet's not all local, and it's going between jurisdictional states. As it is thought of by others, the range of limits is often different depending on whether you are sailing on the sea or on the coast or on the ocean. In the Norse field, this has been quite a topic of observation, and I'm asking the highest. A minister should consider whether this has been worked to some extent with the North countries or to take into account their preparation for the induction process. I have participated in the Norwegian field of taking up long meetings and listening to many talks, especially from my friends, we were the Baltic, who are preoccupied with this because they have pondered the possibilities and even wanted to challenge the government to coordinate the induction of the North countries so that there are no obvious reasons why there were differences in legal standards in various states. Of course, in many ways it would be best to fit in with the most common area, the transport areas in which ships travel. There must have been some preparation in the Ministry about which sulphur content or the incinerator point should be used. There is now little information on this in the bill, really none, because the matter is to be handled by law. It may well be the best move, but we're very little closer to the threshold set here. Will they become ambitious, strict, or less strict, they be different, for example, to the coastal, naval fleet that is here and is in the country, and to the harbors of day - to - day cargo vessels that sail more naturally on the ocean or larger fishing vessels that go to sea and perhaps to some extent to fish within the jurisdictions of other countries? I'm curious to know, including. In view of the discussions I have had in the Norse field, what preparation has taken place in this regard in terms of the thresholds set here, consistent with the introductions in neighboring countries, as well as the agreement with the sector on these preparations. Is he left behind in view of the fact that this is to be carried out by law?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-92.u3	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his speech and questions asked. First, it's true that it's very technical. I don't think I'm a very technical woman. Senator, but I'll try my best to answer the questions he's raised. As for the ships, I start there, they didn't have a special relationship with the North countries, and I guess that's why the senator is more informed than the one mentioned here about what has been discussed there. So we are in this bill to comply with the laws, regulations and directives of the EU on sulphur content in shipping fuels and to be introduced by a Regulation, which we have considered to the old Regulation on these 2%. I don't know if that answers his question. Einar of four large gas stations has brought in the steamcans, but of course the bill puts additional responsibilities on fuel - selling companies. The annual sales of the local gas can reach only a small amount of 500 litres at a gas station. As I say, there are four gas stations that sell more than 3 million gallons [3 million L], and they have already installed these necessary equipment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-92.u4	Mr. President. I understand the highest. A minister may not have been in a position to prepare answers to various technical questions, as it may be well informed later. I had a feeling that there were not very many gas stations that supplied more than 500 thousand tons a year, but some of them are numbered in millions of gallons. It then, of course, is a requirement for a renewal of operating stations and any new ones that might land above those limits. I suppose most people would like to increase their gas sales so that most people would probably wonder if they were opening up a new fuel supply, at least in many places, meeting these requirements not to become involved. With regard to the sulphur content, I'm not going to claim more than I can afford because I don't have data in my hands and I don't have anything else to rely on but my smaller than that sounds like a high content, 2%. If I know correctly, some people in some places have it down to 1%, maybe it's in coastal areas or oceans, but somehow it beats me that as continued 2%, as if in maximum regulations, are high thresholds if they're supposed to apply to the entire Icelandic fleet.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-92.u5	A respectable president. I hope the bill will go to the committee as soon as possible, and then visitors can be called and also so, for example. the cost to be paid. Because I didn't complete a previous answer, as said about food on the effect, at 103 gas stations it will be necessary to set up steam vapors when undergoing major renewal or new stations. That's all there is to it. However, as for the sulphur content, I feel that both the committee's members will be examined as well as when regulations are put in place so that I do not intend to go deeper into it at this stage.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-92.u6	V.E.G. President. I recommend a synopsis on national planning policy 2015-226. The proposal is presented in accordance with organizational requirements, No. 123/2010, but with that law the first time was set here on the land of national planning policies. Environmental and resource secretary should propose the proposal for 12 years. The main purpose of the policy is to establish a consistent policy, thereby providing a comprehensive view of land use based on national policies in various areas. In this way, rural areas have access to the government policy of planning in one place. It is then aimed at integrating government, state, and rural schemes with regard to transport, social, nature protection, energy efficiency, and other land use issues. There is always a national planning policy on the central areas of Iceland. Governments are expected to function in accordance with policy. This includes taking into account the design and adaptation of plans and the implementation of national planning policies within four years of its approval, when applicable. The Agency began work on proposed national planning policies in 2013 at the request of Environment and Resource Ministers. At the same time, a government advisory committee and the European Union were appointed to deal with national planning policies, which were the Organization and Ministers for counselling and consultation with the work. proposals for national planning were developed in active collaboration with local societies and their organisations, public institutions and organisations. There was also a special meeting point to the development of policies, which included representatives from rural areas and their organisations, public institutions, companies in the construction and management of infrastructure and sectoral organisations, and nature and protection. Suggested national planning was advertised by the Organization and officially introduced, as well as its release to 180 parties. It is a pleasure to report that the Organization made comments to the proposal from 73 sources with helpful and good indications that show a keen interest in this work. The Environment and Resource Minister proposed a national planning policy along with the documents and a report on the implementation of the March 12 March. at the end of the presentation time. This proposal for national planning includes four main policies: policy in an Iceland's central highland policy, a rural policy, a habitat pattern, and distribution policy based on marine and coastal planning. The course is based on the idea that for all of its subjects, a guide is given. The guide is that organized and land use contributes to sustainable development, the organization is flexible to social and environmental changes and to the quality of life of people and also support the competitiveness of the whole country and the individual parts of the country. Under each of the initiative's activities, there is one higher objective and then a goal that involves individual components or problems, such as building, protecting, energy, or transport. It is suggested that the target be followed by certain measures or means. This is a recommendation and action directed to the rural community in the construction of organizational plans and on the other hand, various tasks directed to other governments. I am now going to account for the four policies of national planning, and first there is a planning policy on the central highlands designed to replace the regional region of central Iceland in 2015 and take up the same region. The policy stresses the maintenance of the main policy of existing regional planning as well as the experience of its implementation. In addition, the available land use programmes, such as the national protection and energy use programmes, the system plan, transport programmes, and nature protection programmes, were taken into account. The chief aim of planning policies in the central area is that there will be a guard in the nature and landscapes of the central area because of the nature and importance of outdoors and that infrastructure in the central highlands will take into account its special status. The proposal suggests a number of ways or measures to support the implementation of planning policies in the middle of the country. It is important that the transport and planning authorities work on further analysis of transport costs and development options. A suggestion that land planning is therefore expected to include rural areas of the central highlands for a highway policy in a major organization in cooperation with the Vega. There is a lack of complete perspective on existing facilities and services in the central highlands. It is therefore suggested that the Organization has, in cooperation with Iceland's National Registry and rural communities whose land is infested with the highlands, the presupervising of workers and services in the highlands. This proposal works on the basis of the main concept of the central region's regional structure to maintain its vastness. As a result, the Agency, together with the EEA, is proposed to be preconceived for a regular update on a map of the size and development of events in the central highlands. As a result of increasing tourism to the country, it is very important to have an assessment of the construction of tourism workers in the highlands. It is therefore suggested that the Office of Organization, in cooperation with the Travel Office, the European Union of Iceland, and rural areas whose land is in the highland area, be informed of the need for changing emphasis on the mobilization of workers. Another main policy is a rural organization, and that's a new one. In recent years there have been considerable changes in rural land use, as well as changes in agriculture. Increased emphasis is on forestry and agriculture, along with increased knowledge and warm weather. At that time, rural tourism development has increased, as well as a general increase in outdoor activities. Thus, it is clear that in the coming years, there are challenges regarding rural planning, such as agriculture, nature protection, land healing, forestry, and tourism. In a rural policy, the organization is expected to provide a wide range of land uses, such as for farming and tourism, and a natural and landscape design. Further targets are then being developed under the provision of rural, environmental, cultural, sustainable use of agriculture, natural and environmental transport, energy generation, and the safe delivery of electrical energy in agreement with nature and environment, sustainable transport, secure telecommunication and planning with respect to natural climate change and climate change. In order to implement agrienvironmental policy in rural areas, some are suggested to provide environmental and resource services for the guidance of agrienvironmental planning and other land use policies. There is a great need for such guidance in view of the evidence that agricultural production will increase in the future, especially as a result of increasing travel to the country. It is predictable that increasing demand will depend on building windmills in rural areas. Because the use of wind power is a new subject in national planning, it calls for the level of knowledge and information on organizational approach and environmental impact. So, in cooperation with relevant organisations, it is suggested that the Agency be educated and shared information on the organization of wind efficiency. A third main policy of national planning is a policy on habitat patterns and distribution of habitats, which includes the environment, particularly urban areas, and its interaction with a nearby work area. This is a policy on the whole of the country's habitats and on the other hand, on the internal structure of urban areas and the quality of the environment. The chief aim of the policy is to develop urban and implements based on sustainable development, with emphasis on environmental quality and targeted, integrated, and integrated systems based on and transport. Further policy measures are being developed under a broad range of integrated patterns and balances in rural development, sustainable urban development, environment-based quality, competitive communities and sectoral life, sustainable transport and secure communications with the environment. Clearly, by fostering the growth and maintenance of the core core in each part of the country, a stronger foundation is laid for the wide range of services and employment in each region, providing the modern quality of life that we demand. Among the proposed projects, the development of rural planning and the implementation of national parish projects will be defined as core core cores in each part of the country and their service area. The Agency is also expected to perform a joint analysis of the workaments and services of the largest urban ports and scoring of active urban areas in cooperation with the Office, Internal Affairs, the Vega, the Union of Iceland, and the Community Association in the capital area. I'll get to the last main course, but there's an organization in marine and coastal areas. This is a new subject on the land. A map has a complete perspective on marine and coastal activities on the land and has therefore been called on a complete organization for them. The implementation of marine and coastal systems here is accompanied by similar trends in the countries around us, but countries have been implementing such planning over the past few years to promote sustainable use and address the interests of marine and coastal initiatives. The extent and diversity of work in Iceland's seas and coastal areas has increased in recent years. Apart from traditional activities and practices, such as fishing, transport, chemical contact, shipping, drainage, and sea cables, other activities, such as fish farming, shelling, travel - related activities, and energy research have been involved. There is a limited perspective on the current marine and coastal activities on the land and its scope, but the primary analysis of the use and protection of marine and coastal areas in Iceland was implemented at a Organic Organization in 2012. A complete collection of information on marine and coastal activities and areas, which have been protected or used in some way, is one of the foundations of the planning in marine and coastal areas and will support the sustainable use of their resources. Further policy measures on marine and coastal planning will then be needed to address the overall use and protection of such areas as fish, marine water, energy, water management, chemical input and the protection of vulnerable areas. The Environment and Resource Minister has appointed in 2014 a task force to develop the legislation on marine and coastal planning but the group is designed to shape the management of marine and coastal organisations, key management tools for the development of the structure and their geographical limitation. Based on the fact that the marine and coastal planning bill will be submitted to the 2015 fall Summit. The current marine and coastal policies take into account that the design of marine and coastal areas is still being developed. A respectable president. Here I have suggested a basic point of this proposal for interpretation and suggest that the proposal be followed by a previous session. Pointed to why. Environment and Transport Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-92.u7	A respectable president. It's good to have this case out. Since then, the main purpose of national planning is, as stated in Article 10. Organizational law, developing a coordinated land use policy based on government policy in various areas. Thus, rural communities can have access to what governments, or government, are thinking. This is also to harmonize with what your societies are doing to one another, but in their dealings with the State. There's a lot of good things going on here, and then the committee's going to cover some things better. I'd like to take an example of a text I like, it's on page. 8 of self-sustaining urban organization. It is being published and suggested that the government's policy be developed to promote sustainable development of urban areas through densely populated, reorganization of new areas, and development of closer society. It will also be discussed in more detail. What interests me about these aspects is that this is in a very good way with what has been done in Reykjavíkurburg, the policies that have taken place there, and with the ideologies responsible for the work in organizational matters that have taken place there. If we look at the comments to the bill, on sustainable urban planning, the emphasis is on mixing employment, connecting it to an apartment settlement, cutting distances from everyday activities, thus reducing the expense of society through infrastructure, such as holes and host systems, creating conditions for public transport and other traveling options. This is really good for me, and I'm happy about it, and maybe not least because it's in line with the policy that has taken place in the city and in the present part of it. I'd also like to mention that I'm glad to be involved -- it's happened before in another form, but it doesn't matter, it's coming out here - the part that's turning towards marine and coastal systems. This has sorely been missing, an island that has as much economic history as we have. We've lost sync between decision-making of different parties when it comes to marine and coastal areas. This is something that matters, and I know it needs to be examined by the committee. There has been considerable expertise in this field, e.g. in Iceland's University institution, Iceland. This has been a significant subject. I'm glad it's in here and we're going to talk about the change in how we approach an organization in the seas and coastal areas. Then I'd like to find out what really matters to me, and it's a media organization. In this proposal for a resolution on national planning policy, there is a discussion on an organization in the central highlands of Iceland. Chapter 1 says that the environment and landscapes of the central highlands must be protected because of the nature and importance of outdoors and the construction of infrastructure in the central highlands must be taken into account. This will be discussed in a few things that all of us are fine. I'd like to mention here that, anyway, I think, and we in the United States, can go further on this. We concluded, and much work has been done on these issues as regards the topic of business in the United Nations. At our last national meeting, held at the end of March of this year, there were special and fairly detailed conclusions on national parks in the middle of the country, and I think we must aim to have national parks in the central highlands. It says that men wanted to line up in the middle of the country, and I believe we should take the step all the way and actually work us in the direction that there will be a national park. We declared support for the proposal of a nature protection organization to set up a national park in the middle of the country because national parks can ensure the preservation of the high nature prices of the central highlands and ensure sustainable nature will become a sustainable source of employment, profit and experience for all. We want the area of the central highlands to become all one planning and management brain with members of rural society and other environmental authorities and representatives of the community of the common people. Then we also want a protection programme for the entire population and the highlands to be defined by the WHO classification, the need for protection, the costs for outdoors, and the other means of transport and other uses that are compatible with nature protection and do not interfere with the national park's activities. It also counts that further construction of the fortress and energy transport, which do not function as the national park's protection, will be excluded and that transport in the region is primarily aimed at the protection of the park and the needs of its visitors. There will also be manpowers through tourism, other agriculture, and research services limited to the edge of the park, as we approach the case here. Well, it seems to me, considering what's suggested here, that it might be a normal step to go all the way along. A respectable president. I'd like to finally say that there's a lot of policy and a lot of good in it. This will be discussed in the Environmental and Transport Committee. However, I would like to mention that I'm concerned that when we here at the council agree to a matter-changing decision and we feel that the execution of the Agency is a minor offense. We're a little burnt because the government is in the hands of the Allied Council on a framework plan where the council has put on the great effort to go through and agree to a set set of benefits in the protection and innovation groups. Yet, it is now two years after its approval, and there is no movement on it that puts money on to carry out the protection and peace - telling of the areas of the reservation. It's not working. It does not mean merely looking at the novelty because people are interested in him and are striving to get him in the process. You have to look at the reservation in the same way. This does not mean that we here at the council agree to a fancy policy and a concierge that pays attention to important things, and then we follow the national interests or ministers of what is being carried out. A balance is needed. If we are to accept a proposal for national policy, I hope it will be to support the highest level. Environment and resource minister in the process of peace-enforcement the areas of the Preservation System; there must also be some confidence in the existence of the Framework Programme. I'm not going to have a discussion about how I feel about the changes in the conference frame plan. Rather, I'm just going to look at what is discussed here and then the Guardian Party. We've gotten a little burnt of this, and I really hope that with this, it gets the best. As the council decided, a minister resorts to begin working with the Guardian Party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-92.u8	Madam President. I'm glad this matter has been passed. I have now described it a few times during the winter council in relation to other matters that exist - I may come to that better. Here's a lot of work and ambition, I think, and a pleasure to be once before. The current environmental minister immediately decided in the fall of 2013 to follow the work that began in the last terms of the law and the 10th sentence. that national planning should be carried out, along with the proposal made by the local Environment Minister, but that it did not succeed before elections in 2013. On the contrary, I'm very comfortable with the presentation of this case. The following is a beautiful way to discuss the subject, that is a beautiful way to say everything and well meant, and no one doubts about it. Perhaps the question is more about what is involved, what is the real effect of this on the implementation of a projection point of protection and peace, and especially in the middle of the country without me minimizing the factors involved in the proposal. This, of course, is suggested in chapter 1, that all planning and land use should contribute to sustainable development and also that this is flexible and contributes to social and environmental persistence. - I'm only sliding about this word persistence, but I think I know it's a translation of the English word "resilience." Maybe it's an accepted translation, but I still had something in me to use this word on this phenomenon, but I think I understand what's going on. An organization in Iceland's central highlands, so I'm mainly doing that, says the president's permission: ▪ The facility will be a guard of nature and land on the central highlands because of the nature value and importance of outdoors. The structure of infrastructure in the central highlands takes into account its unique position. It's all right. And the first one, about the breadth and nature quality of life, says: ▪ The maintenance will be the unique and natural quality of the central highlands, with emphasis on protecting the vast areas of the country, landscapes, important ecosystems and vegetation, and valuable cultural mines. It is followed further, and, as a rule naturally, as policy measures by the State, it is being put into the hands of rural communities whose land is in the middle of the highlands or who have the organizational authority under the limits of law and then this policy sets, to implement it and take into account in their plans, although they are then in position to do so. This immediately raises questions, such as the position of a system strategy to the structure of the rural society and to this issue. What's the situation? If the representatives of a local community with land in the central area say: We believe that, according to a agreed national planning policy, we will not allow such an mobilization in the area that falls to the central or global region, we will just come up with some system plan and say, "Hey, yes, I'm sure, because it's the one that controls, not the company's decision. For one thing, I had described whether this proposal was not coming, and I believe that it is a normal order of care that it is done first and that the Allied Council is going to do well in the stitches of the standards set here, the policy set here, because it is supposed to be the clearance point of all other parties, as I would like to approach it. And I believe it is also the spirit of the law. First it is designed, and then the rural communities take it into account, and then, depending on the events, a system plan is carried out on it as well. It says: ▪ In the development of rural communities, the construction and traffic of the highlands will be limited to the scope of other characteristics and natural quality of the highlands as little as possible. That's where I stopped. I think something's missing that it's ambitious enough. I ask: If the wording had not been further used, it is necessary - and that impairment is always kept to a minimum, so that one really needs to reason on why construction is necessary, even though it may result in impairment in nonverbal areas and territory? I think there's only strong words to deal with, and I think that the burden of evidence should be slightly shifted to more than there is done. It's just as if there's some scale -- which is at least 20%, 30% or what, it's just getting closer to someone, the point of view is that it's not supposed to be affected. We want to protect it as much as possible. If there is a situation where there is a great need for public interest to require that the structure or construction still be determined as well and that it needs to be demonstrated that the disorder is in the least possible cause. Similarly, the point being followed in Figure 1.1 is the key to this matter, in my opinion: ▪ In areas that are classified as vast, there will be room for limited activities, such as tracks, road trails, walking trails, and riding. More extensive mobilization will be directed to places that do not reduce the size of the central highlands. I couldn't agree with that. This is in itself very much in the spirit of the main approach in the highland regional organization that has been used up to this point. This is better addressed in section 1.2.1, for example, in the case of tourism, which says: ▪ The construction of tourist facilities will be limited in the middle of the highlands and main focus on building on the perimeters of the highlands and in some limited areas on the main highlands. Space centers in the highland bridge outside the highland area - such as being on the highland bridge or outside the middle of the country because of not wanting to do major acts on top of the highlands, hotels, or other similar activities. Yes, high - level centers exist, have several halls and mountain halls, and have special features. I think it's a perfect approach. There's no need for it. But it seems to me, too, if we're going to live up to this wording that we must ask ourselves, " Does it really need to talk further about high-voltage lines and the elevated road across a explosion field? ' It's not a limited mechanic, that's far from it. 240 kilowatt, huge, high-sized pens, ain't it? All I have to do is be practitioners and ask, " What do those words mean? ' What are they in decision - making, depending on incident about these things into the future? Does this word mean that we are not going to allow anything but limited human activities, such as tracks, highway trails, are not a substitute, that is quite clear, according to the Icelandic language that I know - and a vastly larger operation will be directed toward places that do not reduce the size of the highlands, which would be built up fastways and massively high - tension lines. Is there more to witness? So, my fellows, why don't we agree first to this proposal, wait the other, go to Landsnet and ask them to follow the good example of the Vega program, which has ceased to be an environmental assessment in the way of an explosion? It has been put aside, for she never had strong reason to spend money on things that are not even on her schedule for the next 15 to 20 years. Unfortunately, time does not allow me to review more things as I would like to. Agricultural planning - many very good things for agriculture use, tourism, and the environment. It is similar with other factors, such as housing patterns and marine and coastal planning. I think there's a very good foundation in this suggestion to work this way to the end but, of course, various things that are a reason to go better into.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-92.u9	A respectable president. I agree with the statement that the proposal for a national convention arrangement has been proposed in 2015 to the year 2026. It affords us the opportunity to shape an overall outlook on organizational matters and, above all, to coordinate the development of the so - called organizational duties, so rural society is obliged to look to this national structure. That is why I would especially like to draw attention to the report on the matter by the synonym on the effectiveness of national planning policies on rural development. It says: A policy plan is expected to be primarily implemented in rural planning programmes. According to organizational legislation, rural areas should be based on national planning policies in the preparation of a major and regional structure, taking into account new planning plans or changes in them. The role of national planning is also stated here: ▪ In a paper with a bill that became organizational, No. 123/2010, while highlighting the custody of rural planning organizations, it is also a recognized need for the State to provide a complete vision of organizational matters that will be proposed in the planning of rural society. The design of national planning policy is implemented to provide the area for the State's administration to provide organizational policies and guidelines for the development of rural development. It is evident now that this is taking on the authority created by rural society regarding the organization. Now they have been told from this platform that the organizational authority is sacred. I think most people would agree that it is not, and we can see this bill, of course, the state that lays the lines in consideration of the organizational obligations of the rural community. You see, people have misunderstood 78th. The constitution. It discusses the self - determination rights of a community and accepts it unless it is legally established. This constitution simply tells us that it is the lawgiver who determines what is in custody of a community and what is in custody of the State. Here they were called these special national parks, which, in a sense, is a limitation of the organizational authority in these areas of rural society. The reason why I mention this is because the city airport in Reykjavík has been a big part of the discussion. It is hard to believe that the arrangement would be given under the General Assembly. I have pointed out that it is reasonable for everyone to believe that the Cheflavor airport is organized by the state and has not heard anyone recommend that there be power for the rural areas of Smokeynes. I have also noted that Sweden, regarding nationally important transport edifices, was simply taken from the rural areas and brought under the organizational authority of the State. How important it is that we discern how 78 C.E. works! The constitution actually works. I hope there won't be a disagreement about it, when we agree with this national planning policy, that it will somehow come to limit the organizational activities of rural society. I think everyone agrees on the right need, i.e. that the state is making a powerful national organization, which is certainly on the move, but we are not faced with the fact that the rural communities, especially those living on the central highlands, can go out and south with their organization, there is no harmony and that we cannot follow what governments at any given time want to pursue, especially in terms of nature protection. The present government and current environmental minister have done very well in this regard. Of course, it can be done better, and this council proposal is very effective. I'm not gonna have any more words on this. I'm glad that the case has begun. We will receive it for the treatment of an environment and transport committee, and we hope that it will be cleared quickly and safely and later elected at this spring council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-04-20-92.u10	A respectable president. I thank the wise ones and take my heart for the last words. paritaprevir The debt of Höskuldur, the son of Þórhallsson, before that the matter is quickly reached, will be there in the good hands of members of the committee, and the work will be done well. I believe it will be. I thank the senators for their office, but this is the first time here at the General Assembly is recommended for landscape policy. It is true, too, that such a policy has previously been developed, although this has a slightly altered format, the first time we recommend such a remarkable piece of paper that has an overall view of the land and has four main objectives and how to process it. But, of course, as noted in the case of humans, one thing and another that a person both rejoices but may also want to understand. This is so far from my mind that I didn't think of anything else. However, I found special pleasure in words of urgency. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfurfu's son, for this also stood in the one that says here. That old word, tenant, is a beautiful Icelandic word and stands for a certain resistance; someone is persistent and tenacious, not yielding. But this can also have a more extensive picture. It's fun if old words can get new dimensions and meanings in the English language. It makes Iceland rich, and there is no use for it at this time. I was especially fond of the senator's ability to handle this. They were also correct in saying that there has been a great deal of work in this Senate resolution, huge work. There have been countless meetings, not just in one place, but in every country. They were even asked to rise up to see how the land appears organized and to sort it down. The pictures are available in a brochure that can be obtained. So it is a truly satisfying and enjoyable work and an enormous amount of work to be done. I would like to look up page 5 of this magazine. 25 and on page 20. 27. For example, it deals with tourism in terms of nature, environment, and telecommunication centers. Now there are four of them, and the number of them is spoken of as staying. It is defined as how these four perimeter centers can build up and which service can be offered. We can't overlook the fact that with increasing tourist flows, there will be opportunities and services to be available, but these peripheral centers may offer lodging in hotels, hosting homes, or shelters. Then come high - level centers, listed nine of which are listed. Then we come to the cabins, they're one of 33 that there's nominated, and then we're talking about mountain seals. It says, by permission of the President: To determine the location of new mountain seals, it should be taken into account that the distance between perimeter and highland centres, chalets and mountain halls is equal to the right day route for hikers. That is how the hikers, mentioned only here, have entered. I was beginning to see it that way yesterday when I was wondering if there are no barracks areas where there are no bowls or seals, if there is a dry toilet in remote places. I don't have to have many words about this. I hope that the work on the Committee will be effective and that these will be agreed on without any major changes. It's my hope, because it's been over, so I hope the senators don't have much to change. I thank you again for your efforts, and I hope to have a good cooperation in national planning.
