ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u1	President wants to draw attention to him. All council members assume that this year the United Nations is celebrating its 70th anniversary. Toward the end of September of the month, national leaders assembled at New York headquarters to accept new sustainable development goals that will replace the old age's targets. At the beginning of the September of the month, the president of the Generals attended the 4th World Conference of the President, held at the United Nations headquarters. The program included discussions about the role of the Assembly in achieving the new development goals. During discussions with the secretary - general of the United Nations, it was noted that the role of the legislatures is more important than that of the European Parliament. As a result of this milestone, tomorrow's members will be invited to special presentations on the United Nations, focusing on the new goal of development.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u2	There have been two letters from the Ministry of Health requesting deadlines to give written answers to the application. 165, for special care for children, from Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir, and for the petition. 124, for paediatric patients with severe developmental and mental disorders, also from Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u3	There are: health ministers, social and housing minister and local minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u4	Mr. President. It is safe to say that civil strife marked the life span of this government, both in the general labour market and also in the public. When I crossed the East Field this morning, there were a number of people here protesting from the SFR, from the Hospital Department, and from the National Association of Officers. I'd like to direct my inquiry to the highest level. Minister of the state, secretary of police. Policemen cannot strike, yet they protest. There is now and has long been the need to strengthen the law enforcement force in the country. It is obvious to the public that the government's operation in all areas, including the police, has been severely confined, but at the same time there is an ever - increasing task. There is one thing that is, of course, a large number of tourists in this country. This need has been identified by the government, including the government. in an interpolitian committee that was involved in an analysis of police financial needs. She suggested a set of priorities and actions for that assignment. Despite that cross - political stand, we are faced with the situation that the State and the National Association of Police Officers fail to meet. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister for her evaluation of this situation. Another conflict between the government and government officials, those who are involved in social projects for the public. How can the highest. A minister worked hard to solve this knot, though, of course, the agreement is at hand. Secretary of finance, which isn't here today? For the public in the country, it is important that law enforcement status be ensured, that we do not have to look at these conflicts that, of course, affect the whole community and the entire population in the country. How can the highest. A minister saw to it that these matters resolve as soon as possible so that the impact on public safety and interests in this country will be remembered? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u5	A respectable president. There is no need to argue with law enforcement in this country. I think we can agree on that, and I've been speaking very clearly about the need to promote law enforcement in this country. It may be said that such activities require much more than that. I think I've said many times in this chair that we have to work there, both because of the hardships we went through, and the police, of course, felt like everyone else, and because of the projects that have gone up with the police, which they need to do. Of course, our crime at the State Department is the basis for the operation of the police. Of course, there we have been fighting for more money. We have progressed, although, of course, I would like to see us push faster, yet we are making progress. We need to do better both when we look forward to police matters and for the growing number of policemen where there is no need. A 2013 report was conducted that covered various matters involving law enforcement in the country. There, representatives of all councils, including the U.S. A member of my council. So I think the policy and the will are in place. We can debate how fast or how slow things are, but they can be that way sometimes, and all you have to do is face up to things that can take time. It matters that a gypsy bag is there. But on my part, there is no need to question my support and my willingness to improve the situation of law enforcement. So I have declared many times, both here in this chair and also discussed it with the police on the fact that it is clear on my part. Then I feel that it matters to the public the police and also the possibility of a police officer's study, to correct police school. It's all part of improving the police's public equipment. Of course, it can help there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u6	Mr. President. One day they said, "Wild is all it takes." The council's will is at hand. The highest report. A minister quoted from all classes, or representatives of all members of the council, as I quoted, but this report has been followed only to a small extent and is not followed in the budget of the year. This shows that the will is not enough, it will not go far enough. Of course, we must insist that we adhere to that solidarity. As for our terms, I'd like to say we feel a lot of anger in the ranks of police officers. This is especially because their potential for protesting their terms is very limited. They don't have a strike rights. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers in view of the fact that there is a bill for three members, and even more, that police are given a strike rights like other classes: Supporting the Supreme Court. Minister? If not, then, is there not an even greater need to meet the demands of police officers so that there will be stability and security for the public? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u7	V.E.G. President. So the budget is now that the federal Ministry of Internal Affairs has been installed at 0.5 billion more in addition to law enforcement. Certainly it's a success. The financial bill is natural in the process at the General Assembly, and of course, it is the General who determines the final budget for projects, and under that role, I know. In terms of police strike rights, it is my opinion that police work is in such a way that it is better to have a contract guaranteed than to get it back to the strike. It means natural - and I'll be the first to admit and understand - that we have to deal with them. I think it's absolutely certain that if you don't have the strike right, it needs to be handled in collective agreements. I think it's very important that it be done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u8	A respectable president. At midnight 5,500 government workers began their strike operations. It has tremendous influence, as shown in the case of both. paritaprevir Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter here before, when it comes, e.g. that the police because they don't have the right to strike, and they don't sit at the same table. Hence, police officers are not on strike, but they are here and agree with those who started their operations today. For the third time in just less than a year, serious health - care procedures are refused. We see hundreds of individuals who have quit working within the medical system, within the hospital - for the third time in a year. Hospitals are greatly affected, and this has a profound impact on health facilities, and this has a profound impact on the services of local patients. At the same time, this government is cutting down contributions to the hospital in the existing budget. At the same time, this government is reducing taxes to the highest payings and returning income from hunting costs. This is not a message to those who work in the public sector and are the lowest paid groups, but it is those who protest their votes today. This government has not listened to these groups, and that is why we are in this position. The list of waitings has not been established because of previous failures within the medical system, and now there is another crash. What has a health - care minister done to protect and protect health care professionals? What has a health secretary done to defend the current medical system and because the government has not listened to the legitimate demands of these groups for improvement?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u9	A respectable president. In this case, claiming that contributions to the management of the Land Hospital are impaired that the real value of budgeting for 2016 is not true. On the other hand, if the equipment company is laid on the business plans, I know how to approach that view. A senator puts it this way, but contributions to the county hospital increase to an absolute value of about 300 million. K. between. If we look forward to the hospital at the last two budgets, financial years, I think we can totally agree on that, me and the other. A senator, that in view of the scope of health care, the National Hospital can enjoy its share as well as other health care providers in the country. In the past, I have repeated in my discussion that there are more medical institutions in this country than does the Landspians alone. I'll join and share with you. In view of the number of strikes, members of the body are concerned about the health status of health professionals in the country. year. It is true that this is the third round of events. This place sucks. I've been doing a number of things out of this discourse for the past few years. I have encouraged senators and governments as well as unions to try to get together and create some natural reconciliation. I don't know better than that the government, among other things, went on to recommend the government's opposition to cut down certain knots in a seaming dispute that the government has had with individual working groups. Sadly, that did not work out. [[Up front.]] Well, it's the right of the unions to call for dressbacks, and he must be respected. - But because there was a shooting in and special references to specialists, I'd be happy to have a special discussion at the momenthv. þm. Skarphéðinn's love for that matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u10	A respectable president. There is no need for a special discussion about this. You can only turn to the budget bill and see that contributions made to specialists increase 32.6% while you see a real drop in the hospital by 90 million. K. You can have some practice sessions here, saying: Yes, you can reach that conclusion if you take the money away. Has the government already decided that enough equipment has been purchased at the Land Hospital? That's what we have from the health officer in the country. Of course, this is not an acceptable presentation. V.E.G. A minister is the head of health care in this country, and on his watch, three serious strikes are affected, with the consequences we have seen in the health system. In addition, all policy measures are repeated within the government regarding vision of the construction of a new hospital. Thus, there are 1,600 who serve at the Hospital and others in the medical system in other parts of the world during today's strike. This is because they have not been listened to people who are on a shameful low wage that the state will give them at the same time they take the highest income in the system and then raise them by 33%.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u11	A respectable president. Then I repeat my wish to the point. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir and Össur Skarphéðinsson to take a special discussion about specialist physicians, since this is a whole thing turned upside down. [[Up front.]] The share of the last left control increased from 29% to 40% was reduced from 40% to 30%, therefore this cost is added. [[Up front.]] It also claims that my policy in the construction plans of the new hospital is upset. That's wrong. [[The point is: What does the prime minister say?]] That's wrong. The course lies in the approved Generals. Senator. It is very simple for people to learn about it. It remains to be won. [[Up front.]] There's an offer coming up at the hospital building right now in a few days. I expect that if they stay within reasonable limits, we will start doing so in November, etc. It is a long way from being corrected too, and it is a false claim that enough equipment has been purchased at the Land Hospital. [[The president calls.]] I marvel at such a statement that this is the case with the words of men.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u12	A respectable president and distinguished guests. I want to come up here and ask the highest. House and social security minister on so-called housing returns. Since that government began, much has been promised in a well - established way. Many have set off to make plans, quite a few waiting for these bills. They've been promised here in a hurry. Farmers have started working on policy development and have made a big effort to cope with the urgent housing problems that have a major impact on the common population and on the minds of those who have been fighting in the last few years. I would sincerely like to hear from the highest. Minister: What causes these bills to remain unproved? It's a powerful influence. These bills included used to improve labour contracts in spring. I ask: Should these bills be reused as some kind of device in the sleazy debates we see in the East and beyond? Should this trumpet be used forever, and then nothing ever appears? Communicating with rural society, with the public, and with us here, has somehow become extremely strange around these bills, but they are extremely important. I ask for clear answers as to when these bills will appear. Tells you the highest. Ministers that they can become real fools for those in a fight?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u13	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the inquiry. From the end of May onward, the council has already entered issues related to government declaration. In addition to proposals to make changes in the taxation of rent, certain funds are expected in the budget. Since then, we have been in a very great and close partnership with the members who came to the Convention of these bills, as well as with the comments that we have been considering in the history of the three prime metastases that appeared here in spring and are being tried to respond in the best way. It's on the final meters, and I expect it to be clear in the near future when the bills will appear here at the council. It's a big case, as shown in a case. A senator, and as a result, I have given tremendous emphasis on meeting these factors in terms of the key issues involved, the labor movement, the pro-employers, the rural communities; these issues are now being met in the Ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u14	A respectable president. I appreciate those answers. I'd like to get a little clearer from the highest. Ministers, to the extent of stalling, have taken the most of the time. What is it about this person that she mentions, the number of people who have caused or extended the situation? What do these parties believe in the initials being submitted? I might want her to react to the situation that looks at us in the fight that's coming up again, and if she thinks that this input could make a difference there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u15	A respectable president. The proclamation of the government has been established since May 28 of that year. was our commitment to the entire labour market organization. We were commitmenting to ASI, BSRB, BHM, and the European Union of Iceland to take certain measures. So there is a promise. There's nothing to wave it over, and we'll keep the promises we made. It is very complicated, however, to create a new social teneting system, as shown in this declaration. Those who come to have a very clear view of how things are going to work out, but that vision does not always match the vision of others, as we know when they have discussions. We're trying to get together on this. It's my very clear will that we get together, because it's simply such a big case, as shown in the case of the day. For all to accept the arrangement, a senator, the wording of sentences must be in place. [[The president calls.]] As a result, this will also make it easier for the council to work when it is established that such large parties agree on the points.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u16	A respectable president. In recent years doctors and nurses have gone into a strike. In the past 5,500 employees have taken down jobs, which includes police officers. It is a serious matter that for the second time in less than a year, we have a mass strike of very important employees. The 5,500 people mentioned earlier do not even consider the police officers who have actually canceled their jobs. You see, police officials do not have the right to strike, and even if the work of policemen has to be guaranteed by contracts, it has just not been the case. There has been no match for the police and the modest demands, in my opinion, when they have asked for an improvement in terms. We now face the fact that police officers have quit their jobs. They're breaking a law that's more of an ironic in itself. We have failed to meet this class. This class has a fundamental role in Icelandic society, in its security and in that the laws we want our country to live on guard against people. Policemen are so tired of this stress. It seems that nothing is sufficient for me to think that their moderate demands will be taken seriously. That's why I want to ask the highest question. Minister of the local state how she will use herself to meet the demands of police officers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u17	V.E.G. President. There is no question about it. There is a great need for us to make a deal with the police. As the Senate knows, disputes with police officers have lasted for some time, and they have become impatient, as are so many other classes. Of course, under the custody of the State Department, the law in this country and the peace of the country, the work of police officers, and the general execution of law enforcement in the country. As I told you earlier in answer to a previous inquiry, there are natural details in the setting of the police force that we can do better. We have taken steps in this direction, though the mess is great, and it is certainly great in my case too. Of course, we must play out what we have and try to do the best. I am a optimistic person of nature, and I hope, of course, that treats the police and police officers at the first, I am sure of that, and I know that on account of the State, of course, there is a very rich desire for such agreements to be achieved. I'm not going to talk about it here that police are going to start using some anti-Species thing, I don't believe it, I don't think it's gonna be that way. The law has the fundamental role of upholding law and order in the country. She's playing a huge role in the security of the country. I think the work of police officers will still be very late to appreciate. But here we have a very serious position in the country, and we in the State Department will, of course, do what we can to help out, we've discussed it with the police, but as the situation exists, we're primarily looking at a fight. They need to be resolved, like other conflicts. To that end, of course, both of us need to arrive at the table with a sincere desire to make a decision. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u18	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister of state for an informative answer. I'm particularly glad that there seems to be a cohesion and agreement with the government to meet the modest demands of police officers and hopefully other classes alike. I don't quite see what it takes. Where exactly does the knife stand in the cow? Why is it necessary to go so far to the highest level? Government seems to want to hear? Why does it always have to go so far?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u19	V.E.G. President. Aggressive workforce in Iceland is not new and has been following us in Iceland for decades. There seems to be also a bit, so there is nothing new about the debate going into major ditches before we can get out of them again. We've recently faced an enormous struggle. I'd like to mean, though, that the government has stretched as far as it could have done in the currently acquired contracts. Now we see the end of a contract with the rest of us. Officers are part of that negotiation. The whole thing needs to be viewed completely. I think the government is trying to do that. I believe that it will also be because our common limit must be that we will be able to create the hooks in the labour market that there is a benefit for the labour market itself and society as a whole, so that we can achieve the calm we need to continue building the economy in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u20	A respectable president. Today's high - speed connections are as necessary as the telephone was before and transport between people in general. But there is much need for people in the country to sit at the same level as others. This is a serious issue in which new opportunities for the region will be considered in the distances of various types and forms of telecommunications, but they will be of little help if the material is not available. This is an enormous interest in the scattered settlements of the country and in the Continental Segregation Act, of the emergency operations of rural areas, that is what the Minister of Ministers proposed for building a high - speed connection strategy throughout the country and the optic cables. A year ago, the proposals of the government classes were presented in ways to achieve a high - speed network throughout the country. They were published in a report entitled Iceland Lightlined, a national campaign in the construction of telecommunications. This is an extension of the government's objective in regional affairs. The report noted that access to high - speed exchange connections is basic services that should be available to all regardless of their location. The goal was set for this to be realized by 2020. Total cost to the project is estimated to be 5 billion to 7 billion. and to pay for the project, the costs of the connection were to be balanced between the three parties, Mila, which should be paid 250 yous. K. For every global nerve, the user who was supposed to pay the same amount, and 250 you. K. you are to come from the so - called Fund of Public Service, which is in the possession of the post and telecommunications agency. Since then, little has been heard of this, and many are waiting throughout the country for reforms. I'm asking the highest. Interior Minister: What is the position of this project, and what will be the direct contribution of the State to the General Service next year, 2016?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u21	V.E.G. President. Hv. A senator here makes an important point. It is true that the government's clear policy is to engage in a major campaign of communication. And I can agree with that as long as possible. One U.S. senator says that safe communication of the country is one of the most important things to go on and settle the country and increase the freedom of the people to do business anywhere. The government is now handling any report. A senator turned aside and is working on this assignment. In this matter, there is a natural way to finish living on this subject. It is not easy to do, but policy is in place and the will is clear. We have also wondered whether this communication structure can be used to further accommodate a cohesive effect, especially in the development of resources, i.e. where this project can be fixed when a business company is laying its ground lines and such items, it would have a positive effect on the results of this project in view of the wealth of the state fund. They're now in progress. It is not possible at this point to determine the exact outcome, although reports have provided specific scenarios for solving these issues. There are other factors to consider in this regard. It is now, and we have been working for it at the State Department in close cooperation with those who arrive at the report in order to proceed with this matter. But I retort that work depends on the policy and will that it manifests.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u22	Thank you very much. Minister of the Interior for the answer. I know the plans are good and the policy has been set, but there seems to be so little going on. There are a lot of people who are worried about that in many parts of the country. It seems to me that men have been discussing at least 1 ten years as to what is necessary for this project. Many feel that the wait has gone a long time, since this has begun to block national activities, since Internet connections are not good enough. People talk about being unable to participate in telecommunications, etc. You have to put more energy on this project. I urge the Minister of the Interior to do all the good things in it, for I know it has good intentions. People in the rural area need to start to feel that they are part of the information revolution and are able to take advantage of its opportunities.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u23	A respectable president. It may now be that even if it is felt that nothing is happening, things are happening. Things just need to work. Some things just have to happen behind a desk and between people, and then the result comes and can be discussed. I do not believe that it is always better to talk about what is being done while it is in the process it is. I just reiterate what I said before that these policies are being worked out, which is only one year old, as it appears here. It's not a long time, though I'm well aware that men have been calling for it for a very long time. It's a project that's quite ambitious. That's how we want to do it. I don't think there's something we need to argue about here between classes. It's just something we want to do together. We are doing what we can to make it as useful as possible so that it serves the interests and the things we are going to meet and so does the financial resources that the government fund puts into it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u24	Mr. President. I want to thank you in the beginning. Social and housing minister for responding to my request for special discussion on the affairs of the disabled. Now there is some experience in the transfer of the party from state to country, and there may be a long delay in arguing whether preparation has been sufficient and how it was conducted. But we found it well on a meeting in the West Coast last autumn or about a year ago, and the members of the West Country had some concerns about the survival of the tribe. When they were discussed, many people, including members of the European Union, wanted not to make such a big difference. But now it's about 300 million. K. Based on data submitted to the challenge party's operation, the North-West District is at hand. Congress members of the district of this team reached a special week. Of these, the WombE District of the West, the graffiti of the West, has a group of about 100 million, all of whom see that a small area can hardly survive. There is no doubt much to be said about that. In the beginning, I can mention that the changes in law on the disabled have undoubtedly changed the picture. Then I refer to the article of the law that deals with rights for service, which is much more detailed in a new version of the law than was in the previous law, and to my mind, it became clear that a significantly greater duty was laid upon rural society with new legislation than was previously valid. Therefore, it is one of the questions that you should consider in this discussion and in preparation for the move, whether there is an explanation for these factors. But my words are not to be understood in that I criticize more detailed regulations and rights for those who set up their rights in those regulations. We all want to do what is right in that and basic in the discussion that I'm opening here is about strengthening the principles and standing with the people involved. The members of Parliament who work in the regional districts are spokesmen of many different settlements and circumstances. Transports and distances are a major factor in the expense of the group's affairs. Because of the minimum number of inhabitants in areas that run the party, you may ask, " How were their effects handled in negotiations and preparations and in the emphasis on the distribution of funds to the seminary? ' Sadly, these same settlements also involve many of the sad consequences of having a small leftover, which means lower donations. Of course, there is no discount on the fact that the service to individuals is high. Thus, few people and ill communities face serious challenges when individuals, for example, get into adulthood and make contributions to them. According to the report from a consulting firm for the Based Group of the West, in general most areas in the country seem to have a record of about 10◯13% in the course of the seminary. On the West alone, this thing's about 40%. The report tells the advisory company she worked that no 40% of the staff can be explained to the case by just saying that the situation is adverse. It does point to a number of practical ways, but they do not cover the gap long enough. Although I'm making Weststjörður here as a talker, the views here are so much more common. I have not seen such a detailed assessment of this experience with the rest of the group, although there is no doubt it exists. However, there is a big difference in size-separated areas. Let us not forget, too, that in many cases, people have just taken up and moved to another area to secure a better ministry. However, the change we discuss here gave many new opportunities to stay in the home, although circumstances were in such a way that they had to use services to individuals in this area. No doubt you can also think of an example of the fact that when the ministry is done more in close proximity to people, moving from state to country, individuals arrive at their rights to a greater degree than previously known. But such a fact only tells us that preparation and assessment of the service may have been inadequate. A respectable president. We don't turn the clock back. No doubt we will not discuss turning to the former arrangement. However, it is clear that many urbanisations and communities are now discussing returning the case. The cost of serving the people does not go away. We are not going to step back and reduce our ministry. I want to be clear about that when I say that I understand the views of my colleagues, and I want us to respond to the pleas they have directed to the government. So I want to pray to the highest. Department of Social Affairs to address the following topics: How does the minister of experience evaluate the transfer of the tribe from state to country? How do ministers respond to local requirements for higher donations? How do ministers react to the fact that rural areas in the West have already agreed to look for a return? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u25	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for asking for a discussion on the affairs of disabled people. I think the local government in all the votes has used the opportunity to discuss this big and important group of subjects during the campaign week. So I'll review these questions as reason. A senator then directed to me: Has government increased the demands of rural society after they accepted a category of compromises on the right to the service law? If so, if what is required, and with what cost? What is the experience of moving? What is the situation? Are we having discussions? What is the lesson for this move? Do we believe that preparation has been satisfactory? I haven't had a report on the reassessment of the transfer yet, but I have some background information on the content of the report. It seems to show that professional and administrative goals of the transfer have basically followed. In fact, their communities have served with disabled people with responsibility and professional responsibilities. But when we look at the financial status of the group, i.e. If we watch the overall overview of the period, it seems that, in principle, rural society has got a financial frame to do the work. This does not, however, tell the entire history of the natural financial situation in 2014. Specific changes were made in the share-of-company space of the rural population following the results of a so-called SIS assessment of the individual's needs for service. As we look across the country in 2014, it is seen that although the income of new farms has increased substantially in rural areas, expenses have increased even more. When you look at the switch in percent, not in dollars, it seems that the increase in expenses is the most due to a greater relief than the least of day - to - day services and media projects. Then there are larger groups, such as farms, that are not considered to be the same in percent. The proposed final response is not yet to be made, but it must be available within the next few weeks in connection with the budget. The work has focused on isolateing factors that need to be considered directly between the state and the local community. What needs to be considered in particular, and it is quite clear that there has been no sufficient consideration for the potential cost to various laws, regulations, and implementation programs in the affairs of disabled people approved after the decision was made to move the group to the countryside. There is also the increase in the number of service recipients, so as the service is closer to people, they seem to be more informed about what service they are entitled to, so that many who so far have not been assigned to the rural services now. Then there was the conclusion that has not come to the business of disabled persons; however, a declaration of will has been signed to help us carry out our work together in cooperation with the State and the local community, as well as the cost associated with it. Then there are other tasks, such as service to children with serious disorders. We've got eight or twelve children who have very serious disorders, a very severe disability requiring special attention. We emphasize that they are being treated as close as possible to their own homes, but they were not expected especially when the group of paint moved to the countryside. The ministry to one child may be tens of millions. Take, for example, one service area, the West. Let's say it's 100 million. K. Now. If one large disabled child were to be added, the cost could almost double, just because of service to one child needing much care. Then we and the former government plan to establish the United Nations Convention regarding the rights of disabled people and the costs that might arise in their case. The experience of moving is, in my opinion, that rural society is quite successful in carrying out this assignment. They have done so well, professionally, and responsibility. On the other hand, I do ask questions about the service site, for we see that some small rural communities, such as Hornfjörður, have done the job very well and financially. Thus, it seems that the size of the service site is not necessarily important but that the composition of the work being done is also important. [[The president calls.]] There is a discussion, and my learning from this is that it was very important to set a set of requirements for reevaluation and realize that when we engage in the ministry, there is an increased need for service. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u26	A respectable president. I want to say the bottom line. Of course, a social minister has some points to consider in order to meet the point of view. The apocalyptic traced here. I have seen the numbers from the West, and the idea behind the transfer was that disabled people could continue to move abroad and that they would not continue to be so that coincidences would determine whether money was available to serve disabled people, since we ourselves never know where individuals with great service are born or where they choose to move. We want the community to be free, and it's an equal role on the part of the government to level places between areas. When the group of paint was transferred, they were given the full amount of money. It is very important to discuss this clearly. After a cutoff of 2009 and 2010, the incidence of cutouts in the general administrative capacity was 17◯19%. There were unique executives cut down dozens of percentages. The collection of savings or cuts on the disabled during those two years was 2.6% - I repeat 2.6% - not in one year, but in two years. Thus, the litigation team was delivered to a rural group with a further 5% requirement, just as severely added by additional payments, as it were in monocommunications. Since then, it has been found that the group of paintings was thrown into financial balance during the first two years after the transfer. But what happens is that the SIS will be created and individuals will receive their own right to service in accordance with need. Investment to the seminary was always directed by the State through the financial resources, and men only received the services of money to provide. With SIS, individuals gain the right to service, personal rights to service. [[The president calls.]] Of course, this calls for increasing the need for service and the need for financial support. [[The president calls.]] It is not bad evolution, it is a good development, for it ensures better service to disabled people. [[The president calls.]] It is then to ensure that money is available to support that service in accordance with local need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u27	A respectable president. The subject of disabled people is a vast group of languages, a wide variety of disabled people with different needs. It is best that the ministry is conducted in the home and also that the evaluation of that service takes place there. So it was logical to bring the cases of disabled people to rural communities, but such transport must follow a high level of money. Now I have been on a welfare committee where these topics have been discussed, and it has been made clear that my rural communities are deeply concerned. The subject of disabled persons can be a very costly class, and the more difficult it is, the cost can be very fluctuating. These fluctuations can be very difficult for small rural communities. The cost of one disabled person may be as high as the cost of ten others, so different needs are needed. In a small community, one individual can be a large part of the overall cost of the seminary. Many things have changed in the housing of disabled people. Today, most of the world's population live together, each with its own room, and its inhabitants use a house of service, etc. Now more likely, disabled people are given immunity and are able to live independently. This change is accompanied by a large increase in expenses, and the rural communities vary in their ability to accept the category. Where housing needs to be built, the State must provide funds. Special funding must follow the MPA service, which is a great service. It must not be said that disabled persons and their families will experience a crisis in their rural communities. If the jury proves to be beyond the reach of individual rural communities, it is important that the local community can simply tell themselves about the duties of the service that the State is capable of doing better. Most important, disabled people are committed to the services they need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u28	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you very much for this discussion that is important. The causes of the disabled and rights of the disabled are never too much and too often discussed here at the council. In particular, in this discussion, I would like to point out that what we are discussing is a service to individuals who have the right to serve. Everyone knows the word "Preciatives." That was, in effect, the main word for the disabled for decades. When the group of paint was transferred from state to rural society, it was based on the thought of the local rule, that the service was best in the community. It did not in itself change that out there was a group who had the right to serve but had not received that service. It is important, in all of this discussion, that in fact, not new persons with new needs have developed but perhaps just increased pressure on public members to perform services in accordance with the rights of these individuals. I'd like to make it very clear that the work on NPA is very important. It is a great human right for those who enter that service. That's a move to capitalization from one type of service to another, that's not extra money. It is important that we put pressure on developing that assignment and moving ahead in our ministry, not just out of the money. Finally, I specifically recommend it and encourage us to legalize the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u29	A respectable president. I'd like to first thank you for bringing this very important subject to my attention and thank you for the discussion that has been conducted here. For better service, it was observed that disabled people move to serve. The sad situation is that people have to move because basic services cannot be guaranteed in the area where they want to live. Even within the capital area, people move because the services committed in one rural society are better than their local community. Also, rural society has been considering returning the issue to the State because it feels that it is too much a financial burden to them and that they have no income to keep their promise. I think the saying is a little strange if the state can do better or if the local community can do better. It's not supposed to be about a state against a community. It's supposed to be about how we can do things best together, and if that means that we have to have a special balance fund to cope with a poor farm society, even a small community, all we have to do is build it. It doesn't have to be that complicated. We're trying to ensure that the basic rights of a community group are respected, and then we'll just do that. This need not be some war between state and rural society about who to do what and how, but only to do things properly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u30	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion, which is very important. To me, it is primarily about the well - being of the disabled and those who need to enjoy the ministry we are here talking about. To me, it is clear that it was wrong at the beginning when the communities took over the group of litigation. I was then mayor of the local community of Gardur, and I remember that soon we had a problem with this party because of expenses. The SIS changed the position, as mentioned in the speech of the two. paritaprevir Páll's son of Árnason, who became a member of a better and better ministry for the disabled. But what has changed is that the demands are increasing, and I wonder if they're always necessarily the good, all the demands. It may not always be. We also need to understand only where we need to be careful about it. It seems to me that in the South District, my district, in the Southnes and the Southland, this group of languages could be about 400 million or more this year at all. It is unacceptable, and to me it is very important that my fellow societies and the state live up to the responsibility they have in terms of the compromise of the group. I'm assuming it's 2nd. The budget going on on November 26th will have been brought together by countries and states. These are the suggestions presented here. These are the suggestions given at the highest level. A minister for the answer is needed, and he needs to agree on the amount of money involved. Companys are bleeding because of this cause, because of these problems. You can't bite the disabled, that's the most important thing in the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u31	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for starting this important discussion. I can agree with his words and the words of others. Councilmen: We have just returned from a district week, where this urgent matter was being discussed throughout the world. I'd like to start by saying that before I started serving here at the council, I was conducting a group of parents who have children on theutist side, and that was during the period of the move. It is safe to say that people were afraid of what was about to happen, people knew what they had, not what they would get. But at least since I know it, it is safe to say that people in general have been happier with the services that resulted from the transfer. I also served as a basic school teacher before starting my job at a congregation meeting, and there I could clearly see that after the service was moved to the local community, there were more who were given the privilege of service. Often, when things get closer, we see more problems and see the importance of responding. I'd like to ask the highest. Social Ministers to see if there have been any changes in the rules of equal funds that have even been exposed to the more widely distributed regions of the country. We've been talking about cases relating to the West Sea and the Northwestern District. At the same time, I think people have become very aware of their rights today, they know what they're entitled to, and it's a good thing to be aware of them. So people are more active in the ministry.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u32	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur the son of Benediktsson for starting this discussion. Thank you, too, the highest. Minister for comprehensive and comprehensive answers. We have discussed matters in which people in general agree well with each other, and I agree with almost everything that has been presented here, but I'm just going to try to pick in some new topic of friendship. You have been watching the service areas that your rural society has put together, and I want to consider sharing with you whether it can really be so that some of the services have a lot of money, a wealthy service area with little need while other territories have less resources to care for the ministry and a higher amount of service. Then the question is, Is that right? Next question: Could we have to keep track of it, predict the next 10 to 15 years about how this will develop, that even if we do meet the correction now, this will not begin again? Do we have to mess with the calculus like it's sharing our income now? Of course, everyone wants the money to go to those who need the ministry. It's just that way. To help us understand why this development has taken place, I see no better in the data we received on the welfare committee yesterday than the fact that the four service patients with SIS have increased from 900 people to 1,400 in three, four years. The Law on rightskeepers of 2012 has had an effect on them. A lot more consciousness is going on. The building principle, the law on changing agricultural measures, all such factors have changed greatly. On the other hand, I would like to challenge everyone here to make sure that at the work that is taking place today, the local communities will be making a decision on the outlet of the expression, secure a good billion to deal with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u33	Madam President. This is an important discussion. People who live in rural areas, like everyone else in rural areas, are largely people who need a variety of services. I think it is very important that when we discuss the issues of disabled people, we discuss them in that context rather than in a small box marked with the names of disabled people. Such a approach would end in the spirit of the United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled persons on which they are granted validation, but unfortunately, many people have often found it difficult to adopt the content and vision of disabled people and their social status. I agree, however, that, of course, there is a difference between government and rural society. It is true that the services of this particular population of rural society have been increasing over the past few years, as well. On the other hand, a report entitled Fat People and Despair as members of the local community, published in 2013, shows that only 20% of the disabled enjoy services from rural society, while 78% claim to receive service, of which 40% feel that they are in need of service. So we're not at any end of this situation yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u34	A respectable president. I would like to start by like others here because of this discussion that I consider very important. I'd like to agree with the last speaker, for it is important that when we discuss this, we do not imagine that any dikes opened up in some way, and the local authorities started to pump money into this community and are now waking up with a bad dream of conscience. I can say that it is not overslavery to this group, as it is, because I think what we have seen here in the past has been a family service in many places. I notice that people are quoting from an ideal week and the information they received there. I can quote my district in Reykjavík. There we received the report that since 2008 there is a total of 2.6 billion dollars. In almost every aspect of this service, there is a limp. I don't like to think if there was any way that a group of painters would get back, because there's a terrible message for those involved. I think it's a disaster in our relationship and the assignment given to us as elected agents, whether here or in the countryside, that we can't handle it in such a way as to be successful. This is a very important matter, and it's not going anywhere. I'd like to have a clearer opinion of what she mentioned regarding the revision, which I understood to the fact that the jury had been funded and replaced. I would like to have it clear. Finally, I would like to encourage us here to legalize the United Nations agreement on the rights of disabled people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u35	Madam President. Thank you very much. Ministers for the answers she brought and for the discussion here that I think has been very good and helpful. I welcome the highest. A minister said that the job and administrative aims of the transfer had been followed. I hope that the work started with the assessment of the group of languages and financial relationships gives us clear guidance on how to deal with the problem that confronts us. V.E.G. A minister confirmed what I argued in my history about a certain flash being in the air, the change in rules, the cost of change, and the assumed that more people used the ministry. She specifically mentioned matters such as serving children with serious disorders, and all of these are things that I think are absolutely time to go over, and we try to get a clearer picture of how we should tackle. But the big thing ain't gonna leave us. Hv. In the northwestern district, Lára Lara Arnardóttir and Ríkharðsson, a member of the Northwestern district, became familiar with their talks that they might also consider how the funds are divided. It's not only about adding endless financial resources to the rousing party but also about how it's divided and how we're up against it. Of course, moderation and careful spending should be done. But we are in no way talking about turning back or shrinking back from the ministry unless we do not. Therefore, it is important that the current work provides clear guidance on how to resolve the problem. At the end, I'd like to reiterate that our rural society is stuck with a lot of cost. I can't ignore it, and we just can't leave it in the air how we're going to deal with that cost. I'll go back to what I had. According to the Norwegian Summit, it is also important how we divide the money and how it is distributed to weaker areas, such as the one mentioned in my background, with a lower background. But I really appreciate this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u36	A respectable president. Thank you so much for this discussion. It has been very objective and subjective, and it shows that I think senators are interested in this project. Regarding some points directed to me in return to the change in regulations of rural society, it was suggested that we use a professional assessment of how to assign the funds so that people were engaged in a so-called SIS assessment that they were evaluating the need for service in the rural population. As a result, during the past two years some rural communities who felt that they were precisely inclined over the first two years came to a better evaluation, while over the course of the last two years, other rural communities, who had received funds that the SISI assessment, since they were not really needed. One of the things we have discussed with the secretary of the Interior Office and at the equation fund is that it may be important to consider some changes in the regulations of the fund's distribution so that there will be more exposure to the infrastructure or circumstances in the areas where individuals are being taken care of. For example, when there is a long interval between the individual settlements, the cost may be related to that in the service area. Another thing I've taken up with rurals is my own service territory. We have seen, as I mentioned in my history, that small communities have been able to keep their financial frames tight and perform their tasks well, so it does not always seem to be the same mark between size and then the ministry that is being done. I think it's very important that local authorities put their arms around this tribe like any other project they have. This went to the local community, but there may be risks of establishing these services that people have not experienced the same task as the basic schools or other legal projects. That is one of the things we need to keep in mind. The suggestions that, in turn, turn to the accommodations we are working to be as comfortable with those who are disabled as others are. It will, of course, be based on rented apartments for disabled persons. [[The president calls.]] I don't see that there is any need to be any distinction between social apartments for disabled people and those who are compromised, since it would certainly be out of harmony with the emphasis that has been presented in this discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u37	A respectable president. Those who lose their jobs by the age of 60, for some reason, find it difficult to get a job back. At times, people lose their jobs because of their means of managing things or because of organizational adjustments. But the reason is never that people are dumped because of their age. At times, however, it seems simply that you are pushing older people out of the workforce, not interested in taking advantage of their experience and knowledge, as is true of both private and public institutions. In Friðbert Traustason, the chairman of the Office of Business Services said that if people had been unemployed for a year or more and if they had become 60 years old, they would be almost out of business for people who are born in 1960. This is much more strange because they're good workers, they have a lot of experience and knowledge, they're conscientious and faithful to their company or organisation, and they're not from the sick of children. It has been shown in studies that this is not really so that older people are afraid of new technology or changes, as many claim. On the contrary, it is interested in learning new things and learning more, and it also helps better than younger ones to make decisions. This has been seen in tests. Fortunately, there has been a decrease in employment in the country and a record of unemployment last month only 2.4% and not as little since failure. That's a reason to celebrate. Women in the unemployment registry had more than men, and according to the labour agency information, 50 and above 26% of the group were the most common, but long-term non-employment workers are those who have been on unemployment for a year or longer. A respectable president. I strongly doubt that these figures actually show the position of this older group in the labour market. There are a number of reasons. I've talked to a lot of women and men about 60 years of age and even younger ones who don't get jobs even though they're still alive. People have applied, I have seen a list of applications where the person applied for 80 jobs, any job but not even an interview, though he had good education and long experience. It is also known in the North countries that long - term unemployment has many problems, health problems, and social status of people. When people have lost their health, they will have disability benefits, and they will note that the number of microorganisms in this country increased by about 20% between 2009 and 2012, but the State's insurance agency has not had enough to determine the reasons for it. It is not likely that one of the reasons for this growth is chronic unemployment, and many today are reluctant to be enrolled. When people around the age of 60 fall out of unemployment records, they are well - off. For example, those who live together may have enough income to survive, and women who are sent home from a job market will begin to care for their families and may even fit grandchildren if they do not get a job back. Those who do not have these tools need to consult the local community, but financial support has been reported to increase dramatically. Now that we discuss raising our pension age to 70 years, we need to think about this group. Should this group go to unemployment, or will they report to the countryside while waiting to retire after perhaps ten years? Does society afford to sit at home with full - time workers? Do governments have in mind the potential for retirement, such as in northern countries, where people live when they live at the age of 60 without a job?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u38	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Indriðadóttir Injundadotir very much for this discussion. In terms of the questions that are addressed to me - perhaps I may only get to start with the positive points involved in the employment of older people in Iceland. The country's employment party is the lowest amongst people aged 55How74, about 65%. We saw that during 2014, there was a 67.2% increase in employment activities among people in this age range. Despite this, i.e., the older people's employment party is an older person's company. 60 years of age and older, it's the biggest thing that happens in the Western world. In our community, we have found that we simply need people over 60 years of age to be active here in the labour market so that the situation in Iceland differs somewhat from that in the countries we generally compare with. This I think is also one of the reasons why we speak relatively highly when it comes to the economic situation of older people compared to other countries. We have promoted the involvement of older people in the workforce. One of the most outstanding examples of recent losses is active participation. The senator and minister of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, who I consider to be an exemplary member of my class. I hear from her that people around her feel that there is a pattern and a message to others in the community about the importance of taking advantage of the great knowledge that is present in older people and often far more active than in us, who are a few hundred years younger than the person. The figures show that there are no more unemployment rates among middle - aged and older people than in other age groups in this country. But like a dog. It seems that when people at other levels lose their jobs, they are harder to get back into the job market. One of the things we also see is an increased demand in the labour market for maintaining the quality of the work, while the staff's data show that up from 50 years of age decreases the share of people in social and re-education. It has also been shown in comparison with other nations in the so - called 'galt age ranges' index◯ that what actually draws us down compared with other nations is the education or availability of older people for education and education tools. This seems to be something we could take special care of. I also agree that it is important to review these numbers and identify potential obstacles to the participation of older people in the workforce. One is simply the attitude, as mentioned here, but we also see in the numbers that the attitude here in general seems to be far more positive about the employment of older people than in most other opposing countries. What the senator mentioned in terms of the rise in pension age for 70 years has been involved in an increase in the pensioning age of two committees that have covered the review of the social security system and the revision of the pension system. It simply depends on an extended life span. People are healthier, they live longer. At least I believe that, of course, we should try to enjoy these individuals as much as possible in the labour market. We simply need it. The idea has been to try in some way, but we think it would be wise to take a pension at the same age in both legal pension systems. There have been discussions of raising the pension age in steps from the age of 67 to 70. At the same time, we have other guidelines against government employees, who are also important to consider how we can best agree. In many North countries, a system has been adopted that takes into account the ongoing development of so - called life - styles. The life expectancy of the present is different from that of the ten - year - olds who would then be considered as to when people were choosing a pension. What we see is increasing emphasis on urging people to work longer and that pension age is flexible. However, men have been returning from what were called the 'førtide cycle' and have further emphasised on increasing flexibility in the working capacity as well as the rise in pensional age. What I also want to stress and have on my Constitution is about this attitude and to ensure that people are not being discriminated against, including Based on age. It has been shown that in almost every other European country, there has been a ban on discrimination, including on the basis of age. The most common factor where people are being discriminated against in Europe is due to age. Other factors that may be discussed, such as disability or sexual orientation, are less common. The most common cases that arise are differences due to age. We all grow old eventually. [[For example, consider this point: If God promises.]] - If God promises, if we live long, we'll be old. As a result, we can face the challenge of discrimination on the basis of age. [[The president calls.]] I have stressed to help people work longer with increasing flexibility, that we can use resources to strengthen people's health, as well as to emphasize the importance offore education, so that we do not stop acquiring our increased knowledge, and that society is looking forward to the importance of the elderly. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u39	Madam President. I hope I also get to sit here in a chair. I'd like to start by saying thank you. paritaprevir Indriðadóttir Indoviadóttir for this very important discussion. I think it is very important that we take that discussion at the council right now because, as shown in the case of the highest court. Ministers are referred to in progress as increases in pension age. But like a dog. paritaprevir Since it is widely emphasized by Erna Indriðadóttir, it is very important that we take a detailed and careful discussion of this at the Assembly Hall. The change in population age calls for a change of attitude in the labour market. The proportion of older people is growing in the community, and there are always more and more elderly ones who have good health and abilities and who want to stay in the job market longer. Then there is the other side that there are a group of people in a job market whose rates of disability are very high, often referred especially to women over 55 years of age who simply have to stop working because of lack of work and stress. These are things that I think are very important that we all take in harmony. Not only can we change the law code on the pension age but we need to examine the community in general and how this works and if it is actually possible. While some insurance evaluations tell us that we must raise our age to get the improvement system to succeed, we must also always think about society and how this will affect our social ills. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u40	A respectable president. I want to thank you very much for this important discussion. I'd like to pick up the thread by what? A senator who used to speak here because it's very important that we always discuss these matters a little holistic. When it comes to welfare issues, we are inclined to consider unique changes or unique bills and to focus on very special features that may be a part of a larger entity and perhaps become very technical. The elderly's employment party is part of a job participation, professional business. It is important that we not talk about the job of the elderly without taking account of the world's commercial situation. Part of having a strong job participation in older ones is that in some respects the movement and the possibility of a newcomer is reduced. Sadly, as the numbers now show, the younger age groups have a somewhat more difficult job. There we are knocking on the same level as we have seen in European nations, where the age group 18◯25 lives at twice as much unemployment as others. I wanted to point this out because I don't think that the solution in either direction is necessarily fixing the elderly's employment income to a certain year and saying to 70 or 60, but rather, to increase flexibility so that the elderly can participate in professional activities, but not necessarily in the full - time service, not necessarily in half - time work, that is, in 15% of their jobs and not only to 70 years of age, but perhaps to 77 years of age. I think we've gained more and better ability to focus on things and rights. We're supposed to look that way. [[The president calls.]] Perhaps we can use a system, such as the insurance bill we use to manage a job market, such as through a feeding reserve and a good fortune, for this purpose. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u41	A respectable president. When I saw this discussion, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Indriðadóttir Indollóttadotir started, and I thought of metal slang Otto Von Bismarck, who decided in 1889 that social security was due to be 70 years. Allways since 1889, 126 years ago, aging has been based on the figure that Bismarck set without any medical grounds for it. The situation today is that those who become 70 years of age can expect to live for 14,5◯16.7 years based on gender. Those who become 60 years of age can expect to live for 223/425 years on the basis of gender. Writing this team out of a job market is hardly a good source, which is a work force for people. The vast majority of jobs are the self - image that people have to live with, and writing off people of this age, at my age, is a very harsh provision. I believe that those who have gained knowledge, experience, and adjustment in their long years of work and who become 60 years of age are excellent workers. I also have to put it this way that I feel that my colleagues are being treated badly, members of the council, because they are thought to be completely in vain after the end of the council. I think this discussion is quite important, but it's way too short. There are various professions that can do much to help. I can now think of my colleagues, university teachers, who are obliged to give up teaching in their 70's. They have vast knowledge that is far too expensive to put away. A respectable president. I have concluded, but wish this matter be thought here more often.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u42	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you for the discussion and why. A senator for calling attention to this very important and interesting subject. I often find it very sad to see how older people are treated. It seems, therefore, that at times, it is near the age of retirement. Thus, the minimum of time to wait is not even shown for two, three years to reach retirement, as happened, e.g. with a base. We're talking hospices at the Board of Directors this year. They were dumped, although they had only a few years left in their retirement years. In other places, in the civilized world in Europe, it is simply waiting for such things. If it is three, five, six years for a retired person to retire, it is polite to continue working until then. It doesn't seem to be around people here. I think this is primarily a matter of attitude. It's also another thing to see when you travel around Europe, such as Germany and France, that there's a high percentage of older people in the service, a box in stores, and the like. This looks like a teenage job to me. This may be the main reason why youths accept a lower salary and may not have to support an entire family. It's just a question of what Iceland's work market is. Why have we reached the goal of recruiting youths? It's just good and good, but it's work. At least I feel that this kind of work should be for people who have to make a living. While youths may at times have to participate in the workforce, this is a question of priorities and respect for people who need work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u43	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Indriðadóttir India's daughter is obliged to take up this matter and also for the altruism she has put in this category by conducting a major magazine, Live now, devoted exclusively to older people's affairs. The fact is, older people are divided. It is rare for their affairs to be discussed here at the order of the Council. In a job market, this too is decommissioned. The figures that came out here in the question of the day. An expert on the lack of unemployment 60+ would be 26% non-existent. The fact is, in Iceland, a company lacks public market responsibility, and unfortunately it is also among public companies, both the banks of which the state has a large share in and the state radio. It seems that people who are starting to lean in and over 60 are being organized by a workforce. Before long, in the banks, every woman who worked there and was in her 50's had an earthquake in her knees as the months approached. For a time, the banks seemed organized to come from women who had even worked there for decades and had replaced them. I believe that it is the minimum of a company that the public has a share in taking up a tenant policy of community responsibility where the company is on the side with those who have stuck with the company. In this matter, Mr. President, I am sorry to have to say that I do not believe that the Allied Council has followed with a good example in these matters. There are various ways in which you can do this. One of them is a matter of Congress that I've been asking that when it comes to reducing insurance, it's going to be old-time so that the expense of companies over 60+ will be lower than that of others. [[The president calls.]] This involves a financial motivation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u44	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Erna Indriðadóttir's daughter for bringing this case in here. In recent years, one of the largest groups of people who have been long - suffering without work has, as was the case right by the whale. A senator was 55 years old and older. The person here is opposed to waste in every form it appears. I view it this way, since we maintain any form of youth worship, we are throwing to use the experience and knowledge that people have accumulated over the years. In fact, I believe that those with no job, especially those without long-term work, need further analysis, e.g. at the level of education, etc, so that specific measures can be taken in this respect. In fact, I believe that in this case there is a special need and that such efforts should be brought by the state, state, and community. Again, I say we can't afford to throw on the new knowledge of that generation. Apart from the natural nature, as we have seen, these are conscientious people, and able. Another factor is that we also need to be more trained for this group. It should be noted that as already discussed in a social and housing committee, the age of sensibilities has also been estimated that the age of aging can go up to 75 years, but it will also be flexible so that it may be possible to retire at 65 years, with a slight decrease in rights. [[The president calls.]] All of this needs to be considered because this group is far too important and too valuable for us to be free of its power.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u45	Mr. President. A large proportion of people in their 60's are actually young people with grain. We live longer, and we're young. However, there are some prejudices in the community that are related to this age group that, for example, receive incredibly little publicity in the media and little attention. In many ways the group is invisible, but it is huge. It has tens of thousands in Iceland, and it is growing without becoming more visible. People aged 60+ often find it difficult to get a job, and that is especially true of women who are afraid of changing. They don't have the guts to move, and they don't have the guts to resign from jobs that may not be particularly acceptable. So they have a measure of bondage. People are reluctant to move because they have received some recognition at the place where they are, but they may get a stamp because of their age when they come back. It is amazing what a professional life earns little knowledge and experience from older ones. Ideas about flexible retirement age are very exciting. Is it not, in fact, crazy that we should always watch health, motivation, and the ability to take a job? Is it not, in fact, crazy that an honest person is driven by a job market because of his age? I have been on a welfare committee since my arrival at the council, where the subjects of the elderly have been discussed. It has been made clear that in later years, people have an enormous need to have the opportunity to be active in society, and exercise is a fundamental factor in this. A person can greatly slow down the aging process by regularly moving. [[The president calls.]] It's good for the brain and the body, and it's good for society. To be a part of a career must work in a similar way to exercise.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u46	A respectable president. I want to be like others to begin by thanking the advocate of this discussion, which is very needed and necessary in the community today. As shown in the case of what? paritaprevir The Ingibjörg of Þórðardóttir's daughter is our theme on the welfare committee for older citizens. Discussing that matter is an exciting and enjoyable task, and it is also vital. I believe one of the things that have to happen in Iceland is that there's going to be a change of mind about older people. In the past, people were considered old when they were 50 years old, but things have changed dramatically in recent years. For example, yesterday we received an introduction to the welfare committee that the health benefits of the elderly make them longer. There is also work going on at the council and in committees to increase flexibility at the end of the work, which is extremely important as it has been, allowing them to have opportunities for what is splicing and healthy to continue working. At the same time, we must not forget the group that can't, for there is a natural large group in Iceland that has broken and gone badly at a very early age. There is a group that we must take care of as well. I think the key to all of us is the change in mental attitude that older people are absolutely necessary in a job market, and especially when you start looking at all this building ahead of you - yes, at the council too - because they need work. [[Up front.]] Older people have vast experience and knowledge that companies cannot lose. Some years ago, a survey of people's disease leaves in companies revealed that older people in the company were almost never ill while the younger ones were very often ill. So, as we have seen, we must hold on to this human condition.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u47	A respectable president. I have to admit that in this discussion, I'm panicking because it's now that next year I'm getting the right to become an older citizen, being 67 years old. [[For example, no one sees it.]] I'm quite impressed that ever since the Bismarck decision, 1894, I think it was, at that age, you'd be old and tired, and you should be put aside, it's still with people. I think that first and last of all these discussions, we need to ask ourselves, " Is my 67 - year - old people getting older and having to put them away, or even about 60 years of age? ' You might think of a group that is even 80 or 90 years of age in certain compartments, e.g. 60 in the '70's, '70s, '70s, '80, '90. ' But first and last, we need to look for ways to allow people to decide whether they want to continue working or not and to reduce the limits set. You work for the government, you stop 70. If there is a common age and life span, you can go to your 95 - year - old rule by the age of 60. Give people a choice, watch to use the experience and knowledge of everyone of all ages to help build up the community we want, and many call for social responsibility. The choice of people to continue working, to choose the time to retire is in the hands of people, not the tenacious laws of a labour market, or the attitudes of some professionals, including the State. I suggest the highest. A minister will take the first initiative to complete the current task and establish a flexible pension age so that people my age will have a choice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u48	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Social and housing minister for taking this up with the people and for clear answers. I also thank all those who brought up the discussion. It is a pleasure to be examined at the council and mentioned at work. I also like to hear that a minister thinks that the end of the work can be improved and the re-education of older ones may be improved. Flexibility and choice are something that everyone agrees to be for those who are growing older in the workforce. Especially am I glad that a minister intends to use himself to ensure that people are not discriminated against because of age. People have talked about it here, looking at this whole thing, and I totally agree. But sometimes the opinion that younger people can't take jobs from younger people, I don't really know if they really are logical because if they keep looking, older people will grow that much in society, reports show that there are now five to six people behind each retireer and will be two in 2050. That means that the young people who are working at it will have to pay more and more taxes constantly, unless this is solved, as many European countries have done with immigrants, that they come here and do the work that needs to be done and pay taxes to the State. You have to look at that whole thing as well, I certainly agree. I don't think the figures on employment and unemployment at all tell the whole story about the position of this group, and it's urgent to take a closer look, and they even have to make a special effort to meet them. [[The president calls.]] And then I'll join you with what. paritaprevir Sæmundsson's frοmess at last, we just can't afford the waste οf nοing tο use tο the strength and knowledge of the elderly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u49	A respectable president. Thank you so much for the discussion. I also agree that it would be such a waste not to use the power of older people as young people. What has continued to work for us is the major job initiative in the Icelandic labour market, where both women and men, young and old, will receive employment. That's why, as I went through, the industry of those 60 years of age and older in this country is the greatest thing in the Western world. It is something that is truly valuable for an Icelandic society, and we should hold onto it with all possible advice. I also want to reiterate that statistics show that the reported unemployment rate among middle-aged and elderly populations is no greater than in other age groups in this country and that the number of registered unemployment fluctuations in older people is lower among those who are older than those enrolled without employment. But as it also came out in my case, it seems that when people who are well - off in mid - life lose their jobs, they seem to find it harder to get a job again. This is one of the things we need to take special note of. I reiterate the importance of the implementation of legislation that handles the discrimination of the labour market. This is part of the proposal to shape a new labour market policy. It is important to ensure that older people have the potential to maintain their skills, as are all others in the workforce, and one of the things we especially need to point out about the labour fund is that people continue to maintain their skills throughout their lives. While learning is positive, in comparison with other countries, education may be more than already. Then there are these big decisions we are discussing here and we've been discussing quite a lot at the council and committees that have been involved in changing the life - saving age. [[The president calls.]] We need to look at both the general labour market and the public labour market, for we are not necessarily talking about 70 or 75 years of age when it comes to public employees. [[The president calls.]] To me, the key to harmonizing this is so that we do not waste the vital functions of those 60 years of age and older. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u50	V.E.G. President. On January 24, the following appeared on the board of directors' website, by permission of the president: The Minister of Health has agreed to a policy on alcohol and alcohol prevention until 2020. On the basis of it, a defined measurable target will be established and a plan for action to achieve the target. Then there are the government's chief goals in alcohol and alcohol prevention until 2020: Limiting access to alcohol and other drug sources. To protect vulnerable groups from the harmful effects of alcohol and other drugs. V.E.G. President. Too much to expect. Will the minister of health be present for this discussion, as requested repeatedly? That was during the last week, when this matter was being discussed, he's not there, and I demand that this discussion begin only in attendance. Minister of health in the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u51	The President will make arrangements to investigate the state of the world. Secretary of health.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u52	A respectable president. I strongly agree with the suggestions presented here in the matter at any given moment. paritaprevir Ögmundur of Jónasson's son. The discussion on such a controversial matter cannot be continued and does not even appear to be supported by the majority of the council. Here, candidates have declared it to one another, although they have not yet done so in this round, but will likely do so, that they disagree with this approach. Hv. paritaprevir Frosti Sigurjónsson has repeatedly written about, on both his Facebook pages and elsewhere, that he is opposed to this matter, and in no way in line with Iceland's approved health policy, I do not speak of international indications that we have made our international debt and so forth. President. That's all that's going to happen. A health minister will participate in the discussion presented here, and I suggest that we make this discussion sufficient for a lunch break and attempt to obtain the house - to - house minister before further observance is carried out. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u53	A respectable president. This is a strange setting of priorities. Árnason On this day, while police stand and protest the position of the police outside the Assembly Hall and many serious matters, the program must be taken up, that alcohol remains in full focus at the council. I thought that this day's minister's priorities should be discussed with him, on surrogacy, but it is clearly the determination of the health minister and of the Independence Party that the concentration camps are at the top of the program. Therefore, we do not see the surrogates, the administrative bill, all of which have a top priority here as a 1st subject on the program. I believe, however, that although it is permitted for the health minister to have booze in a camp as a matter of high priority during the council, they must be made insistent. paritaprevir Jónasson's son surmise that the Minister of Health is being present for a discussion of the health issues that are clearly under way. Whether it is by selling booze at stores or against them, I think everyone agrees that it is important for public health and normal for the minister to participate in the conversation, not just in a radio room, but also here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u54	That message has been sent to the highest level. Minister of health that his presence is requested in the Hall of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u55	Mr. President. I agree with my wishes to have the highest. Health Minister here to observe this discussion. As noted in the government's policy declaration, public health and prevention work is a priority. It is also clear that alcohol disorders are part of health issues. There was a fine interview with Dr. Kári Stefánsson in the morning broadcast on VOLV this morning where it was shown that the increased availability in this bill will lead to an increase in alcohol consumption, resulting in an increase in the incidence of alcohol diseases. I think it's a self-denial thing that is being said about the consequences of our health - care system to the highest level. Let the health minister come and show this respect by attending the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u56	V.E.G. President. I quoted words published on the board of directors' website in January 2014 and quoted by the national health minister. I want to take the top. The health minister is serious, but I'm also curious about the ultimate. A health minister takes himself seriously and what he means by the words I quote here on alcoholism and whether they converse with the bill under discussion at the council. Thank you very much. President for making arrangements for the highest power. A health minister to come here for the discussion. The problem is that this was also the last time we talked about it, last week, but he blew our minds and shattered our wishes. [[The president calls.]] I don't think the Council can be treated this way. This is the health minister of the country and we are discussing a very urgent health issue here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u57	V.E.G. President. It's fine that messages have been received to the highest level. He is asked to be asked to attend this discussion as far as it will go. I agree that it is extremely important to do so. Ministers are here, listen to the discussion, and take part mostly in it according to events, for as it were. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson pointed out has been the highest. Ministers set out a specific course for alcohol abuse. He has often spoken in such a way that he is concerned about human health and the basic meaning of their reasoning. The members of Parliament who have participated in this discussion are concerned with public health, with subjects on the top of the project. Minister. That's why I'm making a suggestion. þm. Svandís Svavarsdóttir, take a lunch break now and see if the Minister will not be here when we are finished for dinner. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u58	Mr. President. Another day we will discuss the priorities of independent persons. All right, well, that's all right in itself, so it must also be okay that the person leading a case group who has to deal with the consequences of what this can have and that the bill is well described during this discussion, at least In some ways. The last time that issue was discussed was called for him. He wasn't there then. I think it's normal that he does so in some way, although he doesn't necessarily have to be present for the entire discussion, it has been presented here with reasons why he is wanted. He is to be consulted with questions that are relevant to a man in his position as health minister of this country. I agree, of course, that we postpone a meeting and hopefully take the lunch break to make sure the minister comes in here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u59	A respectable president. When it comes to various forms of government policy documents, it should be in the heart of the government's declaration of cooperation, with public health emphasis. Then it adds to the highest. In particular, the secretary of finance speaks of the importance of putting alcohol into general stores under the direction of prime minister. He's probably doing so as leader of the Independence Party, and as a result, it's become a special conflict between the Independence Party in cooperation with the forward party and is not expected to be a traditional member of Congress, which is a number of which are here and have a variety of experiences, as we know it, but it's the word of the highest power. The minister of finance himself, Bjarni son of Benediktsson, puts him in his lawsuit. [[The president calls.]] That is why it is necessary to have the highest order. A health minister comes here to explain his position and his Ministry to such a big matter as public health in the country. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u60	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson has asked for the presence of the highest. Secretary of health. V.E.G. The president has informed that a message was sent to the minister, and he has later confirmed that the minister was invited. That's why I want to ask the highest. The president is also informed whether he has received the highest command. The Minister of Health intends to grant these wishes. I think that's what. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason has every right to present the issues he considers most urgent. I don't mind discussing this matter. However, I believe it is important to the highest. Here, then, the minister of health will explain certain viewpoints he has on the matter. January 24th, he published alcohol and drug - control policies. The aim of number one is to limit access to alcohol. So we need to hear it from the highest source. A minister as to whether this goal is compatible with this bill because this attitude must be an important part of the situation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u61	A respectable president. I usually don't have the opinion of the highest. Ministers are to be present for every matter he is concerned with, but I have to say that this case is more important to me than people realize. Here we deal with views that are not simply about whether this is a good idea or a bad one, including values. I'd be very interested to have the highest. Minister here, especially because of that. A party he's in, and of course because of the lawsuit. I also wish that the highest. Ministers come here and talk to us, not necessarily because he has some special obligation, but because it would be very interesting for all of us, and I think he himself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u62	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for the discussion and attention that this subject brings. This shows that the matter is important to members of the body and that this discussion is taken up. V.E.G. When the matter was discussed during the last assembly, a health minister was greatly involved with the discussion. I'd like to let you know that things haven't changed since then, and the discussion hasn't changed, but that's how it's been. This has been attended by a minister. This has come into the process of an ongoing strike, so I don't know if he's caring for them right now and I think he's trying to do it more. With regard to the council program, I would like to state whether it is not properly understood by me that it is determined by the council's president in cooperation with the prime committee and members of the council. It is the arrangement that is set aside so that if this issue was not on the program now, other members of the council would be on the program as important. I would like to point out that other parts of the program are being discussed earlier in society, such as special discussions and consultations with ministers who have been on the program earlier. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u63	Mr. President. Though it may have happened to you. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason's chief. I don't recall much of the talk I spent last year as a health minister. A minister has ever given an opinion on how this bill is compatible with his own alcohol and drug use policies. It is important for us that the person who is the highest executive executive in this field gives us the opinion that he has expected and is based on the opinion of his experts. That's useful. I find it hard to believe that. A health minister who is courageous, as he has often shown, should be on the run from giving up his position. It is his duty to give leadership in all health - care matters. His public policy is now to limit access to alcohol, so we need to know the highest level of position. Minister. It is difficult to keep up with this discussion unless you know it so that a critical decision can be made on the subject. þm. Vilhjálmur Arnason has delivered, whether the senator's bill is compatible with the government's official policy in these matters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u64	Mr. President. I also agree with what was said here, and I want to point it out. Supposedly, despite the fact that the health minister was here when the case was last given, here are members of the council who may have addressed a matter that was not then, and have not had an opportunity, they wish to talk to the Supreme Court. He or she will be asked about him in terms of public health or whatever other questions they members of the Parliament might choose to ask the minister. We're gonna go for a second. A senator's had a conversation about these matters, and I've said it's about both public health and access issues. I find it very important that the health minister - we face today that we cannot cope with the consequences of alcohol and drugs - tell us and show us how he feels that this sort of thing is for the better benefit of public health policy. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u65	A respectable president. I just wanted to say that I have no comment on the fact that this matter is on the program, that I find this subject interesting. It's not just the question of whether alcohol should be in stores or not that I find interesting and important, I think the discussion on this subject is important. I do not know another matter that is as beneficial to Congress as it is to a discussion. That's why I'd like to have the highest. Minister here. I don't say any offense that he's not here. I'm just sorry that he doesn't share with us because it's interesting. This is interesting. [[Up front.]] What I really find shocking or boring is that there are no more senators here, and especially the members of the Commission, to discuss this interesting matter. I feel that the treatment, in this case, is distorted and defective in the way the General works in general. I think we can improve the situation a lot if we honor the council by taking as much part in the discussion as possible.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u66	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason came up earlier and said that there may not have been much change in this matter, it would be the same thing that had been discussed at the last council. What has changed is to the highest. Secretary of finance, Bjarni Benediktsson, has given this matter much weight to his policy debate. It has also been amazed that since it is such a priority, why it is not spoken by the government, why it's a Senate case. So overlaps with the government's declaration of alcohol and alcohol abuse. I think it's too normal to have the highest power. A minister of health to get his opinions on this matter and whether the document referred to earlier was presented, which he stressed in a drug - prevention policy, or did not or did not have it retracted. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u67	A respectable president. Now, as it has been called, we are going to discuss this matter with us about booze in a camp. I agree with what was said earlier that we miss ministers very much. [[Up front.]] The report on the bill says that privates in general seem more trustworthy to enforce minimum age rules, to buy tobacco, and that the community's health monitoring is to be done. It simply says that they can be trusted. I'm going, with the permission of the President, to read from the report: ▪ In this context, it is proper to point out that private partners generally trust to comply with minimum age rules to buy tobacco. These private agents are entrusted with the regulations on delivery of toxicities, firearms, and ammo. Although alcohol abuse can be abused, its properties seem to be somewhat trivial compared to tobacco's properties, much less toxic, gunarms, and ammo. National Health Organization monitors the respect of tobacco trade age. The police then monitor the age limit for drinking in restaurants. At this time, there has been a lack of criticism at this time. This is not supported in any way. Whether to be trusted by private authorities has not been investigated, so it is simply suggested that it is generally counted, but no research is presented to support that claim. I also suspect that in many parts of the country, the health department has very limited funds to perform this surveillance role as part of the bill, which is probably the case. It would be interesting to see the blackness of this surveillance and whether it's enough. Today, shops and supermarkets work for people under 18 years of age. If people buy tobacco in a store where a shopkeeper is under 18 years of age, there should be a rule that one employee will come and hand out the tobacco package. Of course, he does so in front of the young person who is overdoing it. I allow myself to doubt that this is always perfect in every place. I remember a survey, unfortunately, I don't have it on hand, which high school students did at some point during the checkout, they tried to shop and buy tobacco. It was very effective in a number of cases, so I put a question mark on what is said in the bill report, that the surveillance is very good, and that people can be trusted with it. Since then, it has been tested in the wine camps, where monitoring is taken much more closely than in the general markets and markets. And then all kinds of things come into it. In small places in the country, and maybe even here in the capital area, these kids will take care of their friends. We know that youths are exposed to many peer pressure, and the self - image is not quite 100% in everyone, so many people may find it hard to stand up there and say no when their best friend or best friend pressures them, so I'm not quite sure that they're holding the report. The report also discusses whether it is normal to have a government agency that has a patent to sell in a small business, which is designed to foster a certain level of consumption. On page 18. 8 says, with permission from the President: ▪ It is reasonable to ask, " Is it reasonable to believe that it is one of the principal roles of a government agency that has the patented right to a small store of alcohol to cherish the high cost of a certain consumer culture? ' Would it not be normal for such a job to be done by others? Drug abuse, such things cannot be compared with eating habits in connection with other products. I'm afraid there will be certain groups of society out there. Likely, certain types of alcohol will fall to the price, while others will rise, likely to be few, cheap beer, and wine products will be available at the supermarket, while expensive species will only be sold in special stores. Then they will drink large pigs, and the rich will be able to go to the fine wines and bottley beer. It's a question of whether we want to go that way. The discussion of the subject has repeatedly pointed to public health, and it is clearly the strongest evidence. Despite the fact that it is possible to discuss it and point to other evidences, the public health is clearly the strongest. Many reports have warned against evolution and the bill itself. We members of the Parliament faced a challenge in which 23 member groups challenge members not to accept this bill. This is especially one article that is of interest. I'm going to read it, with president's permission: As assessed by the World Health Organization, alcohol consumption is among the strongest risk factors for human health. The financial cost of alcohol consumption, including alcohol consumption, is shown in many areas. For example, in the health, law enforcement and justice systems, the insurance systems, and the commercial systems. Not to be overlooked is the influence on individuals, families, and closer to society. There are a lot of things that can follow, and we know it, all research tells us that drinking alcohol will increase. What is the result of the increased consumption of alcohol? We know that alcohol consumption is accompanied by, for example, an increase in alcohol consumption. Violence. Are we ready to put it on scales? How much will be the increase in violence? Do we have a measure of it? Violence can go a long way in order to be acceptable. I don't like it very much, and I think it's very dangerous. Then, of course, it's the teen drink. One might wonder, " Why don't we stop talking about this and start discussing how we can protect ourselves? ' Should we not discuss how we can support people with addictions? Do we not have a curve of some mindless place now with this discussion when perhaps we should discuss matters that are real problems? I don't see any problem with going to the state wine camp and buying some wine. We have a huge problem here, but we're not gonna worry about it. We're gonna start selling alcohol as a problem that's not in the way. I used to say that the public health issues were the most obvious argument against this bill, but they're also consumer reasoning, and they're also a myth, for I use alcohol myself, and I'm even really interested in alcohol. I'm interested in good wine, and maybe especially good beer. It's a legitimate thing, and anyone who knows how to do it should be able to eat it. I live in a Ness shop far from the capital area, and what will happen there and in other places in the country? I can't imagine it being marketd for a Gourmet wine store in my 1,500 men's village, I can't quite picture it. However, although the selection of the wine camps at the smaller places in the country may not be the same as in the large liquor camps here in the capital area, we are offered a wonderful service. All I can do is go and Þorlákur him, the branch manager at the liquor store in Ness shop, and say, "I want to try this beer that I found on the website of the liquor store. I can see what's there and I can ask the branch manager to order for me. He does, it goes fast, and I don't pay for the transportation expenses. I don't quite see that it's going to be the same thing at the Sambourn, in the supermarket in my hometown, and I think it's going to affect our wine culture in the country. I'm not saying there's some human privilege that I've paid access to wine, not at all. But we may want the culture of the wine to be in a way that allows us to make a choice and to handle the product in the way that most people want and in the direction that the situation has been developing. The wine culture in Iceland has been developing for the better. The bill runs the income and the inhabitants of the country from an improved wine culture, perhaps driving the rich and the regional people back to a wine culture that we don't particularly like.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u68	A respectable president. I appreciate your speech. A senator I found very interesting, especially the point that perhaps we should just stop discussing it. I don't think it's time. It is very important to discuss the nature and purpose of the State. Not long since I was 16 and 18 years old, it was never a problem to get a drink, either at dance clubs, or ask someone to go to the state, or just go out on my own, call a beer or a brew. [[For example, consider: How did you do that?]] That's what it's all about. A senator's view that bioavailability will change, especially in regard to juvenile drinking? That is an excellent access even now, perhaps a few intermediate teams. Youths who want to drink drink drink simply, and their current arrangements do not prevent them from doing anything.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u69	Mr. President. Thanks for that. I think that's where it's at. A senator actually ignored the research and what we know. The increased bioavailability increases the consumption rate. I can't answer this any other way than that I just insist on my meaning that the increased bioavailability has direct connection with increased consumption. Regarding teen drinking: Teenagers who are determined to drink drink drink drink do so. We can compare ourselves to Denmark and see the cream there when the beer can be taken with the meat and stuff. I think that's a direct influence on juvenile culture. I don't agree that increased bioavailability does not affect consumption. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u70	It is natural to increase the bioavailability and may increase the overall intake. When we are going to reduce teen drinking, the first thing we need is prevention. My best prevention - and it's not long since I'm now relatively young - was when I lived in Denmark. When I was about ten years old, some peers who were 15 years old came and explained to me and my kids how to drink beer. It was not until we were 16 and 17 years old in MR that we had an idea and that we needed to drink water between drinks. Prevention is what matters. Of course, increasing bioavailability means an increase in alcohol consumption, which is a question of who is drinking alcohol. Are they teenagers? Is that the weakest percent of us, or are we just talking about ordinary people who are having one or two beers with their food? I think that's a bit of a argument. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u71	I'm impressed to take Denmark as an example. If we take all the northern countries, we know that they're the biggest problems. There's a lot of teenage drinking, and they'll start drinking at the youngest. I don't think we should ever try to go into some Danish model, we're going to try to avoid it as much as we possibly can. I agree completely with what. A senator says we should take precautions. We're supposed to be doing a lot of preemptive work. I think we can make it, and we've made quite a success of it. But I can't see that putting booze in a camp doesn't really do that, so we just agree that we should put much emphasis on prevention.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u72	A respectable president. First, I would like to mention that there is a distinction between how evolution has occurred here and there in Denmark. In Denmark, they are now working toward, someone, such as minimum age and so forth, while we lived in absolute possession and have been working towards freedom. What interests me is about youths' consumption. I agree that the overall consumption will increase and it will have increased over the last 15 years. However, the drinking of youths has been reduced, and at the same time, there has been an increase in the number of liquor stores. There's more vision, the service is more friendly, it's more advertised if anything is done. Therefore, I don't think it agrees with the Icelandic facts that increasing the bioavailability results in an increase in alcohol consumption for youths. It's just not what's happened here. I just agree with what. A senator on prevention and on the same end is working on it, and that is what has made the difference. But that is not a fact according to the best knowledge. The senator that alcohol consumption has been added to the level of alcohol consumption while the bioavailability of alcohol has increased greatly?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u73	Mr. President. It is true that teenage drinks have been added, but I'm sure that TVR is part of it. It's really the change in this culture that we've been talking about, that's what the state's been doing, that's what the preemptive work and the school system and the education system all does. I think we should be very happy that we have been achieving tremendous results there. But I can't quite see the context, that there is evidence that we are going to sell booze in the store. I am absolutely convinced that the supermarket - or I'll let myself question, let's say that the supermarket is going to do the work the state has done. The State views it as its community duty to have a predestination job and to try to influence the cow. I allow myself to question the fact that the supermarkets will.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u74	A respectable president. Maybe I've just missed a few of these things all together, I don't remember and I don't know how to play ATVR directly. I don't know that children will be exposed to ATSVR or ATVR. Precautions take place in school. They also take place in much greater context. It is also a matter of drawing parents to the table and such. That's how prophylaxis works after my best awareness and I don't see the role of ATVR in that job, I have to say right now. When it comes to financing prophylaxis, I don't think that the presence of ATVR is any necessary basis for this. It's about money and the government getting the most out of selling drugs that are alcohol, alcohol is drugs, and nothing else. But I'd like to ask. Because she went into culture, a senator could not compare alcohol with other products. All right, it compares it with the drinking industry before, for example, the legalization of the beer. Nobody wants to go back to the beer ban. Why not?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u75	Mr. President. There were some things to say, but the question was, Why don't we go back and ban the beer? Again, I think the state has a big part. It is not true that TSVR has not been involved in any prophylaxis, it is not correct. It is shown in the report with the bill that InTVR is involved in the production of wine culture and is in cooperation with the police, and special emphasis is laid on the challenge of the availability of adolescents, etc. I think that's where the dealer, the state, is only to be commended, that's part of the prevention and prevention of teenage drinking with the schools and other sources.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u76	V.E.G. President. There's one thing we have in common, me and you. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Þórðardóttir, that we are interested in wine. Wine makes my heart rejoice. But I am quite aware that some people cannot cope with it. I think I'll talk about it. Like speeches by many senators who fought against selling beer, a senator will not last well. But people work really hard on the public health issues, and I have to say I can't quite get them all. It claims that research shows that drinking here is going to increase a lot. I don't know if these tests have been properly slided, but there's nothing that bothers me more than when people say: Studies show. One thing we know. Despite the tremendous increase in access to alcohol in Iceland for years now, adolescents' drinking has been attracted to one another. What might be the result? A senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u77	V.E.G. President. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Herveson Níelsson's son may not have been in the hall when I answered Helgi Hrafn Hophni just before, because we were discussing this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u78	Repeat it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u79	Yeah, repeat that. A teenage drink has been drawn together, which is extremely positive, and we are very happy about it. Why has this happened despite our allowing the 1989 beer, if I remember correctly? It's because there's been a tremendous amount of work to be done, a fine prowess. This has been done in the schools, in many partners and sports activities, in the sports movement, and in the ATSVR, where MTVR has been directly interacting with and cooperating with e.g. Police. [[The president calls.]] So I think prevention is the reason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u80	The President reminds us of the traditional form of address at the Assembly Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u81	V.E.G. President. So why don't we just let this bill go through and continue our good pros? But I also wondered about something else that I heard in the talk each time. Senator. She feared that drinking would not be as cool because of this change as if the ATVR was to be done and referred to at home. Counts 'em out. For ten years, a senator drinking the Icelanders under the guidance and protection of the ATTVR that our drinking culture is better and more cool than the states that have sold it at the merchant's wing of the corner for as long as the oldest men remember?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u82	Mr. President. I'm sorry, I can't answer a question. paritaprevir Beggar the Brynjar of Níelsson as to whether culture is better in one country or another. You have to do a little research to do that, what's good culture and what's bad culture and all of this. [[Up front.]] But we can be sure of that, and I think most people would agree that the culture in this field, the culture in Iceland has clearly changed, and it's changed for the better. [[The president calls.]] And then I repeat, thanks to the government, that's due to prevention and so forth.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u83	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Ingibjörg Þórðardóttir approached this matter in a somewhat novel way for me. Hv. A senator's concern was that if alcohol was put into camp at that time, it would be very difficult for a cowish drink in the country and especially at Ness shops. This set the matter in perspective for me, just as at the time when I first read the irony remarks of Oscar Wilde, which revealed to me the anguish that may be unduly related to alcohol. It was his famous statement: 'The work is the evils of the drunken classes.' It put things in perspective for me. But talk. On the other hand, a senator made me think about the consumerBrynjar Níelsson of view. I had never thought things out of my life. Could it be that if this bill reaches its fulfillment, the selection will be for those who want to drink cooling and have the opportunity to choose from good wine, and their position will grow worse? If so, I'm convinced that we'll even get hit. paritaprevir The armoury of the son of Níelsson with us who have serious doubts about how good this bill is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u84	V.E.G. President. I have to agree with what. Skarphéðinsson I'm convinced that if a private person is allowed to do this, and the state will stop selling alcohol, then market policy will be the dominant. I'm convinced that in small villages -- I'm not particularly thinking about Nes shop, it just so happens that I live there, but I know there's some interested people about wine in all the villages of the country -- they're downsizing. It clearly does. We'll be offered some bonus beer and some cheap boxing wine, somehow I think, just a straight way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u85	Mr. President. I don't claim to be one of the two of them. The senators Ingibjörg Þórðardóttir's daughter and Brauns the Brynjar of Níelsson, who portrays themselves as oppressed drinkers, while I am an aspirarian in that position. On the other hand, I feel that there is a problem. A senator would be pleased to show those who want to make the choice of good wine that it is more than possible to approve of this bill. I agree that those who want to enjoy the quality of life that is involved in an iron - bearing drinking and saying it just as it is that I would like to get to know the Þorlákur mentioned in the past. From this I think it can well be said that this bill reduces the potential of those who wish to have the expertise and services of well - trained employees; that such people, as it were, are at a loss. A senator said, "I'll just be straight into some cheap brute that nobody knows where it comes from or where it comes from. "
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u86	Mr. President. I'll be happy to introduce you to him. paritaprevir That's Össur's Skarphéðinsson for the Þorlákur, that's a boy. It may not have been a direct question from what source. A senator, but we are, I think, agreed that the selection will be reduced and it will be different for us to go to the Vienna store and buy the fancy beer or the fancy wine or whatever it is. And what a joy it is that Össur has faith in the power of reason! paritaprevir Hermies, Níelsson's Brynjar, may just be coming over to our level in that this will limit his interests about drinking alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u87	V.E.G. President. We will discuss a bill to legalize a change in the law of drinking and tobacco, the laws on the extra income of state funds, alcohol laws, and the price of alcohol and tobacco, in subsequent adjustments. It's about a little liquor deal. Hv. A member of the case, Vilhjálmur Árnason, conducted a series of articles entitled This bill and produced changes needed to be made on laws involving the sale of alcohol and tobacco. I'm not going to go into my talk to make a lot of changes. Here it is suggested to make small changes in the legal environment of alcohol and tobacco sales, although their objective is to achieve, but it is suggested that the patent of the State's Alcohol and tobacco trade, the ATVR, on the small sale of alcohol should be deposed and a small sale into a certain extent of freedom or freedom by certain conditions, according to the way we use it. As shown in a bill report, the bill was submitted to the last legislative legislation, therefore 144. Then the subject was given much publicity and a number of references. A top-of-the-art Board of Education, a total of 46 reviews against 23 disclosures, if we can say so, mostly on the basis of public health. 17 were positive for the bill and for its changes, mostly on the basis of business and freedom. Six people gave a review, but they did not take sides in their reviews. That there are many things to consider, as the discussion on this subject is clear. There is a vast amount of information and research on both the products involved and the potentially harmful effects of abuse. Nothing gets out of the way. However, the discussion here has brought into my mind a theory that Herbert Simon, an American economist, put forth, and called limited reason, by permission of the president, a Šbounded Nationality Einarsson. In that theory, he actually challenges the classic model we believe we follow, i.e. that we gather all available information at a limited time and roads and then evaluate all benefits from them and, as a more practical result. According to this Simon Herbert theory, it is never or never so, but we end up with an acceptable conclusion that is isolated from the limited aspect of the subject because it is difficult to sum up all the information and adjust and reach the most efficient conclusion, and what is it anyway? This is a feature of this discussion. It will also look, and it is shown in this doctrine, by emotion, and that is normal. It is also colored by the human nature that varies values. There are many variables in this discussion. It is relatively complex to compare all this information. Then there is the fact that much of the information is based on limited research and other actual evidence, as I did. Here, opposers of the bill have used public health reasoning. But, as indicated by the opinion of a greater part of course. In the last case referred to by the Economic and Business Committee it is absolutely not necessary to be the opposite of business freedom, nor can it be claimed that the carriers of this bill are opposers of human health. It has to be said that this friendship has been a feature of the debate among those who speak against the bill, and together it is characterized by a lack of faith in the knowledge and ability to make decisions of people in general, a lack of faith in the trades of the country. Other factors that are relevant to public alcohol policies, e.g. The fact that you can read In the World Health Organization reports and beyond, more data shows that prices and taxation have twice the effect on consumption than the bioavailability. Also, according to the bill we are discussing, not all the limits on biofuels are being made to form opening times and ratings, not at all. The big change is that the person who delivers the product is on a private payroll if the bill becomes the law, the store in the country, and not on the payroll of taxpayers, the shop in the country we trust to sell us a sugary product, fat product, tobacco, and other goods that are not necessarily desirable from public health. According to the World Health Organization, three major threats to public health are obesity, tobacco, and alcohol, and approximately this order. We're supposed to take it seriously. But should we really sacrifice the possibility of managing and saving Kingdom interests because we do not trust the store to obey laws or consumers in order to make responsible decisions? Alcohol was long banned here on a similar basis, and beer was long banned because some believed that drinking in Iceland would begin at work, and the hip would be replaced by coffee in a large way. That is a complete lack of faith in the individual's decisions in general. I have not seen it in the discussion that opposers of the bill spoke of a single word about the link between income, money gain, and consumption, though it is a huge factor and a direct causal relationship between countries in this context. No, a respectable president, not a word. In the mid - 50's, the study of private sales and consumption by other countries, e.g. correspondent in Finland, 1969. It is completely forgotten in this discussion what the economic crisis is and the changes in prosperity in the decades below and the fact that prices have been developed to reduce alcohol and alcohol consumption in line with other European countries. No, sire, increase in bioavailability and increase in consumption should be here and anywhere else. The fact is, there are all kinds of distribution arrangements, monoscopies, such as we see in the country, free sales, and even different types of specialities, depending on whether we are talking about strong drinks or weaker. I think we should be able to discuss this matter more carefully because the aim is to use all available means to promote human health and to reduce alcohol abuse at the same time as we treat taxes and feed the business environment. This bill can certainly be part of it. We can sharpen public alcoholism, use other sources, and apply many practical suggestions in this regard. We can increase the production of shops at both square meters and workforce. We can take into account some of the settlements in which this bill has fallen to strengthen less shops in the country. We can measure smaller zones around the country that can apply this to tourists and especially to save tax money, which is a requirement for our priorities, conferences, and discipline when it comes to government spending. I'm going to quote the comments of the taxpayers Association. It says: No sound evidence has been shown to indicate that the transfer of alcohol from the state to private sources, which are entrusted today for the sale of almost all other consumer products [...] is costly for the use of ATSVR, and by reading annual accounts, it is estimated that almost nothing is coming out of the sales of alcohol. Aker paid for the government seems to come largely from tobacco trade. Therefore, the government would have the opportunity to redeem its own money ATVR and reduce it by debt. Here is a reminder to consider this matter and every case and opportunity to manage taxes well. In any case, we should try to keep up the discussion and to examine every opportunity involved in the changed arrangement being announced in this bill. The report Cleve Data, informative reviews and reviews on the subject, provides interesting information on business views, the sectoral and saving effects that this bill can produce. For one thing, it shows that the uninstalled amount of money committed to the ATVR operation is less than 5 billion. You can do things for that money, but it's once and for all. At the same time, the possibility of saving more than 3 billion people every year is likely to increase. An excellent report published by Arnar Sigurðsson is calculated each year's savings. It is derived from the annual calculation ATVR and is consistent with the information provided in more details. It presents a convincing amount of savings, including wages and pay - related expenses, housing, and a figure of over 3 billion. Thus, the first year, this arrangement would be realized, can save according to that, corresponding to one year's hunting expenses. I'm not gonna say so here, but from the information and numbers, we can't just ignore it, and I'm gonna mention this thing to put things in some context. The opposers of this bill have some people, so I'm modest in those statements, arguing that the matter is up to the level of triviality that it does not belong on the program of a respectable president. But more closely toward the sales arrangement and the involvement of the State in such trades. Of course, there is always a valid question on the political scene whether the State should be involved in commercial operations in general, where the market has the influence and ability to handle the business. Of course, the quality of the relevant matters. We have no doubt about the importance of providing basic services, health care, education, transportation, and law enforcement, and certainly alcohol is not a regular product and, in the opinion of many, is the absence of general criteria for the involvement of the State in business. People's health issues are important, and the potentially harmful effects of misuse of the product or overingestion are of course important, the effects and consequences of abuse of patients in their health and social aspects of the individual and his family, increasing the pressures on the health and welfare systems. Therefore, it is vital that we discuss it here and also because there is a greater demand for government, politicians, to serve here on the legal field, to prioritize the government. This means, among other things, that individual goals must be weighed, and we should evaluate which goal to reach the most efficient conclusion for society and citizens, so tax dollars can be used as the most efficient way. This case is in my mind. I can also say that this discussion alone is good. It draws attention to what we are dealing with. Whatever the arrangement becomes for sale and distribution, it is a ongoing task of public health, and it certainly is limited in access to one of these. However, there is nothing in the discussion that has in no uncertain way shown that the only thing that is to change the commercial structure is that is sometimes indicated; rather, it never leaves us to contribute to human health and work to the loss of alcohol - related drug abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u88	Madam President. Hv. A member of the council encouraged a controversial discussion about the bill presented here. Of course, he succeeded in dealing objectively with his language. Yet, I felt that there was a lack of that. A senator, when he tried to paint the image that he was discussing this in a calm manner from one side to another, suggested something that might fall with those who oppose the bill in question. My question to why. The senator is as follows: Is he simply against the stated policy of the Supreme Court? Health Minister on alcohol and alcohol abuse which says the first goal of policy is to limit access to alcohol and other medications? Hv. In effect, a senator has to tell us whether he feels that this is a wrong goal. That's what it said. A senator that there had been nothing to show for it - he said, of course, detours, I have never spoken that word - that the cause of those who oppose this bill was correct. It's not right. A senator, and this was shown in his case. One thing like that. A senator said, if I had just noticed, there would be men, and he then put it, with any means necessary to reduce the harm caused by alcohol. He mentioned a number of ways to do this, but one of those measures must be to limit access. Is it not that if we are to use every means available, we must go this way along with the rest as well? A senator mentioned if he wishes to be consistent, which I naturally do not question in the case of such a gentleman? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u89	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for the question. It is quite twisted so that you could fall into the trap of saying it and thus confirm that it contradicts the speech I thought earlier, that consumption would not be affected by limited bioavailability. On the contrary, in my speech I said that one of that advice, and that's exactly right, is to limit access. It was an initial direction for ATSVR to limit its bioavailability, making it simply difficult for people to approach this hip. It's changed completely. There is a paradox. Today we even recommend the wonderful service of the wine camps. They regularly remind us that we should not forget our map at home. The number of sales has increased over the years, tripled. At the same time, the drinking of children and teenagers has been greatly diminished. Hence, thanks to the excellent public health and the preemptive work of a company in that area, a parental organization, a group of young people, sports and education, and the preemptives to form. Therefore, I would like to say that there are many other factors in public alcoholism that can work along with and contribute to public health. That was the point of my speech. That is not to say, though we change the trade arrangement, that this alone will lead to so much increase if we work well at all the other things. For example, the British are cutting up war lines in their own affairs. [[The president calls.]] What do they do? They raise prices. [[The president calls.]] They don't change the pitching arrangement.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u90	Mr. President. Hv. A member of the United Kingdom named United Kingdom, but this is not the same as Britain and Iceland. If alcohol consumption is excessive in Iceland, it is indeed a national rage in Britain. There people have been forced to take sides against excessive drinking. What causes it? There is a bioavailability and an increase in alcohol availability in the UK, none other than that, primarily. I disagree with things as a matter of course. A senator said. For example, I disagree completely, for it was the main thing in his speech to consider people's viewpoints. I thought it was a speech. The senator's main focus on saving money, 3 billion, by reducing his TVR, is that it is possible to save money. Where do they go with money, boy? Senator? Do they perhaps compete for an increasing competition that leads to a loss of alcohol price? I usually feel that doing all there is to reduce products that the public buys, but I make an exception with alcohol. I could also make an exception to sugar, as I did in the past. I feel like a speech. A senator's view of saving is far too great. I also believe that changing arrangements may damage or reduce the choice of those who want to enjoy wine in moderation and good wine and who can turn to professionals. That's my opinion. Hv. A senator may allow himself to reason otherwise. Still, the punctum saliens are in this to the point. A senator said that alcohol abuse should be done by any means necessary. Now it turns out that he also believes that one of the advice is to limit access to alcohol. [[The president calls.]] I thought he confirmed it back there. Compared to that, if anything. A senator now wants to think hard and to be consistent, how could he possibly support the bill? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u91	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson for very clear comments and questions. I'll be honest with you that I can support this bill because I think we can get a little bit of savings along with the fact that we're a public health worker. That was my conclusion, and that is my conclusion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u92	On the contrary to what you said.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u93	- Not at all because there are so many things, and I put them in my speech, which are about to promote better public health. Limited bioavailability is one of them, part of which is a commercially available product. There is nothing in studies, data, or information that can be said that this may be necessary because of the limitations of bioavailability in many other areas, to form a age limit, opening time, increasing sales status, and perhaps mainly where there might be some context. There are many other factors we need to consider when it comes to public drinking. If we only wander on East Street, how many places can sell us alcohol? [[Up front.]] How many restaurants are there? It's been free a long time ago. The number of sales has increased by hundreds of percent; the availability of alcohol has changed completely.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u94	This...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u95	That -- What?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u96	...not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u97	- Of course not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u98	Not a conversation with a speaker.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u99	I think we can help improve public health while we can save on public employment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u100	Madam President. Thank you. paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Þórsson for his speech. Although my main concern disagrees with the question, she made some fine comments. A senator, in whom I strongly object that there will be a law changed in the direction of selling alcohol at grocery stores. Hv. One senator said that the bill was not a function of causing any of the nods, including talking about the consumption by this change in bioavailability. So I don't agree, so I'd like to ask who. A senator, who is so special in Icelandic society as compared to the many foreign studies that the governor brought together and sent to us members of Congress. What is it in all the research that makes it impossible to apply it to Icelandic society? In what is the difference between Icelandic society and other Western communities, since in many of these studies it is being pointed out that the system of sale and the part of the bioavailability is extremely important? That's my first question to ask. Senator. Then I would like to ask about the decision made by the Special Assembly of the Agency from 2015, which states that the Agency feels that it is based on professional and scientific data in public health and that alcohol is sold at grocery stores. [[The president calls.]] That's what I'm talking about. A senator disagrees with his own party party party?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u101	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir for her questions. I'm going to first address the question involved in the resolution of the forwarding party council. Indeed, it is true. A senator concluded that this conclusion exists, but I disagree with so many of our classes. It's just that it has to be said at the moment. It is in some of our classes that we have with us a certain width, perhaps more tolerance for opposing views. This is one of those matters, I could mention another matter, but that's not our subject now. I do not enjoy extraordinary tolerance when it comes to this view of public health. A trained teacher and coach for many years, of course, I feel it. People who come up with me generally don't care. They ask me how it works if the coach can be supportive to change the pitching order. I said in a speech earlier that I thought we could contribute to public health as well as save money in government business. The only thing we really are changing is that the person who gives the product is on the payroll with a private citizen, not with the government and the taxpayers. That's really the only change. But there are so many other factors that matter, and I'll get into it better in time for research, what's special about Icelandic society.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u102	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. A little Colombian situation may be that of taking the whole part in the decision of the Assembly of the Agency during a rough time. A senator, though a member of that party, disagrees with her, but this may at times be the case. I just want to mention it again in terms of public health, where I just disagree. A senator said that public health goals can be extended in another way. At any rate, I believe that the simplest way to help them is to listen to foreign research and remain unchanged in the sales arrangement. There is something else that I would like to mention at the moment. A senator. Although the focus of this discussion has certainly been on the public health program, more viewpoints have been drawn into the discussion, and I think that's very good. One thing like that. A senator mentioned freedom and freedom of market. Now, Iceland has experienced a great revolution in microspheres over the last decade, and I think it's very good, it's increased the diversity of Icelandic living things. I believe, however, that there is reason to be interested in the small producers if the bill is approved, for if this change goes through them the producers would themselves have to put their lips in stores. [[The president calls.]] That's what big brews, the albums, Vifilfells, are all about it, but I'm afraid the little parties would just never be able to handle it. I'd love to hear a vision. It belongs to a senator, for it truly is part of freedom of choice and freedom of business. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u103	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir later answers. First to free business. There was a very interesting review of the fact that I recall Steinger's rocking house as to the increased potential in the bill for tourists and even open to them directly from local ideals. I think we'd have opportunities all over the country. This is a very interesting review, and they were actually at the business viewpoints and the idea of freedom is in favor of the bill. I see a lot of opportunities in it. We have an excellent pioneers in this area that strengthens tourism, not just a question. I agree with what. That's what a senator does. For the studies that have been cited for the changed sales system and for the purpose of moving from monopoly into a personal arrangement, there is for the development of a study in Finland since 1969. What has changed since then? The World Health Organization points out that the impact on prices is twice as high as the bioavailability, and the sales system is just one isolated part of the limit of access. We need to take all this information and put it in some context before we agree on it and apply it to our society. In Sweden, advertising laws changed along the way and reduced prices like elsewhere to follow the European Union. Of course, that makes a difference. Is this statement taken into consideration by the increase in prosperity in Finland during those decades? No. All I ask is to put this into some context before we begin to state something about an Icelandic community. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u104	Madam President. It is a pleasure to have an opportunity to discuss this matter because it has been on the program since I sat here, though with certain variations since 2007, and there has always been something that has caused me to say about it. I don't think it's the first time I've brought up the matter of changing the arrangement of the government's private sales on alcohol. So I will make good use of my time here, these 15 minutes, on this matter. Nevertheless, the case is of the nature, so I say it here in the beginning, that many of the people I meet in the community find it remarkable that the Council puts it first in his program. There are strikes that have a debilitating effect on school, health care, as well as the government's drinking business, but we're here to discuss this one more trip. When you walk over the East Field, on the way from the office here and back, there are many who wonder that this case has the same priority for the Generals program as it did. That's right. There's a principle here, and there's two things I think I have time to account for. These include public health issues, which have been very prominent in their debates. Councilmen who have spoken against the bill and, on the other hand, a fundamental principle of freedom, freedom of the individual, and the way we handle our affairs in the community. Those who support this matter and recommend it often view it as the message of freedom. For example, the leader of the Independence Party has spoken of increased freedoms. I think it's important that we put it down. For example, if we consider what a philosophical professor Róbert H. Haraldsson writes, it is difficult to claim that this issue revolves around the individual's freedom. This issue is certainly about freedom of business, freedom of commerce, which has been a matter of long - term policy for the Independence Party, but it does not stand to believe that it would impair the individual freedom of citizens in this country that they have to work harder to buy alcohol, by attending special liquor stores, but traditional consumers. Róbert H. Haraldsson has done it well in his articles, and he notes, among other things, that liberal communities are building limits on shops and especially on alcohol. There is no convincing evidence that the present order of events involves a loss of individual freedom. That question has not been answered. True, this can be supported by reasoning on the matter of free shopping, but it is not the same as freedom of an individual. I think it's very important that we take that basic question and tore it here when we discuss this matter. We also know that today's commercial drinking program here is not particularly old - fashioned. This arrangement, for example, is against people in some states of the United States, or other states. The same can be said of Canada. We have the same arrangement in Norway as in Sweden, which is generally highly measured by communities as we measure quality of life, prosperity and general success, competitiveness. Yet, these communities have private sales of alcohol. Why have they had a private sale on alcohol? Because alcohol is no ordinary consumer product. And that's where we come to the public health agenda. This has been a testimony to the fact that change in this arrangement will not necessarily affect human health, even old reports that show changes in social practices. But no further search is required than in the PSUR of alcoholic beverages - where you can find research reports on alcohol consumption, the pattern of alcohol consumption, the effects of alcohol consumption on individuals and communities, the effects of changes in the alcohol trade system, and the practical measures to reduce or control the harmful effects of alcohol - to see that the availability of alcohol is very important when it comes to consumption. Then I'm not talking about it, as the followers of this bill have noted, that there is certainly a lot of access to alcohol in the liquor stores, alcohol and tobacco stores of the state. But by keeping this arrangement out of the common consumer goods, the lawgiver is drawing a line and saying, no one can contradict: Alcoholics use specific laws. This is not a regular consumer product. Or do we? Do we feel that alcohol is a common consumer product? If we look at the harmful effects of alcohol, it is unconvinced. So I finish what's said in these recent research reports, it says that changing the drug trade of alcohol, privateizing alcohol sales, and moving them to grocery stores will increase the consumption rate. For example, these reports from 2012, 2009, 2010, have been carried out in Sweden, where there are these issues because of the same arrangements as here, but we also have reports from the United States that indicate the same. A paper with the bill indicates that it will recover, and that it will also be predicted there. What do we have in mind? I haven't found out what this bill's transport is all about. We cannot ignore the fact that increasing alcohol consumption results in a marked increase in the effect of the same alcohol consumption. This is not like bread, milk, or bananas or anything we buy at grocery stores. Most of us find it normal to have special rules when it comes to selling medicine. Or don't we? Do we think it should be in grocery stores? Where are we going to draw the line? Here Britain was mentioned earlier, but the British have taken several steps in recent years. In 2012, the number of alcohol sales sales in England and Wales had increased to over 51,000, and 220,000 are added to places authorised to sell alcohol for consumption. This is the development of Britain in the last decade. An enormous increase in alcohol sales facilities. This is what remains there. It now speaks of an epidemic of alcohol. There is an epidemic of alcohol in Britain. A panel of members from all groups has now been established that are to be proposed. 1.2 million British people are admitted to hospitals for alcohol consumption each year. Are we going to pay it with this increase in alcohol? Is it not better to stop this harm just instead of paying it afterwards? Every hour, one British person dies from alcohol abuse, and the liver disease is the only major disease the British have not mastered. In the past ten years, there has been an 112% increase in liver disease in young people, in the past decade. These are striking numbers, and this is directly related to the increase in drug sales on alcohol. Are we here at the General Assembly ready to take that step - under the pretext that we are increasing freedom, not to the individual, but to the store - to cause this social damage? Now it may be that we have a basic disagreement about whether society should run public health policy. I'm sure there are some of them. Councilmen, and I respect that, which doesn't feel it's the role of the public to have public health policy. Yet, we do know that it is the responsibility of the government to render service to the weak, is it not? Therefore it is not strange for me to say that the things which are revealed should have publicism. There I agree with the government, which has established a special Ministry Committee on Public Health. At the same time, there is a transformation that all research and evidence suggest will increase alcohol consumption, and most studies also indicate that increasing consumption will have a significant impact on the health of the population. And this is to be done in the name of shopping freedom. Madam President. When we place the evidence on the scales and weigh the weight of these matters, I don't think it would weigh enough as an argument to increase the level of commerce and possibly increase the risk. Here people have mentioned that prices can also control alcohol, and no doubt they are, but then I have to choose to examine the data presented by our public health and medical institutions. As we deal with the situation here, the General, the general politics, have just been criticized for making decisions without listening to professional people. The fact that politicians have made decisions without listening to professionals, even ignoring their vision, is key in the General's 9 - volume study report. I think it's a thought for me, when we're here to discuss this matter, that there's been a lot of reviews. I've only got a few of them: the National Medical Center, Public Health, Iceland's Medical Association, Children's Agent, Children's Children's Institute of Health, Drug and Alcohol Administration, The Fault of Nurses. These are the people we trust. These are the professionals we trust in in our medical care to care for and protect the interests of our children. What are these professionals saying? What are the professionals saying, the professionals I listed here? It's against this bill. It violates the good argument that while people want to expand their business freedom, there is insufficient evidence to support the harmful effects that increase access to alcohol may involve. And they're looking to public health, health care is being watched, and social interests are being cared for. I think, Madam President, when we discuss this case here, we need to listen to it. We are here to examine the study reports and to ask ourselves if we feel that it is important enough to walk this way. Finally, I'd like to say something that happened here when we discussed this matter - but not I, some senators discussed the matter here during the previous council: At the same time, British psychiatrist David Nutt, who was conducting a major political issue here on the issue of delinquency of drugs, which is very important. Among other things, I support that our drug policy will be revised according to what the professor said. In view of his liberal attitude toward drug abuse, he was asked by an interview at the State Radio, whether or not we should be private drinkers, what he thought about it. What did David Nutt say? He strongly counseled the Icelanders to stick to their present arrangement, thus limiting the harmfulness of alcohol. However, he spoke to a liberal attitude in the way we handle drugs, that society supports those who have such problems rather than punish them. [[The president calls.]] He said: "The harmful things of the other one can become unconvincing. I think that's the professional we're also supposed to listen to, Madam President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u105	A respectable president. I'd like to make a brief comment to a comment at which point. A senator who called for a discussion on freedom issues in this relationship and made a great point of reference to the individual's freedom, as the advocates of this bill have claimed to be at stake here. It was pointed out in a talk given. A senator said that freedom of the business was not an individual's choice of freedom. To this I want to make a comment. How can it be possible to separate business freedom from individual freedoms? Now it is that in business we deal with two parties, two persons. I would like to hear an explanation of how a person's freedom can be overlooked when he or she speaks of the important freedom of business, but not above the individual's freedoms. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u106	Madam President. In one minute, freedom of individuals is primarily the right thing to do as long as it counts primarily to one. Freedom of business or freedom is a social activity. Shopping is a matter of community interest and social interaction. In that respect, it is justified to distinguish between individual freedoms, i.e. The freedom to do what concerns you personally, however, is affecting the interests of society. That's why we can't, neither me nor why. A senator who asks this question argues that the state of the United States or Sweden is not a liberal society, though they limit their freedom to shopping, that it necessarily affects the individual freedoms of those living there.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u107	A respectable president. Hv. A senator explained the matter quite well. That is why I am kept from understanding how to discuss this matter with such a distinction that she wants to have here on business freedom and individual freedom. Of course, freedom of business involves individual freedom. Freedom of individuals to do business, whether it is for buying - of course, I'm not talking about having any right to buy from a particular source, but the right to choose the business, as well as to own in business, to sell alcohol. Thus, freedom of business is absolutely out of the question. That's what this is all about. I think it is, in the highest terms, that I would give a talk about freedom in these matters in a way that would suggest freedom of the individual, not to the right of the individual, but to the freedom of the business. It's totally off-limits. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u108	Madam President. Hv. A senator seems to be in a mood for separating individual freedom from commercial freedom, although it is well - known within any technical discussion that makes a distinction. I think that's why. A senator needs to consider this. In my speech, I reasoned that it was very important to do so. The senators, we who ship the legislature here, listen to professionals. I now specifically referred to medical institutions and health - care providers. But when we discuss that the individual's freedom is the main reason for this matter, I also feel that it is acceptable to witness to the scholars who have discussed it, which point to this very distinction. Shopping freedom can affect society all, and for this it is often a practical argument and a sound argument. It's okay for me to know that we're discussing the reasoning issues. But I don't think this case is going to be a law, to increase the freedom of the individual in Iceland. We're gonna go for a second. A senator disagrees with that, but I do not believe that the language can be described as flat. A senator did. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u109	A respectable president. I'd like to step aside a little from philosophy because of it. A senator suggested that there should be no particular publicism above the head. I find it interesting because it combines the question of which part the State plays in securing health, etc. in the community and in the rest of the world, to control what people can do. I believe we finance health and prevention and that with tax money, not with freedom. That seems to be the only link I've ever seen between so-called left-to-be custody, i.e. that as soon as the state is paying for it somehow, it has the right to limit behavior in order to save the tax money to the state. I wonder what. A senator has something to say about these comments.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u110	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. Of course, we make certain rules as a community so that things will work out in some way. For example, we have traffic regulations to reduce damage. When it comes to drinking alcohol, and we want to talk about how best we manage to harm them, those whom I mentioned earlier and who work in the health - care service are talking about access to alcohol, since it's not like other consumers, it's a way to reduce the damage caused by alcohol. It's a lot of toy, of course. There are various studies on this matter and there are other factors that may affect bioavailability. Hv. A senator really asks if I believe that the cost of such damage to the tax system was highest. That's at least one argument in the matter, but I also feel that we should look at it more clearly, i.e. Based on public health policies and how we can run public health policy, if we want it, and what will be the most likely success in this subject. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u111	A respectable president. The difference between drinking and traffic regulations may be mainly that traffic regulations are primarily designed to protect people from harm caused by other people. When handling vehicles, you are automatically responsible for the life and limb of other people. When it comes to public health issues related to alcohol, i.e. cirrhosis and disease caused by alcohol, I see differences in nature. There is a difference between protecting someone and protecting someone from other individuals. That's why I'm wondering. The cost of public health means that it automatically becomes the State's responsibility to protect each person's health, regardless of what they think. That's the connection I'm rolling up here. I drink alcohol. To enjoy only with alcohol, I make a conscious decision to walk in my health. That's my decision. I don't need any help making that decision. I don't think there's anything about the government or anyone else, just because others pay taxes to finance the health system.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u112	Madam President. First of all, what's the problem? Of course, a senator is fully free to drink alcohol, as the situation is today, so this bill does not change everything about freedom. A senator to drink my drink or my freedom, if that is the case. [[Take it up: blessed.]] On the other hand, with regard to the damage we do not only harm ourselves, it is also about the social harm of alcohol, which includes the reviews of Children's Institutes of Children's Health, the Children's Agent, the Association of Alcohol and Drug Administration. In our small community, we know the damage. In terms of the power to harm yourself and what it means to harm others and harm themselves, I think there is the possibility that alcohol consumption can cause a lot of social damage, of course not always but by abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u113	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter for a fine speech. I have to say, "What?" A senator entered many variables I called on in my speech, and that was well. Hv. A member of the U.S. council found that many approached him and wondered how this matter was first, and it has also been heard from the platform here that it is not all important enough to be on the program of an honorable president. I'd like to ask you what. A senator with her opinion of keeping the matter on the agenda. I put it in context to that. A senator made it clear that this is a public health policy and a means of saving. Let us say that the savings would be for the first year of 8 billion, followed by 3 billion years, and then we will take up all the discussion about the importance of public health toward this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u114	Madam President. As for the convention program, I was primarily throwing out views I've heard. In itself, it is just a matter of release by the president what he puts on the program of the council. But the reason I mentioned it is, of course, that this case has often been on the previous schedule and sometimes under peculiar circumstances, such as we were here in January 2009. This is a matter that seems to have a symbolic meaning in people's minds, and that was the reason for these words in the beginning without my putting out on something special that the matter was on the program for the council. With regard to the potential benefits, we can say, the increase in alcohol consumption as a matter of course. A senator refers to them, we have to watch what I think is about increasing consumption, which I believe is an increasing number of sale sites, and I think I have read enough reports about it, causing damage that will not necessarily be improved by money. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u115	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with all of this because it sounds like nothing more than an extreme, and when we say that we're dealing with burning wine in a camp while people are fighting for better terms. Absolutely agree. I just wanted to say this because it also comes from a symposium that it is about a lot of money and money, which is a requirement for us, and on the other hand, it's a big public health, huge. Alcohol is one of the three major threats to human health, with obesity and tobacco. That's why I think the discussion is just good. Another focus on public health is the limit to bioavailability. The age, the time of sale, and the date of sale may be limited. We can see this, for example, in Norway, where only in good taste is over the cool, that doesn't bother anyone who can't sell any more, etc. [[The president calls.]] In case of a moment. A senator could answer if it's all alone... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u116	Madam President. We now get very poetic here in a pen, but, of course, one minute is not enough to review these arguments. In itself, I rejoice that this discussion will receive a certain amount of time because it is large questions about public health, access and what aspects of it are gained. Certainly, as I have now come to the fore for increased exposure here, bioavailability can be limited by ways other than having few sale sites. Of course, this is done in many ways. Of course, this is already done by age and by means of others, and this is done in many ways in which the arrangement is different from here, in some other way. Still, what I feel is striking out from these studies that we have been able to study as we speak on this subject, there is a lot of sales, and there is also much about what we really do about what we do about it when we watch alcohol in the presence of other consumers. I mentioned bread and cheese earlier. [[The president calls.]] Then there is a change in the nature of the product in our mind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u117	A respectable president. It is hard to find out in a speech in which opposers of this bill are remarkably diligent at the subject, which is very interesting in the case of Congress. I've made this statement before, and it was no way for a senator to enter it, so I don't think it's because they're interested in the topic of conversation that the senators speak so much, but it's different. I have to admit that when I listen to these talks, I just drop out, it's so convincing all of it, but then I remember that we live in the world of mankind. I live here. I've lived in Iceland and lived for nearly half a century. I want to ask you why. A senator who has a request. What is the appropriate bioavailability? When I was growing up, the situation was like this, and maybe it's a dream situation, that nobody in Iceland got to buy alcohol without pointing over a table. In the country, only a paper bag was provided with alcohol, and it came with the bus. [[The president calls.]] Was that a request? Or how does it want to be? A senator sees this if she wants to limit access to alcohol?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u118	Madam President. I'd like to say first, "What?" Since a senator was informing about this in a talk chair, he is acting in a harsh half century. [[Thank you.]] I reviewed this in my talk, which is the first talk I will discuss during my entire session, even though it was scheduled several times. I'm starting a discussion about these matters. I have found many of the talks given here, both by followers and by opponents of this bill, to be very objective, and to touch basics. I think this will give us an opportunity to deal with the tactics we want to use when it comes to public health and to deal with the challenges of business or business rights when we make major decisions. I think the Icelanders are pretty comfortable with the current arrangements. I've lived in the same country almost 40 years before. A senator and has seen only that the Icelanders are quite at peace with the present - day arrangement. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u119	A respectable president. Thank you for the warm words to me, and I'd like to say what I'm saying. The senator of Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, is certainly doing his best for a few years. But we are not just here to flatter each other. Why is this acceptable now? If people really believe that the reduced bioavailability is good, are we content with a steady increase in bioavailability? It can't be. Even in Grafarvogur, we get a government store soon. [[Up front.]] We're getting a government store. [[Up front.]] We've been reassigned, much less. Of course, this is not possible if we believe that having a reduced bioavailability is important, we must stop it. And it's open late, even on Saturdays. A respectable president. If we believe that a reduced bioavailability is the case, we need to board up the sleeves and really take the steps and go back to the old times when there was not only any way to buy alcohol without hard work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u120	Mr. President. As I came to see earlier, there are certain variations in selling alcohol specifically or putting it in a grocery store, for we are thinking of putting this product on the same booth as traditional foods. I think there's something we can't overlook. It has a different effect on the bioavailability of people to drink, and makes them more automatically, as the bill shows that consumption is likely to increase. Because this has been done, where alcohol sales have been increased, and I studied it in my talk, e.g. In Britain, with significant increase in sales sales, consumption has increased greatly. It refers to an epidemic of alcohol. If we took this matter through here and watched that alcohol would go to any grocery store, alcohol sales would increase more on one board in Iceland than in 50 years in Britain. [[The president calls.]] How are we going to deal with the consequences, Madam President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u121	V.E.G. President. First, I want to rejoice. paritaprevir For example, Guðlaugur told Þór Thor Þórðarson that he no longer has to order alcohol for him in the Grafarvog. Many interesting points have been made in this discussion today. There is still talk that bioavailability does not control consumption. It's simply wrong. In Iceland, because the increase in alcohol consumption from 1988 to dato's day is very low from the ATVR wine camp, according to national surgeon reports, there is an increased bioavailability of eastern fields. It's mostly in restaurants that have grown big around here. There was also an excellent statement earlier that alcohol abuse was simply on the part of those who drank but none around them, not on the third party. That claim is false. I would like to read this very brief article from the review of the Children's Choice, which says in a letter to the General of November 5, 2014, by permission of the Supreme Court. President: It has been shown by studies to increase the bioavailability of alcohol leading to increased alcohol consumption. Increased alcohol consumption is likely to adversely affect children's lives, not just children who are affected by their parents'alcoholic beverages or precursors, but also children and young people who are tempted to drink alcoholic beverages because of the easier availability. The use of alcohol on third party is clear. For example, it has been well documented by the surgeon general's office, by permission of a president: On average, European people consume twice as much alcohol as the average of the world. In Europe, alcohol abuse is high, 10% of premature disease due to alcohol consumption, 1 in 7 premature deaths are attributed to alcohol in men and 1 in 13 women. Iceland, Sweden, Norway, and Finland have the most stringent European legislation on drinking. There is a positive connection between strict alcohol control and a lower level of alcohol consumption. Freeness in the commercial world promotes drinking and harm from alcohol. So many were words. A report by the World Health Organization shows how the consumption is divided by maps. [[Senator shows the report.]] I know this doesn't show very well in the hall, but it can be seen here on a map where the darker colors are an example of where the most consumption is. The greatest consumption is in Europe, especially east, North America and Canada, and in Western Europe, including Denmark. Lightest spots in Europe, i.e. The minimum consumption per person, is in Iceland, Sweden, Finland and Norway. What do these countries have in common? They sell alcohol on government roads. This too is shown in this same report, on page 18. 71, the advice to reduce the harm caused by alcohol drinking is mainly to be published for the sale of alcohol, and preferably to include public drinkers, to keep a minimum or to monitor the number and location of the sales facilities that sell alcohol, to make a rule at a number of sales days and hours, to have a minimum age of those allowed to drink alcohol, and to set standards for drinking in public places. This is what we Icelanders have done. I have to admit that I have to recall that the carriers of this bill, which are groups of intelligent and upright men, can overlook all the comments that have appeared here, especially from health officials, that warn us not to accept this bill. I can't leave it after all that reading, from the surgeon of the country, the Icelandic Nurses' Medical Association, and the fact that they intend to accept this bill. It's completely hidden from me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u122	A respectable president. I am still listening to the reasons for doing what is being done in other countries. I'm asking why. A senator's question was exactly what I asked him. A senator who spoke before: What is appropriate access, and why? We all know that alcohol has special advantages, such as other products, so it has specific rules. On the other hand, if a person claims to want to maintain his present condition and then represents a reduced access, there is a weekend. We're gonna go for a second. Congress officials often travel abroad, where we live in the country after country, where alcohol is sold at grocery stores. Me and what. A senator even has no supervision in Europe, and he can go to the usual stores and buy us alcohol. Isn't that something we need to deal with? That's what we're going to get into, me and him. A senator, now traveling somewhat amongst them. because of our work, of going to Leifs son of Erik's Air Station, and where they can even be found. Privates would sell us liquor if we were to. In fact, all over the city, all over the country sells alcohol to private people. [[Step 4: This contributes to increased consumption.]] Hv. A senator insists that it contributes to increased consumption, so it is good to hear it from the mouth. A senator what he'd like to do in this terrible situation. Shouldn't we go back to the time we both remember when here was properly reduced bioavailability? Then we can also discuss the consequences of increasing the bioavailability. Of course, this was the perfect Kingdom of heaven decades ago when only alcohol could possibly be purchased with great value. Isn't that the right thing to remember? Senator?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u123	V.E.G. President. I'm very anxious to answer that question. Senator. Yes, there was heaven on earth. This was only between 3.5 and 3.7 litres of alcohol per person. She's 7 liters today. Why? Yes, because the bioavailability has increased greatly. Where? Over here on the other side of the Eastfield, including... Privates sell us alcohol, the increase in alcohol sales. The surgeon's data indicate only a small extent of NTVR. It lies elsewhere, first and last in the restaurants and in Leifs son of Erik's Air Station. But because of him. A senator mentioned our companions'travels - I have not traveled as much as he is from the council, but it's another story -- I'd like to point him out, because I know he often goes to America, that in a letter from the surgeon's office, he is quoted in summary, research reports on alcohol - a summary. It says, by permission of the president: In the United States, the provision of alcohol sales is considered and evaluated for the consequences of personalization on liquor sales. Conclusion: Every state in the United States puts some kind of alcohol damage on alcohol, such as taxation, restrictions on liquor traffic licenses,...•and so on. And he also says: (b) How do we know that Jehovah's Witnesses do not view alcohol as a free market? A government - controlled alcohol trade is more likely to keep shops in small areas. A controlled alcohol store consumes 13% of alcohol strengths and 7% of alcohol among 15 years of age and older. Privateisation of liquor stores increases alcohol consumption and its damaging effects, such as assaults, suicides, road accidents, hepatitis, and other diseases. The social cost of alcohol consumption has been estimated more than the government's earnings of valuable taxes, licenses, income taxes, transport costs, and remunerations. That's the situation, huh? A senator, whom I and others would like to prevent because the People's Health is natural number one. I'll catch up with you later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u124	A respectable president. First thing I want to do is thank you. A senator for the honesty in reply. He speaks for the condition that was here before. In fact, I remember the situation, and I don't think our drinking culture in Iceland was an export. I don't think anybody came down here and said, "There's a lot of good things going on in this nation, so let's just pick it up. But, hey. A senator is only honest in saying that the situation was amazing. I just disagree with him basically. I got it. I got it. To find out how successful we have been in prevention, the way we have used, which is called the Icelandic way. The use of alcohol and tobacco has been measured for decades, and it has also been specifically measured as to the most influential factors. They are, in effect, equals, parents as well as wholesome hobbies. What a goal it is to younger people every time to start drinking! The younger people want to drink alcohol. But I appreciate it. A senator for telling me exactly what his request is, but I urge people to examine the situation in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u125	V.E.G. President. Drinking's gotten better, says why. Senator. There's been no decrease in domestic violence. The number of violent crime has not been reduced, despite cultural drinking, as it were. A senator talks about it. Do I want to go back? Not necessarily. Actually, I turned the net out of my head. A senator, yet I said, "What did this trade arrangement mean in its own time? ' This meant that the drinks of alcohol per person per year were 3.53/4/3.7. There's 7 now. After the change suggested in the bill, all studies indicate that there will be 11 litres of pure alcohol per year, which is the same as in Denmark, the same as in Europe in general. And what did an article in Politiken say this summer? There the writer said that 20% of the population of Copenhagen did not like alcohol every day, and he was not talking about what we call alcoholics or people who are having problems with alcohol. [[The president calls.]] 20% of Copenhagen's population, 200 thousand people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u126	A respectable president. I have to admit, I'm gonna get a little confused about the gimmick. When it comes to talking about increased consumption, a member of the council asked for help. Hv. According to the surgeon's report, the increase in consumption is mainly due to an amusement park or restaurant, which has certainly increased substantially, but it also has branches in the ATVR. There I see a certain contradiction in a lawsuit. Senator. If it is not an increase in wine camps that causes increased consumption, but an increase in restaurants, it would not be easy to fight a new restaurant opening and allow this change to pass, because according to this argument and information from a surgeon and if I understand. A senator right is the restaurants and amusements that cause increased consumption? Also, I'd like to ask you which one. A senator whether he feels that drinking at a dance club is far more likely to result in violence or drunkenness than when people drink alcohol at home? Now I know well that alcohol affects third party, and if my previous claims have been on the way that alcohol cannot harm a third party, I certainly am not that religion. Yet, people have less reason to drive drunk from home to home than at a place of entertainment and home. It is less likely to get into a fight with other people who are also drunk, etc. But if increased consumption is the result of restaurants and entertainment, well. A senator does not assume that we should place restrictions on restaurants and dance clubs, even reducing them, making it harder for them to work, or the same?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u127	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator in particular for the question. According to a surgeon's review of the 1986 accompaniment of alcoholic beverages, 1988 was a total of 4.5 litres and 7.18 in 2014. In 1988, selling liters out of liquor camps was 4.88 liters, now 5.34. That tells us these two extras because of other routes of sale, such as restaurants. Do I want to restrict restaurant opening? This is a very good question because the British are standing before her right now. They let loose restaurants into the night and up until the morning a few years ago, and with what result? Britain's police were all weekend, drawing helpless people out of the street. This was shown in the news both in The Guardian and elsewhere. Who were the leading victims? There were young women. This is one of the findings in studies that suggests that if we accept this bill, the increase in consumption here is most likely to occur in women and young people. We are now blessed to have a small teen drink, a heavy drink of elders, which says, for example. in a recent Sami - help newscast for those who are now being treated at Hlísmarkot that the increase is greatest in younger people and women. This is what we can expect to become the key if we open our doors to an increase in alcohol sales.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u128	A respectable president. There is no disagreement on the fact that teen consumption has been intertwined, and blessedly very much, in the last 15 years. If more young people were seeking help from alcoholic beverages, I would be moved by a change in attitude toward alcohol abuse because that attitude has also changed. Now there is something called moderate and normal drinking while there was much more drinking in the old days. And to have lived in other communities where drinking patterns, culture, and sales arrangements are different from here, this is in line with my expectations of that experience. On the other hand, I find it strange. A senator thinks it was better in the old days, but he doesn't want to go there. He thinks it's a lot for the amusement parks and restaurants to teach, according to the surgeon's records, but he won't limit the number of them if I get it right. There are restrictions on opening. I can see that. But what is it about a lot of people? A senator limits a lot of restaurants and entertainments?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u129	V.E.G. President. Do I want to limit the number of dance places or restaurants? I don't see anything wrong with restricting the growth of restaurants if that is so that this information from a surgeon is correct. I don't see anything wrong with cutting their opening hours because I think it is absolutely proven that during the opening time of restaurants in Reykjavík five years ago, there was a terrible situation in the city center of the weekend. Foreign law enforcement officials brought here to counselees did not understand that the city of Reykjavík was not to be cleared by the police, i.e. People just snuck out of the downtown when things were worse for the morning on the weekend. True, in times past, we drank less and more at a time. It's not a major change, though, if you drink more and less at a time, as I said before. Family violence is similar, violent crime is similar. It hasn't changed in itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u130	Madam President. I think it's a very interesting and good discussion, because it's been asked if there's anything further to discuss. It is very important to consider opening times, a number of restaurants, and other items that have been discussed here. For our young people, things may be different today than before, unfortunately. Our young people are mixing substances, not just drinking, and taking many other substances, and we have to cope with the consequences of them in the system. So I would like to reflect on this with the candidate's access and use of the names of the Icelanders - I understand that it is not very strong when it comes to light and strong wines - and with what result to the various producers, the little producers among them. I've had the feeling that the big parties, the albums, Vifilfell, or what the names of the people who are in the market have the advantage today that even though the law was to be changed to these states, they would continue running the market and be able to direct the production to these big shops. And this would have exactly the same effect on the largest food chains we know, Hagah, and any more; they would control the price and the variety of goods. At markets in the country, which do not even receive certain foods that are for sale in larger locations, the dose would be quite different from that of the rest of the population.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u131	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. Yes, we are concerned because our young people are going into material other than alcohol, that is correct. The results of teen drinking are being achieved by a project adopted a few years ago called the drug - free Iceland of the year 2000 and have become a laughing matter for many later. It did not change that in 1998 or around it, we had excessive drinks of youth and cannabis among young people. The parents'watch then started, the parents'ride, the prevention - we still live with them because they are still in the same direction as they were in those years. That's why we're still doing what we're drinking about. According to all available research, this increase in sales places will primarily cause young people and women to be disturbed by the fact that we want to overdo the results we have achieved. In terms of the selection, I wholeheartedly agree. Senator. Here in my first speech, I said that if this bill became a law, we were switching from private sale to a singles' sale, and the next thing I know, those who hire all at the grocery market will be quite quick to the streamline selection, to their advantage, not to the consumers. Delivering these agents 25 billion wells each year will cause them to walk between the trunk and the head of the competition, which are very small businessmen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u132	Madam President. Thank you. The senator's answer. I agree with him when it comes to the prevention we've used so far, whether it's a parent's fee or something else. I've been worried about that, because the government is supposed to control and be on the lead to prevention of all odds, and unfortunately, all too much has been cut down during the past few years when it comes to the preemptive religions of high school. In those years, our young people are the most sensitive, and in school they would have to come for more education and more active conversation. Lately, too much has been cut down, so I think we need to consider trying to improve it. I think me and what. A senator agrees that this is actually a means of walking in a way that is suitable for profit, not for public health in the community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u133	V.E.G. President. I asked in my first talk: "Whose bill is this? They don't ask for it. 70% of them are against it. It is not those who have a drinking problem who ask for it. It is not the children, or the children's welfare, or the society of sociologists, nurses, or doctors - they are not the ones who ask for it. Who is interested in this? Yes, it's those who hire a little store in the country. They look forward to being delivered on a silver plate of 25 billion on top of what they are selling today, some 200 billion. If I were them, I would do it myself. It's only human. I wondered why this matter is being brought into the council, which is certainly not the will of the people, the people, who are certainly not wanting those who come to health care but who are the ones who run the department.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u134	A respectable president. I thank you for the fine discussions that have been about this blessed affair on autumn days. I figure it's 370 days since I was standing here in a pit and talking about it last year. There's a lot of conflicting opinions about something that's not unusual because it's a big deal, huge. The question is, Who is the source of the problem? Hv. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, who was here before me, wondered if the matter was being given to the public or if it was for anyone else. I don't know. This case was published by a General and Education Committee in March last year. I was alone on a committee party that I took care of on March 4, after four months of Congress. There was no case 2nd. and it caught a little bit of my attention. I wondered why it was. And if this is the priority of the Independence Party at the Fall Summit, why was it not done in spring, and why was it not put under pressure? I got caught on the General and Education Committee for the matter to get a walk out of a committee and it was my vote that made it leave the Committee. I mean, there's not a good thing about sleeping with committees. They're just supposed to come over and either stand or fall. It's just that way. I'm in nature very against this, very much against it, especially that alcohol goes into a supermarket and some junk. It has also been observed in the discussion that there has been an increase in sales, i.e. Restaurants. This may not be an abnormal trend in the light of increased tourism and other factors. I'm not necessarily impressed with this, but we have to meet demands and offer alcohol to be available, but it has also been found that by giving free alcohol free shops, alcohol sales would probably increase from 40 to 200. There's no slight increase and the alcohol is supposed to go into the grocery store. There's also been an entry into something that I think is quite remarkable, and it happened to me. The last speaker, that no one has been calling for this in the community. Who's calling for this? I never saw it in the campaign. I've just never heard people demand alcohol to go to grocery stores. It's just one person who wants him to go into the grocery store, it's so convenient to buy a sixer when you start buying milk for the children. It has also been shown that this is no ordinary product. A lot of what? Commenting on the consequences of excessive drinking, local and social health have been identified by members of the Governing Body, and they are spending enormous amounts of money. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. I don't think Iceland did enough research on the consequences of alcohol abuse and its costs, its diseases, accidents, suicides. What's the cost of this community in count? We are always thinking about money, but we especially need to ask how much the consequences are for society. The case was released from the Commission last March, and it would have seemed natural to me that it had been discussed here and granted and either approved or canceled. You see, I think that would have been a good thing to do, because there's no more to it at council. I also wondered because the matter has been offered many times but never got a walk at a council. Why not? I'd like to read my commission because I didn't get a chance to do it in spring and I can't get a chance to do it right now because I'm no longer in a full-scale and educational committee. It comes from my category of carriers of the bill, so I can't get a chance to do it, but I'm going to read this opinion: The bill suggests that the state's patent of alcohol alcohol alcohol and tobacco stores (ATVR) to a certain extent become free. The bill's report lists the benefits of selling alcohol with other consumer products, including Referring to the fact that using the approved bill, consumers can save some money from getting alcohol in the same place as groceries. It also points to general alcohol and legal consumption products such as e.g. tobacco and ammo, and that the arrangements for a small supply of alcohol have things in common with the arrangements for the sale of food. A smaller portion of credit is that alcohol is not a regular consumer product. Alcohol has great uniqueity and makes sense that the same standards as other products need to be met. The benefits of selling and producing alcohol are expensive to society. In particular, alcohol causes so much physical, mental, and social damage, first of all, physical toxicity, and third, addiction. That is why alcohol is no ordinary consumer food. Experience shows that there is a limit to the availability of alcohol to reduce alcohol consumption and alcohol related problems. A smaller section points to the EU report on the scope of the alcohol problem in Europe, published in 2006. It noted that Europe's inhabitants drink more than other continents and that the consequences are vastly greater than those of others. was referred to as the third leading cause of premature deaths in the European Union, second to tobacco and to high blood pressure. A smaller section also shows that children's interests in protecting against the harmful effects of alcohol should outweigh possible adult interests from being able to buy alcohol with other consumer products. The Icelandic government is obliged to take all appropriate measures, including legislators, in order to protect children from the harmful effects of alcohol and other substances, as well as those of others. Thirty-three. the United Nations Children's Covenant, now a part of the law Another small part of it suggests that measures that increase the availability of alcohol may affect the health of citizens of the country to a shorter or longer time, with the resulting increase in community costs. Clearly, if the bill becomes law, sales sales will increase from 49 to 200. This will lead to a large bioavailability of alcohol that returns to an increase in alcohol consumption. A less recent point shows that in most countries, who can buy and who can sell alcohol is limited. Such limitations are based on social vision, which attracts health, security, and general order. Experience further shows that restrictions on access to alcohol can reduce alcohol consumption and alcohol - related problems, while access is a matter of how easy alcohol is to get and consume. A smaller section indicates that hydrophilic studies and bioavailability of alcohol, e.g. has shown that short-term pay period and reduced sales and sales markets are kept in hand with reduced consumption and damage. A smaller section of this points to the introduction of the World Health Organization (WHO) in May, published by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 2014 - a report on the health effects of alcohol on the 194 countries of the world, including the World Health Organization (WHO). as a result of alcohol abuse, more than 5% of the world's ills and accidents are attributable to alcohol. A smaller section of credit that the bill is accepted will increase alcohol consumption as alcohol is handled according to standard non-testary consumption products. It would be better for them to be in special stores where free drinking was sold at grocery stores, there would be no progress for the nation. A smaller section also points to the government's policies on alcohol and alcohol abuse until 2020, published in December 2013. That's where even the two of them come from. to reduce harmful effects and problems with alcohol and other alcohol abuse is to limit access to alcohol. A lower portion of the claim that the bill is contrary to the main goals of policy, which are more thought - provoking. Because alcohol is not an ordinary consumer of the public's right to be well - thought - out, hard - working, and careful about changing access to alcohol. A lower section shows that the cost of drinking is low compared to the cost of alcohol consumption. Another smaller section takes the main policy under the review of more part of the Economic and Business Committee than it does. it is obvious that alcohol is late for important consumption, and it is clear that more sales are more likely to increase consumption. Whether the sales are free or not, the nature of alcohol and alcohol abuse matters. Another smaller section feels that the State is not the job of running stores. He agrees with the bill's central theme that the government store of alcohol will be canceled. However, smaller items cannot support the plans for alcohol to be sold in grocery stores. Rather, it is important that alcohol remains in special stores, as it has been. Also, section 2 reduces the importance of alcohol exchange, public health measures, and drinking policy markets aimed at limiting alcohol consumption. So many were words. But now I had the opportunity to read this committee opinion. I'd like to point out one of the last points, which is that I'm not necessarily the state's supposed to be selling alcohol. I can imagine it at special stores, not in supermarkets, and not in supermarkets, simply because of all the research that has shown that it makes the consumption enormous. And I don't necessarily have to go through it, it's been through in a lot of speeches that the consumption of drugs goes up by amazing numbers. It was also pointed out that alcohol was in 1988 if I recall just 4.5 or 4.7 liters per person before the beer arrived, but it is up to about 7 gallons [7 L], so the beer just went to the top. I can say that alcohol culture in Iceland has only changed since the beer was allowed, but the consumption has increased. In recent years, I have also noticed that while alcohol is not involved, people are driving more and more under the influence of alcohol. You look up at almost every day that people are driving under the influence of alcohol, coming out of the pub, and going up in the car and driving, leading us to the lack of financial resources in the country. I hope this case gets paid off, and we finish it and we make it work. Like other members of Congress, I have mentioned handling the matter at national pay because it's a big matter, too, because you hear in society that people don't necessarily have to make the changes proposed in the bill, that they are pleased with the service they are now. Hv. paritaprevir Gudgle Þór Þórðarson mentioned earlier what it was like back in the day. It was just a bunch of good things east of the arms, a man just ordered his grave, got her back in the barn, super-cool, didn't have to go anywhere. You just took the phone and called me. I'm not necessarily saying things are supposed to go to that end, but I think that when we discuss so much of a case that's so much out there with research around the world, it's going to cost a lot of money and disaster, we'll have to be very careful. We have to try and wonder, who are the ones who drink 80% of the liquor sold? Who are they? Those who drink 80% of what is sold from alcohol are people who have problems with alcohol. It's the alcoholics. That's the target group. It's the weakest people that's the target group for alcohol. Those who do not have problems with alcohol, which are 80% of the population, do not drink unless they are 15◯20% and know wine to go and do not have any problems getting it, but the target group is the weakest people who will have a much better chance of getting alcohol than before. I saw it when I lived in Denmark. The women who were hatching at Algi and the camp at the corner to buy cheap wine in the squares, that's the people to whom the marketing is directed, that's the people they're trying to get, e.g. The supermarket. It was noted earlier that the people who are going to make the most money are the supermarkets, the big business chains that get the alcohol into their shops. I was wondering where the alcohol should be in Netto, Grindavík. What is to be sacrificed from the store? Maybe it's the fruit plan. It may sell more alcohol than fruit. I also wondered about the workers' wells at these stores, which are all over the country, they're more and less kids doing the shop, 15◯16-year-olds who are in school, working extra work at a grocery store. It would be interesting to see how this is achieved because it is not now a prize to kill the people working in those stores. That is why young people work there because there is no reward. I'm just saying number one, two and three, why don't we get together when it's on the other side? And I'm saying, "What?" paritaprevir Þorsteinn Sæmundsson, I don't understand why this case is presented. Even though I respect the transporters and respect their views, I will still say, " I don't understand why they present the matter in the light of all the information that has been presented, and all the reports from the health authorities and those involved in these matters. ' I don't understand why they put it above their heads, especially because there's no one calling for this, not any man.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u135	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. People here normally speak a lot against alcohol abuse. A respectable president. For example, if we look at the figures of violence and other factors, we cannot tell whether alcohol stores have increased, and crime has increased as a result of the operation on the U.S. Marshal's Web. However, we can see that drug abuse is increasing dramatically. The bioavailability of narcotics is forbidden in Iceland. How can it be? A senator explained this? That's where we have this dream position. You agree that drugs are harmful and illegal, but the number of drug abuses is increasing. In fact, the number of alcoholic beverages in recent years has been greatly reduced, but at the same time, there has been an increase in the number of drug sales at the TVR.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u136	V.E.G. President. I can't quite figure out the question.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u137	Drug abuse.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u138	- Yes, drugs are illegal. I also wondered, " Why don't we just forbid alcohol? ' [[Foreground on: Yes.]] Why not? It wouldn't be a little good. Many things would change. But for some reason we do not want it. As mentioned earlier in a talk that Professor David Nutt from Britain had been appointed by the British government to deal with drug abuse and what harm they might have had on society, but he found that the harmful effects of drug abuse were negligible in Britain, whereas alcohol consumption was destroying everything. When he arrived with this conclusion to the British government, he was thrown out of work because it was contrary to the interests of the British and, in particular, Scottish alcohol manufacturers. This was not the result they wanted. But drugs, we need to take a good look at how we are going to handle these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u139	A respectable president. I have to admit, I just have to digest that answer. Senator. I like it. A senator says that drugs are to be legalized; at least we need to examine them. [[Up front.]] He may be able to explain it a little better. What I'm saying is this: We can totally agree that we don't want to drink teenagers, we don't want to abuse alcohol. Hv. A senator considered only how this was before when we really reduced access to alcohol, but it wasn't a problem then approaching alcohol. Certainly, it was not such a respectable president that our drinking culture was exemplary when we applied theoretic idea of compromising the availability. That's a long road away. Now, it's just that a respectable president, the Icelanders, they don't go to any other country, they're reassigned to other countries. They can do this in another way. They include alcohol at grocery stores. [[The president calls.]] But we can totally control this, as we have so many times, and therefore only allowed alcohol to be sold at that store two hours a day, if we want to, if we believe it's going to be effective. [[The president calls.]] But argument by reason. A senator can't resist. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u140	It may well fail. I don't care about that at all. [[Up front.]] Regarding access in other countries and other countries, I have lived abroad myself and have completely figured out the effect of unlimited access to alcohol. It's been over here today. You must have listened to all this. What are other European nations doing today? What are they doing? They are limiting the bioavailability of alcohol because of the disintegration of communities. In Britain, drinking alcohol is killing the health system. That's what the wise health minister says. The most common cause of death among young men in Scotland is alcohol consumption. It's just that way. You can shake your head over it, but this is just a fact. Alcohol consumption kills 3.3 million people a year. It causes 200 diseases. These are all facts. We have had excellent results against teenage drinking and other things, but we are going to overdo it in order to protect the interests of large parties. [[No.]] You cannot resist the temptations of power. That's what's wrong. [[Open the door, hear, hear!]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u141	A respectable president. It may well be that we disagree on this matter, me and the other. A senator, who is in a state of state to insist on this in the event of an emergency. A senator cannot argue that someone is subject to authority when we are arguing with the case we believe is an improvement. I hope so. In another way, a senator will take the discussion in the near future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u142	You too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u143	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a very good speech. He knows a lot about these matters. I just want to introduce to my children what is involved and the consequences of the increased alcohol consumption of parents are the result of an increase in alcohol availability. I am here under the authority of children in the material that brings down a number of negative effects on the lives of children whose increasing consumption of alcohol has; the likelihood of neglect, violence, accidents, traffic accidents, and other accidents; these are the negative effects of alcohol on the physical and mental health of people and can cause disease. Now, I've been talking about, and again I quote Dr. Kári Stefánsson in the morning broadcast on VOLV, that it is extremely important to keep young people from drinking until late 20 years of age to reduce the possibility of alcohol abuse or alcoholism. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to hear some attitude. It's the senator's.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u144	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that answer. I think it is very important to keep children away from alcohol for as long as possible. It's a preemptive. There's one good thing about this bill, and there's an increase in alcohol charge from 1% to 5%. It's very positive if I'd wanted to see it much higher. I'd like to see 50 percent go on prevention and public health in Iceland and especially on children and the around them, children and prevention. I also listened to Kári only this morning, and I completely agree with him that this is not the least of all the research that has been pointed out here. It is a very serious matter to plan to increase the availability of alcohol. I'm speechless that this case is being brought forward in view of its failure to succeed, that has never been established in the council, and that it did not have any success in our course. They could have - even if only to provide information on the cost of society and especially children. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u145	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I liked it when it rained. A senator in his speech made it clear that there is being a direct market for the weakest groups, for it is the risk taken if alcohol is allowed to flow into all the stores of the country, the availability of the weakest groups, that alcohol becomes much more than it would otherwise be. For example, a parents'organization against alcohol advertisements has voiced and warned against this bill. I'd like to hear some attitude. A senator and whether he feels pressured to allow alcohol advertising to go up a lot. We know it's forbidden today, but people have been around it. Counts 'em out. A senator did not say that this great demand for greater material prosperity is, in fact, the point of all this and that he may be letting himself be taken lightly by others? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u146	President. Yeah, I think that's what I'm saying. It would not take long before the pressure from the big store was allowed to promote alcohol. Now it's actually that we have access to advertising, e.g. in foreign magazines and elsewhere, and alcohol is already being advertised, only dodgy is said to be a substitute for beer, and so it goes by the rules. It's an enormously strong group that has some control over society that would make it hard for a long time before a bill of free alcohol advertisements would come. I have to watch out for what I'm saying here, so I'm not accusing people of something, but I'm saying that politicians are primarily supposed to have public interests in mind when they make bills and whether there's something good for the nation and not being influenced by something else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u147	A respectable president. This, in fact, is the second time I live under what a woman and part - time homemate are especially drawn into this discussion for being at risk and exposed to the alcohol problem. I cut it down in my speech anyway. Senator. He specifically mentioned the women in Spain who were versed in Algi. But I didn't mean to make it a subject here, but I listened attentively to a talk. A senator on the General and Education Committee who is involved in this case. I have to say, he doesn't feel safe at all. I was glad to hear him mention, though, that the government's personal dealership on alcohol was not such a sacred matter to him. I wanted to ask him if I was wrong and if there was something in the bill that he was worried about, and the sale at the grocery store in particular. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u148	President. I thank the senator for the answer. I'm not on the General and Education Committee any more, I'm on the welfare board, and I've been tracking this matter for a long time. Actually, I haven't read the bill in the fall months, but I did it last winter. As the committee mentioned, I'm not against the fact that it's in special stores. I want this to be in special stores, but I just want it to be from a alcoholic who's only carrying this one product, that he can offer alcohol, but he doesn't go into the grocery store. Now I just have to admit that I don't quite understand the question, if she would say it again and explain it because I couldn't quite figure out what she was talking about. In what I was going to talk about in spring, I was completely overlooked that I am not necessarily the State's supposed to sell alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u149	A respectable president. That's exactly what I asked. It was nice to have confirmation that the state isolation store, which is not the kind of bite bone here on the part of your head. Senator. It's a pleasure to hear. Opposite groups, then, may have some way to approach them. I'm just calling it up because it's in the 22nd. The bill, which in terms of the change in alcohol law, is published conditions set out by the local government for the granting of a retail license, including conditions such as the location of shopping, access, markings, etc. That's why I'm asking. For example, a senator would be willing to apply himself to it or to accept some sort of conclusion that would include the fact that the bioavailability would be limited to a reserved item at a grocery store or even just outside a grocery store.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u150	V.E.G. President. I appreciate that answer. If I had to do some heavy drinking business, I would use myself in another way. I've explained very clearly why I don't want alcohol in the grocery store. It's just because I think it's going to increase the consumption rate and especially in the most vulnerable group. This has been demonstrated. I related it earlier and quoted David Nutt, who held a very interesting lecture in Iceland last year, where he discussed this subject, and then I received final confirmation. I wasn't against it in the past. I drank like a pig. I didn't mind. Over the years, you have come to realize that this is a very serious matter and that the consequences are disastrous. But I say, because of the communities, making rules about how this should be, as you ask--I know that all the country is just next to the grocery store, it's not inside them. My main motto is, not into grocery stores with liquor stores.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u151	It's directed to the president. The senator is addressing other members of the body of elders. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u152	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for a very serious discussion here on this matter. I've been drinking alcohol all the time and I haven't been legally legal, e.g. in Iran, where alcohol consumption is strictly forbidden and executed. Also, when I was younger than 20 years old, it was no problem for me to approach alcohol. Often it was just through a beer store. I understand there's three thousand men standing on the ground. a book of money where you can order a beer. What do you think? A senator about that? The black market for alcohol is enormously high in this country and has been forever. It's what it is. A senator that by getting a liquor deal into private business, black markets will be reduced? Or will it even increase? I want a vision. It belongs to a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u153	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I have to admit that I had no idea that there was a black market crack with beer on Facebook, but it doesn't surprise me at all. It's just like so many other things around here. But if an alcoholic entered the grocery store, would he not increase or decrease the number of black markets? I just don't know. But I'm absolutely certain that if you go into the grocery store, alcohol consumption will just increase and improve on top of it, that doesn't change black markets. If they're in some black market, they're in it. I don't think it'll change anything about black markets, even if the liquor dealers go into public stores. But I'm quite sure, and it's happened before, that it'll increase the alcohol consumption over its head. It will be just as when the beer was allowed, he would just drink on top of the premium. The conference's speeches have shown that alcohol consumption will even increase to 11 liters per year if alcohol is taken into public stores. I don't like that number. As for the rest, I just can't answer that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u154	A respectable president. Thanks for the answer. Now, when beer was allowed, the natural consumption of alcohol increased to a degree, but the consumption of heavy drinks also fell apart, didn't it? At any rate, I know that when I wasn't allowed to buy alcohol, it was more than enough to buy only strong alcohol, because it gets into one bottle, vodka or rum or something like that, a land or a sprout that can be bought by a variety of salesmen wide and wide around the country under the table, and I don't know what or what. Is it not healthy, then, to have a better access to wine than to strong wine? When it comes to drinking alcoholic beverages, is it not really a bit of a fatal bone? Because this light wine, beer, can be very sick. In some countries, e.g. Germany and Poland, so I don't name Russia, beer is not necessarily classified as an alcoholic drink because alcohol is so low.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u155	V.E.G. President. I think the bioavailability of light wine is just fine in Iceland. I've never seen anything else. People I know have no problem buying white wine and red wine at a liquor store, which, for example, is right in my place. I don't think we have to do anything to increase access to it, just nothing. In contrast, I think we need to do something more to reduce drinking. That's my opinion. But I've been happy with the arrangement as it is because people haven't been calling for anything or anything more. This has not been the subject of the discussion. The government never put it in its policy declaration that she would give it freely but that it would increase public health and prevention and limit access to alcohol. It is clearly stated in the government's drinking policy as the highest. A minister of health, Júlíusson Þór, an independent man, submitted. I just have to admit that I come from the mountains in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u156	V.E.G. President. We here discuss a bill to legalize the exchange of verses with alcohol and tobacco, the laws on the extra income of state funds, alcohol laws, and the price of alcohol and tobacco, with subsequent changes (spots of alcohol). As mentioned in my first talk, I am totally opposed to the bill on this subject. It hasn't changed between the conversations I've been having. In recent years, there have been important frontal work in Iceland, including parental sales and various educational programs that have been within youth centers, in schools and in homes and schools. This has helped us to see that several numbers of young people who drink have been severely suppressed. It's a pleasure. It is my wish that we can keep these minute facts and the reality that we now face. Some who are following the bill point out that as wine camps have increased, so there has been a decrease in teenage drinking. The bill shows that the number of wine camps in the last 39 to 49 years has increased. It is worth recognizable that it has been given quite a lot of work to do in advance at the same time. People are always getting more aware of the value of talking about things. Now I can't remember exactly, but the Vienna itself has been very prominent in social responsibilities and has had a very clear policy on social responsibility and has been rewarded for it as a model company. It has a preemptive policy of giving identification to all, followed by dark surveillance, dark visits, by members of the patrol without inviting them to observe if these rules are followed. The detailed facts there demonstrate that this is being applied within the company. It is very important that sales people, youth, home, school, and other people work together to prevent this. You're afraid that if one party falls from this chain, it will weaken the existing preemptive work. The bill says it's worth a guess that the reserve payments will rise from 1% to 5%. Then I'd like to read from the bill that says the money should go into a certain public health fund. In the C- team, 31. is, by permission of the president: A public health fund should give particular attention to preemptive activities in the field of alcohol prevention for the next two years after enforcing a law on changing commerce with alcohol and tobacco, the law on the extra income of state funds, alcohol laws, and the law on the price of alcohol and tobacco, with subsequent adjustments (spotents of alcohol). It doesn't know what happens after two years. Is this percentage increase from 1% up to 5% for two years alone, or is it future? In addition, some one and a half years ago I made a resolution to the council about one and a half years ago about increasing prevention in an effort to reduce the incidence of alcohol - controlled or substance - related drinking. It was adopted with 54 votes at the council, i.e. with much share, and the traffic law was to be entered, which was then being reviewed but has not been achieved. There's a stiffness in the system, if you just say just right now, about looking and going beyond those factors, and while they are, I can't, and I won't pay this bill my vote and also for the premium work. I was on a full-scale educational committee last year when a bill was overdivated on that committee and there was a lot to it and all the reviews as they go on and do when you sit on the council committees. It is really interesting to consider the reviews on the subject. I urge anyone interested in the case to look into the matter since last year when 60 reviews were received. They are completely divided into two parts, the majority of public health workers working within the health sector and working in the youth sector, directing research, and recruiting members from accepting the bill and, on the other hand, restitutions from traders and services that want us to accept the bill. I urge anyone interested in the bill to read these reviews. This points to many good research that is worth keeping in mind, and I mentioned my first talk on the subject. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u157	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for a good speech. She pointed to the fact that she had been greatly over the reviews when this issue was last discussed and said that a number of authorities, members, and others had strongly opposed this bill. Was there someone who works on public health or prevention that could be understood as increasing access to something better than what is now? Today, the health system in the country is affected by the consequences of alcohol abuse. I don't know if it's been measured or tried to figure out what it takes for the Icelandic government to deal with alcohol problems in one way or another in society, but there are probably very high numbers. Counts 'em out. A member of the U.S. Congress that shopping will ever come about taking the responsibility to live up to the health costs it brings by holding a private right of alcohol sales today and taking responsibility for the consequences? I feel that those who make this decision are making a big difference that this country's commerce can increase its yield. Should this be at the expense of our children, young people, and those who are weak toward alcohol?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u158	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. I don't remember reviews saying that there was someone working on health care, youth, or there on the side of the line that recommended that the bill be legal. However, all these parties, e.g. Children's population, the surgeon general, the Children's U.S. executive, to international studies suggesting that increased bioavailability results in increased consumption and a strong relationship between increased consumption and various social problems. Because of my work and my thinking, these are things that I'm really looking at. Others may disagree with me, and I disagree with others, but this was not shown in the comments of these individuals. I don't know, I have to tell you right now. We must look forward to the fact that Vienna is very early in these matters. It recognizes what kind of product they are selling, that there are no ordinary consumer products, and so it is very important to be on the outside. I don't know what's going to happen in the store, but I think it's very important to look at the research that juvenile society, health professionals, land surgeons, and others point to the correlation between increased bioavailability and increased consumption. I didn't get the last question, I have to admit it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u159	Mr. President. In the summer, when a national festival was held in the Western Islands, storekeepers planned to sell alcohol or beer at shops on the way from Reykjavík to the Pacific. Now we've got a what? A senator leaves the issue of preventing drivers from driving under the influence of alcohol because of the tragic consequences it may bring. How can you tell? A senator would have this if, I'm not going to say 'em, because I don't believe anything but that reason is finally in the matter, alcohol comes to stores, including bounties and road shows, and therefore drivers can buy beer in car hatches? The NTVR does not now have any hatches to drive by and buy one piece of beer in order to obtain access in any other way. For example, drivers could buy beer when they stopped at shops or shops or what we call it, whether it is in the capital area or in other parts of the country. Is there not yet another reason why this could lead to drinking while driving? I'll mention it as an example.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u160	V.E.G. President. Here we go. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir completely into one of the factors that I'm really looking at as far as this case goes. There were reports in the summer of a sale of beer in one of the shops on the way from Reykjavík to the country. Businessmen talked about not selling beer to the driver, but I don't understand how to monitor him. It's no problem driving the car anywhere. The reason I'm thinking about it is that we see too much of the number of people who sit under a wheel, who drink alcohol or other drugs. Unfortunately, it is. I'm very afraid of this, considering the number and tragic consequences for both the one leading to an accident and the one with an accident and the family, if we increase access. Studies indicate that increased bioavailability leads to increased consumption, indicated by surgeons and others. I'm really worried that we're gonna see bigger numbers that I don't want at all. I can't believe we can agree on one day that we have to find new ways of running around with an increased frequency of alcohol and drugs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u161	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir For a very good talk, Lára Arnardóttir. She discussed social responsibility and prevention, as well as the chain that is so important that many people stick together for protection. She has actually expressed concern that the supermarkets may not share as much in that work. It leads to advertising. As mentioned here many times, alcohol advertising is forbidden in Iceland, but there are various ways around it. We see it, like in foreign magazines and in contests. We watch live drinking matches on television. Counts 'em out. A senator that this is something we need to worry about? Is it likely that large markets and shopping chains will try to take advantage of the gaps in the system, such as advertising canes and such? Counts 'em out. A senator that it is likely that we will see more of such advertisements?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u162	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a very good answer. I spoke in my talk about social responsibilities and that Vienna was very prominent in social responsibilities, such as the ongoing state control, cover visits, and so forth. In one year's report, it was found that a very good follow - up was involved in the work taken care of the Camp of Vienna. The chain that schools, homes, youth communities, and sales managers work together is very important. If one party falls out, it can get a little bumpy. I have received indications that people who are working for prevention are concerned that one person who does well in preemptive matters will fall out of this chain and that he may weaken his work and affect the future. About the advertisements, of course, we hear and see advertising today. We're passing the system. Just on my way to work this morning, I heard one ad. I'm really worried that it's getting bigger because there's a lot of big people out there who are likely to compete among themselves and want to increase their ways in some way. I have to say exactly as it is, I'm worried about it, and I'm very afraid that advertisements will be disguised like advertisements on the skirts and something like that, and men are hiding behind the fact that they're advertising posts. Of course, a certain advertisement, though showing pedestrians, calls on specific desires, since the container looks similar.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u163	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lára the Year's Árnadóttir for this. Hv. A senator spoke about driving drunk and expressed concern that drunk driving would increase, making it easier for drivers to stop by and grab beer. The markets are everywhere, and even if they don't get into what we call bounties, there's supermarkets on every corner of the street and vote camp. This brings to mind other crimes. Of course, alcohol abuse is crime, and perhaps the result of an increase in alcohol consumption in society, and we realize that such cases will increase. Then you wonder about other crimes related to alcohol abuse. What about sexual immorality, sexual abuse? Is not sexual abuse very often linked with alcohol abuse? Is it not possible for us to see an increase in drug abuse and perhaps even increase in domestic violence, since domestic violence is closely related to drugs, alcohol, and such things?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u164	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. She asked me about drunk driving and increased access to alcohol into a supermarket. We can see in a paper with the bill that we now number 49 wine camps. But in view of the example given in the report on the bill, if I remember correctly, it'll be around 120 stores. I think we're talking about Hagah and Copenhagen or Bonus, the Crown, a deal, and some sort of party outside everybody else. These may occur in about 200 persons, resulting in high bioavailability and increased bioavailability. According to the studies that I have quoted as children, the emissary of children and surgeons and also the World Health Organization, there is a relationship between increased bioavailability and increased consumption. If we become involved in the violence, the surgeon's review shows that the matter was discussed here last year when there was a strong connection between an increase in alcohol consumption and domestic violence, child neglect, and other forms of violence. I think you can't help but look at these tests because there's a very serious aspect of them. I feel very irresponsible if they don't look to them.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u165	A respectable president. For the first time in my discussion of this bill. When this bill was first submitted, I didn't have the opportunity to participate in a discussion at the last assembly, so I didn't feel that I could fail to discuss this big matter. First, I would like to comment on the general comment that this matter is being discussed at the General Assembly, as noted in some cases. Senators. It is not only here at the council Hall, for I believe that many members of the council were aware or experienced the problem, and even were contacted directly by the public, which describes the view or shocks that this matter is under discussion and that traditional verbs said that the question of whether this is really a priority at the Council. This is an attitude that many take whenever these matters are discussed, whether at the World Hall or outside the Senate Hall. Since the year 2000, when individuals first brought up the transition to the government's private drug trade on alcohol, this has been the attitude that many have taken at once and have refused to address any objective issues in the discussion of the matter itself, which is the disbarment of the government's private sale of alcohol. A respectable president. I certainly consider this matter worthy of discussion in this council hall and do not consider it surprising, which is shown by the length of the speaker's letter on this subject. You see, it's a big deal. It is one of the cornerstones of human rights that we liberals want to protect, and it is the individual freedom, that is the freedom of the individual to control his or her life, whether it is in the pursuit of alcohol or to sell it. It is the individual's freedom in wide context, with all the responsibility of that freedom. A respectable president. I'm right to say that we who have maintained the importance of being a guard for freedom of the individual and for the sake of business, but freedom of business is, of course, a part of individual freedom, do not hide the responsibility of that freedom. In this regard, this responsibility is especially reflected in the fact that humans have some responsibility for their conduct, life, and health. At the same time, the person cannot walk, nor does he rely solely on the wide arms of the government, even though it is soft. Then, in this case, I don't think there's any need for someone outside the council to specifically call for that to be discussed. Of course, it is not surprising that individual members of the council bring it up for discussion. In this discussion, various statements have been made. Many have made cross - hand reports, wave them in front of the Hall, refer to them in their case in support. I have to say, these statements are many who, if not most, very large. This is a claim to increase in violence and teen drinking and cancer. The trouble at home with housewives was tore in some way, and they were specifically exposed to the problem of alcohol if alcohol was sold at grocery stores. Women are designated as high-risk groups for increased clumsiness. In answer to this question, would there not be an increased risk of sexual abuse if this bill was completed? These are all the claims and ideas that I don't quite understand how this bill directly relates to the contents of this bill. I'm right on the subject of the bill to say that one sort of management form is not allowed to sell alcohol or to buy alcohol or to limit alcohol, but that it is suggested that the government no longer sell alcohol and the privates sell it, as with other products. Please refer to various follow-up fish studies for increased consumption of alcohol, and this discussion does not follow how this change in business practices is associated with an increase in alcohol consumption. It is natural to consider the availability of alcohol today, what it is like to drink. The bioavailability today needs to be realized. In recent years, access to alcohol sales has increased dramatically. Then there is the liquor dealer, and I declare and declare, as we all know, in the hands of the State. The number of alcoholic stores themselves has grown dramatically. There are now about as many of them as they shop for the biggest food chain in Iceland. A few years ago, the state began to sell alcohol through the Internet. You can buy alcohol from the government's Alcohol and tobacco shop on the Internet. The beer was allowed here many years ago, and restaurants are increasing each month, at least in the big capital area. Of course, all of this contributes to an increase in alcohol availability. So, according to my opinion, it cannot be reasoned with any reason that the State has worked particularly hard to limit access to alcohol, to the liquor business. I'll give you another example. Today, the stores of Alcohol and tobacco stores in the state of Vienna are called. It's quite old-fashioned, but I always call them ATVR. If I have to go there and go to the hospital, she'll come right into my home page, called vinbudin.is. All of this is part of a special market in order to increase access and reduce the discomfort that many feel about shopping at a government special store. This is the SFR strike, the staff strike, including the are staff of the ATVR store. What happens? The store itself makes itself, the state makes its own decision to make sure that this strike does not interfere with the availability of alcohol and was specifically advertised Friday morning at this wine camp yesterday, on Wednesday, Friday's opening was advertised on Wednesday. All of this is to ensure access to the wine. However, there is limited bioavailability in a single manner and the availability of the wine manufacturer to a shelfus at the commercial store of ATSVR is limited. It is greatly limited by a wide range of burdensome rules that are worst for little producers, since they have been present for discussion, small wine producers, or small rocking houses, who fear to reach this bill until its availability is reduced by shelf space. Then I remind you that access to a shelf space today is severely impaired and is constantly at odds about the government's buying rules over its heads. Public health issues have been discussed. It has been claimed that the government is not going to live up to its claims on public health, since this bill is on the agenda, made by inter a. Yeah. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason from the Independence Party. Of course, that opinion does not hold any conclusions. People's health standards are exactly in place in the bill with regulations on certain rules, specific setting of access to alcohol stores, and all manner of conditions for the granting of a retail license if possible. So there is no other way to argue that this bill's carriers are fully aware of the presence of human health, and there is no one who is interested in rocking that boat with the aim of hiding private sales for alcohol. I point out that in the bill, there is even a significant increase in contributions to a public health fund collected by alcohol charge. In terms of the public health issues, I must ask: Is involved in a BSBA of some kind of public health? How could it be that if the person who puts alcohol over the box belongs to the BSRB class, it is some kind of protection against an increase in cancer or teenage drinking, or so on the streets, or public health issues? Does this apply to the socializing of the one who handles alcohol? That's how it sounds. The bill is only in effect that the government's exclusive rights are to sell alcohol. I have to tell you that inVR itself there is no specific support for public health goals if the public health goal is to reduce the consumption of alcohol. ALTVR has an enormous market for alcohol, publishing recipe booklets, pairing wine with food, advertising the shopping shops on the rocks and ergots, both on TV and in newspapers. If the public health goal is to reduce consumption, I don't see how it supports that goal. Most important, as far as the public health aims are concerned today, it is one government agency that supervises another government agency in these matters. It is the government that sells alcohol, but it sells other sources of observation, such as a public health center, are assigned to try to reduce the consumption of alcohol. The objective of these two institutions conflicts. In my opinion it is the role of the surveillance and foreminents to nurture human health, and not merely the public surveillance and prevention institutions, but, of course, is the primary role of individuals. It is the individual himself who has to be responsible for his health, the household's responsibility for the public health of his children, and it can never be that the State is the best way out than the opposite. Finally, I'd like to mention that I find the reasoning of many of them so quickly. Councilmen here have spoken that when they refer to public health and try to predict what will happen if this bill is fulfilled, they predict that the choice will be reduced, that prices will rise, yet the consumption will be increased. How can that be? This is amazing to me, but it may all happen. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u166	Mr. President. I've warned about this bill because of public health issues. I will make them confession to what. paritaprevir Andersen's victory. I'm a tech. I look to them and to hire from those who are more familiar with me. For example, I believe it. I trust to the highest. A health minister does not give in to any claims or policies that he has not considered them. I'll take it; I'll just have to admit, that when the highest. A minister suggests a policy in which he says that his policy is to use drugs and his first objective, in fact, his goal is to limit access to alcohol from public health, I accept it. Let's talk about it. The senator also convinced me of it, just like talking about it. Willum Þór, son of Þórsson, earlier today, that those who actively support this bill and may have more custody, also have some apparent self - worth. Let's talk about it. In effect, a senator insisted that the bill was laid aside on public health views. It was hard to understand something else at the moment. Senator. Hv. A senator is an intelligent being who is easy to reason with. That is why I think of her as a bit of a doctor's eye when she comes here and says that she also supports this case because she feels that the person should have the freedom to choose. Watch your back. A senator is as follows: Well, he must be responsible. One down. A senator, Frosti Sigurjónsson, has shown this by research that this bill is likely to lead to drinking much more alcohol, which again will result in a greater number of diseases that will cost society much money. Then I'll ask why. A senator: How will the individual live up to the responsibility of causing harm to others, e.g. financial damages, by their manners? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u167	A respectable president. So no one has to wonder about it now, especially is this bill submitted by the freedom love of transporters and because we believe that selling alcohol is better in other people's hands than the State. I'm with an importer to the bill, and I think this was also the purpose of the first time when it was submitted, but then I wasn't a importer. We think it's been a long time since the government was in business. I seriously doubt that the government or government market was ever entitled to do so. Please refer to a health - care minister or to a government that has set the goal of reducing alcohol consumption. I have no comment that one has a goal to reduce alcohol consumption. I'm no spokesman for drinking alcohol, whether it's little or much, I just don't think whether to drink alcohol or not, and then I'm talking about adults and individuals. However, the bill agrees well with the view that alcohol has some kind of limitation. This is especially evident in the 22nd floor. The bill that presents a fairly strict requirement in my opinion as a matter of freedom - loving senator. There are conditions for the granting of a small retailer, for a time of release, and I ask: Is it expected that it may be sold from time to time? 9 o'clock in the morning. 8 at night? It's exactly what the state does today, and there's a lot of conditions that limit access if you think this will lead to less consumption.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u168	Mr. President. This is the viewpoint I fully understand and respect. Right away. A senator comes here and says it's just her political ideal that the state shouldn't be picking on some sort of sale, I can totally understand that. And when she speaks of the freedom of the individual and wants a person to have the most freedom and to act as he wants in these matters, I can understand that, but then I can see why. A senator just saying it out, but don't let me pull it out of her head. Let's talk about it. A senator, just like his previous carriers, apparently at least Some may be self - filled, even self - righteous, in this matter, in a way that shows that this bill meets all the strict demands of human health. In fact, it can be understood that there is a path toward further public health. I'd like to say so about the previous talk. A senator says I don't make any comments at all. A senator makes comments that others make comments that this bill is here on the program. That is how she began her speech. You see, I don't care about that. I think there's a point of view that's probably paying off here on an honest vote. Hv. A senator also seems to feel a little guilty about being accused of camp booze as the main issue of independence party conflict. It is, however, that it was the issue of independence, so we are viewed as being the main cause of the success. I'd like to ask you what. A senator with one technical question. She has noticed that we have requested the position of presence at the highest level. Secretary of health. This is because he has promoted the drug - defense policy that I once referred to, with the goal of limiting access to alcohol. Does she then feel that it is unfair for us to ask for the highest order? Ministers come and tell us as the chief man of the executive authority in these matters whether he feels that the bill is in his own spirit? Is that unfair of us?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u169	A respectable president. I must conclude that why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson was doping or taking too much in the nose at the beginning of my speech, since I particularly considered this matter to be very important and why it would be important that it be here for discussion. [[Up front.]] I described it as a matter of individual freedom and so forth. I haven't hidden anything about the Independence Party's policy in this matter. The independent party has always fought for freedom in the trades and in my state trades and has not been a defender of any kind of government trade. He won't. So there is no need to be. A senator's surprise.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u170	But the argument for...?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u171	The rationalization - this is likely to refer to a discussion on public health. But I have to say exactly as it is, I don't understand any debate on the common health issues in this case either way, but I specifically mentioned that the question of what class-mates are that the alcohol cannot be part of public health goals. It can't be a question of public health whether it's the state that sells alcohol eða Jón. [[Up front.]] I attributed it to a long time ago in my speech that the state itself as owner of the ATSVR stores has worked hard to increase the alcohol selection, increase the bioavailability, increase the spending time, increase the number of paydays this week, it is opening six days of the week, almost 24 hours a day. That's what the State has done. As to the question regarding the presence of a health minister, I don't think it's surprising that men call for him to be here and describe his position on this matter. I wish that humans do as often as they can. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u172	V.E.G. President. I listened attentively to a talk. paritaprevir Sigrimurs Á. Andersen, especially listened attentively because of what we were doing. A senator will consider it a matter of assembly, i.e. a bill about changing the law about a store with alcohol and tobacco, very different from the eyes. I have often called from this chair for more exchanges in which different viewpoints are to be broken. To that end, I found it interesting to listen to a talk. The senator. The talk pointed to the point. A senator considers the bill to be just a trade model. That's exactly what we've been dealing with, so we have different viewpoints and, among other things, what I did in my talk about the matter was that the form of sale is just because alcohol is no ordinary consumer products, so it's not supposed to be sold at ◯ standard stores. That is why I feel that it is a very special sale. So last year I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: It views alcohol as being like any other consumer product, as can be read from the paper that follows the bill, yet it is different, as expressed in the highest court case. 1st The Case of Aviation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u173	A respectable president. I appreciate the answer. I view alcohol as a consumer product, but I wasn't asked. I was asked if I liked alcohol, like other consumer products. What does that mean? How is what other consumers are like? Money supplies are just a bunch of things. It's alcohol, it's sugar, it's wheat, it's glutten, that every other man now seems to be allergic to and would be in danger if he ate it. Money products are just a bunch of things, and alcohol is one of them. It's just a fact. People in Iceland drink alcohol. Some consume too much alcohol, others moderate, some do not. All of this depends on the time and place, and each one must evaluate for himself whether he will drink alcohol and how much. The Kingdom does not. That's my answer to the question. On the other hand, I want to correct it in view of what appeared in opposition to him. The senator who points to increased consumption brings this bill forward, that all the documents that have been referred to, or none of the reports referred to, I would like to say, none of the reports confirm that the monopolyscuit shop prevents the damage caused by alcohol. That's a sobering thought.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u174	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the answer. I just have to state that here we are. Obviously a senator disagrees, for to me alcohol is certainly a product of consumption, but to me there are no ordinary consumer products. That is why I feel perfectly normal that it is shopped in ways other than other products. Because of it. A senator concluded that the research we do not support this adjustment has been made, i.e. that none of their support or proof that the form of sale is important, I simply have to state that I disagree. This is not what I have read from the studies that came from the surgeon general, which identified a number of studies that involved different aspects of alcohol, why it is important to limit access to alcohol with the reference to public health, in which some of the studies used the exact method of selling, to indicate that there was a means of selling in most North countries, where, for example, elsewhere in consumption than in Denmark.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u175	A respectable president. Of course, here we may have some misunderstandings. A senator and, in fact, perhaps those who refer to reports on the consequences of that event if the bill is being fulfilled. Now I haven't read all of them, I must admit it. Some of these reports discuss the consequences of increasing access to alcohol. But I would be surprised if I saw a report claiming that the government monopoly would reduce cirrhosis, cancer, or all the ills that have been said to ride this country and nation if the bill is to come forward. But if the key point is in what way the store is fired, why don't people talk about selling cookies and candy? But that's the problem that's much bigger in our society. That's the cake and candy paste for us candy pigs. It has been tried to stop by limiting access to candy. They know it when they go to the grocery store when you're in front of you when you're waiting in line on the box. It has been called for the removal of candy. There's this kind of feature in limiting access to the product. It is self - esteem for many stores. That's the way it's supposed to be. It's self-concerned. That is the answer to the market demand. But if they really believe that the trade is important, they must suggest that the State take over even more harmful substances than the liquor sold in grocery stores.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u176	Mr. President. I'd like to start by sending all the people who are fighting for a better outcome and who would come to the Eastland today and certainly hope that they will achieve their aims that something else will be on the table of the Allied Seaside except burning in camp. I'm going to go through an article that Róbert H. Haraldsson's son has written, and it's an excellent suggestion for this discussion. As noted above, when it has been found that 70% of the population is not particularly interested in getting alcohol in shopping, who calls for this matter. It is true that each individual is free to present a case at the council. Of course, you wonder, though, what the purpose is when the system on earth today is clean and at least does not seem to interfere with much of the nation. Of course, the present system involves a violation of shopping freedom. No one puts it off, but I think it's of the good, and there's been a number of logical reasons why it's more convenient. I also like us to come up with these arguments, we sometimes think we're different from other people, and they apply to us every time it's convenient for research, as it has been. is presented in the case of a transporter when he gives support to some of his proposals by what the World Health Organization has said, but he chooses to overlook others. There are many countries and countries that do not allow drinking to be sold at grocery stores and that are well - organized today. In the United States, there is a state of Pennsylvania, which is 39 times the size of Iceland, and is considered to be a fairly modern society in which individual freedom and democracy are held high, this impairment of alcohol sales. It is important that we consider countries that have made bad use of selling alcohol free, such as the U.S.A. United Kingdom. In 2012 in Britain, a number of alcohol sales were already in 51 thousand and more when added to areas where alcohol is safe to drink. The British now speak of an epidemic of alcohol, both publications and reports of government and community contacts. A transboundary group of interpolitic members of the United States reported that about 1.2 million British people are admitted to a hospital for alcohol, and each hour one of the British dies of alcohol. This accounts for the British community's cost of over four billion dollars. There was a slight shock to the fact that domestic violence was being associated with alcohol abuse and the arrangement suggested in the bill, of course, that an increased bioavailability is expected to increase, and so the bill itself says. In Britain there will be 37% of domestic violence involving alcohol and 44% of other violent crimes. The cost of drinking alcohol - related legal systems is considered to be more than 2 of you. Millions of dollars, and for that amount, some 260 police officers could be hired. There's a lot here to look after, but it's been said that we should apply it only to Icelandic reality. According to the movement, he is somehow quite different from all research in terms of public health or the experience of other nations. We use foreign research in public health, in general, in sickness, or in such matters and apply them to the country of Iceland. Why should this not be possible in these matters as well as in others? It's just hypocrisy that mine knows to say otherwise. A respectable president. Of course, time is extremely short. At the end of this article, the writer shows that beer, wine, and strong wine will be sold at grocery stores, where young children and young people often come for a week. Therefore, we have to face the fact that if the bill succeeds, we are increasing the number of sale sites more proportionately than the British have done in the past five, ten years. [[The president calls.]] The experiences of those with whom I have come here must make us think about and show us that this is not acceptable to men who intend to walk in this way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u177	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for a very informative speech. It wasn't long, but it was meaningful and I refer to what the senator said about the recent issue of magazine writing, including an article published by Róbert H. Haraldsson in the News magazine that spoke of a violation that would be at the peace that had been established in Iceland. I also found it interesting to listen to the information the senator produced from a medical survey in Britain and elsewhere on the consequences of excessive drinking and would surely have had in that country. There's another thing I'm staying on the case right now. A senator, that is what she called, if I heard correctly, the Icelandic reality sometimes referred to in this discussion. Now it's so bad. A member of the United States knows well about the area of Ólafsar and the rest of the tourism industry and the way of life, but it has been claimed in this discussion that a change in the arrangement of the alcohol sale may bring about some settlements. I don't feel that way, but I'm curious to hear what it's all about. A candidate is arguing on this subject in this discussion about OnTVR.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u178	Mr. President. I thank the senator for the answer. I agree with him that this is just a violation of a specific agreement that has been in charge of the arrangement of alcohol trade in Iceland. As this has been so much discussed, there is really nothing that people or the public can exactly say is that this arrangement, they just want it in another way, they want to increase the freedom of shopping and business, and they want to disguise it under the mark of individual freedom. Regarding the Icelandic reality we live in, whether it's the tourism industry or the shopping industry or what, when he saw in my small community, as I've said before, there's one grocery store there. It has also been attributed here that drinking into the camp, of course, does not allow for anything else to go into the camp; of course, it is not a foundation in itself; there are so many other things to come in to keep shops in place. Of course, you are also wondering what to offer in a small store in a country where, of course, there are many who are trying to fit in small space. If there is to be enough booze or beer or anything that should be kept in place, then there must be some place that was previously available for food, clothing, or something like that. I have also said that for those who wish to have a variety of species in ITVR, this arrangement is restricted, if anything, of the individual's freedom of choice, to be actually delivered to a particular product, in the light of the giants who decide what food is sent to the store to my home. For example, there is not necessarily the same thing at a Synonym in Ólurfundurð, or Akureyri. So if certain foods are not available at the store, I'm pretty sure they won't be necessarily all the species that people can now choose to drive for perhaps 15 minutes or 30 minutes. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u179	V.E.G. President. I would like to agree with the viewpoints presented here in question. Senator. I think we share what we're against the bill that we're not talking about who's not getting access to a liquor store, anyway. Most of us agree that biofuels should be comparable regardless of human population. The issue, however, is how aggressive this bioavailability should be. That's a very different question. Should this product be worn like any other food or at the side of a regular grocery store? About this matter and to what extent to promote a successful market objective of communicating alcohol with the nation. I think it's very important to distinguish between the two. Next, if she does not want this product on an invitation, she will see what should be done in small settlements with a single grocery store. I know the drill. I asked why. 1st Transporter of the bill what would be involved. He did not come up in a talker to answer me, but he called out of his seat, "Can't you sell it at the flower shop? " It is better than most of us as to what we would be doing at one time or another. On the one hand, we are putting this product on the market and trying to find an intermediate route where the marketing is not aggressive, perhaps where I first made a compliment. A senator before him vera the grein of Róbert H. Harald's son in the News magazine of which he speaks of the exact way of gold. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u180	Mr. President. There are some very many things that need to be considered about putting alcohol in stores. As I said before, no one is special calling for this except maybe the representatives of the budget and the store. I've felt that was kind of the only argument, and I don't think it was enough in the light of the warnings we receive from all over the world. I have also been very worried that the grocery store is full of employees, whether in the capital area or in the country region, and these are young people. There is a lot of peer pressure, and young people are being put in trouble if they are to sell alcohol to their peers. This arrangement is also much more progressive. People must agree that it's more aggressive when you walk into your little store, and it's obvious. You don't hide booze so cheerful in a small ballroom, it's just not like that, unless we're going to go back to it when it was over the table like both ours and all right in that, we'll just do it, but I don't think it's what we want and the tourists want. I'm quite satisfied with most of the ATSVR policy. They want certain distances between sales places. As a result, their numbers have increased. They have worked hard to render fine service. I like it, and I think they did a good job at it. They also have good cooperation with the police, as the bill shows, when it comes to prevention. However, it is not something I can see to be applied to the store, to the free market. I also worry that there will be increased demand for free commercials.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u181	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. There was a member of the General and Education Committee at the last assembly where the matter was almost unchanged. I would like to ask her about the viewpoints that have a bearing on the interests of children because of the problem. A member of the Parliament is one of the members of the General Assembly of Children. As far as I can see in the reviews of the bill as it was suggested in the last assembly, all of the people who discuss the matter from their viewpoint or the child's interests would object to it, all of them. One authority from a child's agent states that selling alcohol at grocery stores not only increases children's availability of alcohol but also leads to an increase in alcohol consumption in the community, referred to in the home of a land surgeon, which says that neglect of the private sales of alcohol results in an increase in total consumption. The review says that all children have the right to grow up in an environment where they are protected as far as possible from the negative effects of alcohol abuse. The report goes on to say that the effects of alcohol consumption on children, that drinking alcohol increases the likelihood of neglect, violence, traffic accidents, and other accidents where children are resistant. They also affect the physical and mental health of people, etc. I'll ask him what. A senator somewhere in some regard to the treatment of the issue that recommends this organizational change and is in behalf of children's interests?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u182	Mr. President. That's just the way it is. I am proud to represent members of a group of members of the children's spokesmen, and I state that all classes have an arrival. We met with the children's spokesmen just before the weekend, and they encouraged us to do so without paying our votes for this bill. But I'm afraid it won't be quite that way, because we're one of them. To find one of the people on this matter. I agree with that. A member of the committee made it clear that there is nothing to recommend this bill, there is nothing to support it, neither is there 23 members who brought us challenges or many others who came before the committee. They said, "Why?" It's just to increase the risk, we shouldn't agree to this. I quoted earlier in an article from June 7, by Róbert H. Haraldsson. It shows that British children know alcohol better than the most popular biscuits and ice cream species. Why would there be anything different around here? Why can't we apply this to ourselves? It also states that in 74% of children treated poorly, alcohol is involved. That is no new truth for us. We know that. Therefore, I find it so sad that despite the fact that we have a system that is considered to be the best part of what is available, as reported by the World Health Organization where alcohol seems more likely to be sold in a special store, it was very high on a scale of 1◯10, I can't remember if it was a no. 2 or something like that. You don't quite understand the point of this. And when well - thought - out and responsible people make such efforts, of course, you think, " What's the problem? ' The children are not being taken care of in this case. There's nothing to support it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u183	President. That's exactly what you're thinking about. That's what we're supposed to do at the General Assembly. You may wonder, " Is this merely a twofold concern?'One way or another, it's a matter of concern, i.e. The private people who will profit from the change. On the other hand, because you seem to have the idea of alcohol at the grocery store, you are walking your own business as a symbol of the independence struggle for a better society. That this alone is the way to show that if it had come, we would have brought a more open, free, and better society. This has long been high on the World Valley and the Union of Young Independence, etc. and is always part of their precept package for decades, and when it comes to the eyes of an independent person, you feel that it's part of the fact that once we've taken this step, the world has improved, Iceland has become a better society. This is more in relation to a steed or some kind of icon than anything. We specifically considered the interests of children. I notice that the most vulnerable victims of alcohol abuse are children because they sometimes speak of us just talking about adults, that drinking alcohol may increase something more than adults. But it is exactly these adults who have a home for their children, which has some condition for their children. In particular, Iceland's Medical Association notes that the UN Convention recently legalized children's contract, pointing out that it is paradox to the following to agree with a bill known to have a negative impact on the lives and development of children and young people who live under heavy drinking in their immediate environment. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u184	Mr. President. It may also be asked: If that is true, why does the government not present this issue? Why is this Senate case so important? UNICEF, the child population, and others who came to form this group, advocates of the children at council, reminded us of the United Nations Convention to such an extent that we did not accept the bill. Here are reviews. Here was a review from the Institute of Research in Children's and Family Protection, signed by a professor of Social Affairs, Sigrún Júlíusdóttir, on behalf of this institution. That institution is very hard on the bill, thinking that we need to keep on the watch there because we do not have a firm grip on the ideals of the welfare. It says, by permission of the president: Since then, national threat - and still - has resulted in such an effect in our society. Logistic support for this bill reflects values and interests that identify these same markets. Later, says: The evidence shows views that are in opposition to the recommendations of international health authorities and new published policies by the Icelandic government in alcohol and alcohol abuse. So says a little later: A closer look at dozens of accounts of responsible parties to the International Parliament makes it easy to see how different values are reflected by whether a responsible view of worth or of profit is fundamental. I agree with that, and I've said that I feel that this is my main concern to a few large markets in this country that already govern the country, because there are no other arguments presented by the movers at the council at least not yet.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u185	V.E.G. President. I thank those who have spoken in this matter, and I rejoice that this is so much and extensive about it. I would like to begin by saying that I understand the views that have been expressed by some people in the community that it would be convenient to buy alcohol at grocery stores. At the same time, I remind you that the greater part of the nation is not of that opinion, as has been observed repeatedly in surveys. I understand these views and once felt that way, when I was younger, without having been some tough talker to put down the state alcohol and tobacco trade, I thought it was a bit old-fashioned not to be able to go to a grocery store and buy myself a beer or a wine. I am now completely different, and I'm going to come up with a brief review of why I changed my mind. I would also like to state that it wasn't my heart's concern. It wasn't keeping me awake. I believe that our community is liberal and humane. I felt that being with a special store and the government's monopoly on the trade of alcohol was a sign of retreat. What happened then, the highest. President? In effect, I began to think that maybe such an arrangement would be quite convenient. It was also so that the concentration of the concentration of the liquor stores grew. It has a fine selection and ministry, and it is available. Then I became a member of the General Assembly and went to the Council of the Northern Country, where I served on the welfare committee that was then promoted by an Icelandic senator, the Siv Friðleifsdóttir. She did this honorably and took great pride in the work of the Committee. We had a theme for each year on the committee, and one year we had a theme on alcohol and tobacco breeding politics. Then I had the blessing, perhaps the privilege of visiting the World Health Organization and meeting with her leading experts in the field of tobacco and alcohol protection. Alcohol is a global health problem. It has many national and, of course, profound effects on people's quality of life, especially on children who live with parents or those who abuse alcohol. There are many aspects of it and multiple cancers, but I'm not going to cover the harmful effects of alcohol here. In the case of key WHO experts, two of the most effective prevention of alcohol problems was made clear that access and prices were controlled. It would be nice to have information and all of it, but if you had it as a political objective, a public health goal, and a health goal to reduce alcohol and its harm, you would be the key to the availability and price of alcohol. It also pointed out that the northern countries outside Denmark were in a wonderful position to have a Kingdom unit. Today, many countries would be looking for ways to limit access to alcohol because of the growing problem of alcohol consumption, while most of the northern nations had the privileged position to have the State's monopolicity on the trade of alcohol. They considered this to be a role model, encouraging the Norwegian representatives who were visiting from the Northern Council to guard this course. In recent years and decades, the World Health Organization has been working on policy agendas, focusing heavily on the importance of the limitation of bioavailability. It has also encouraged every country to take a stand against alcohol and alcohol abuse. Our policy is magnificent, and that's why it's too bad. A health minister does not consider it a priority to be here and guard it, but it contains six key factors that I intend to consider that there are never too many references. The policy stresses: Limiting access to alcohol and other drug sources. To protect vulnerable groups from the harmful effects of alcohol and other drugs. Avoiding youths from using alcohol or other drugs. To reduce the number of people who develop harmful consumption patterns of alcohol or other drug agents. To ensure the availability of persons with problems due to abuse or addiction to continuous and integrated services based on the best knowledge and quality requirements. To reduce the damage and the number of deaths caused by personal or other consumption of alcohol or other medications. Simply put, the highest. President, it's the bill that's been put off. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Árnason and other members of Parliaments in total opposition to all the principal objectives of government alcohol defence. We here at the Council have also identified a drug - defense policy. We were able to unite in the opinion that we were right to reconsider that policy and disappear from a criminal policy to view drugs as a health and social problem and not punish people for what is now a violation of the law, such as having doses of consumers or something like that. The root, the good association, held the last weekend of a drug conference, and brought a number of foreign experts to the country to discuss these matters. They were people with experience in experiments in Portugal and Colorado, U.S.A. There was an American police officer with over 30 years of experience in the police and a street attorney who specializes in working with people who live on the street and one Swedish scholar who I am now just going to talk about here. His name is Ted Goldberg, a professor of sociology at Stockholm University, was born in the United States, but he has lived for decades in Sweden. He's written and researched these issues and talked about Swamp's policy in high - alcohol defenses. His conclusion is that Sweden is completely mistaken in that regard. Not looking at the scale, but either you don't use drugs or you're in a serious way involved, and you don't see them in some middle river where you can have some kind of drug abuse that's completely modest. He also warns against looking at drugs because people become physically dependent on them. The major problem with people who go to serious consumption that reduces their quality of life so that their situation will become frightening is related to sociological factors and they need to approach the problem in this way. I'm going to admit it. Mr. President, that I fully agreeed with him and was pleased with his lecture, but I sat for a moment and wondered, "But Swahili alcoholism, which is the same as the Icelanders, what would he think of it? ' It was only about me, if I had to reevaluate my position, because I feel that we generals are supposed to be ready for a reassessment. As a result, he began to discuss Swazily's drinking policy, saying: "It is so surprising that the state has managed so successfully to shape a destructive, alcohol - reducing policy where access is limited, while everyone is able to access it, is willing and free of trouble, and the price of it so that people can afford it, but it still costs and is exemplary and has proved to be successful. That is exactly what he urged to use or view drugs in the same way. In fact, he was not prepared to say that he wanted to legalize drugs, but he said that we should trust ourselves to experiment. We're supposed to have good information about the situation in the seminary group, and then we can experiment on specifics. Why don't we see how having a lot of resources is going to work out? Should we change the importance of turning to young people on pop feasts for drugs and perhaps focus our spears on more serious drug crimes? He said that if we did this, if we had any information about what the situation was, then we'd take these tests and then take them out, we could measure: did it work? If it went well, we'd go on and even experiment with it, but if it didn't work out, we'd stop it and try something else. It was his attitude toward drugism, and I completely agree with it. He wondered how a state such as Sweden would be a orbital position regarding the indignities of alcohol abuse. I think several members of Parliament who are interested in destructive drug addiction should be glad that in Iceland we run harmful alcoholism. It is also often said that in spite of the lack of access or biofuels in Iceland, Iceland's people drink a lot and act like that. It's just not quite true. We may have a pattern of drinking, but there are very different groups of people. When it comes to drinking alcohol on the people, we're in the 23rd or 26th, I can't remember it right now. President, OEDC Nation. We consume much less alcohol than very many other countries in OECD. This, of course, leads to less alcohol - related social problems and health problems. It's not like there's a shortage of them here. However, like Britain, we have a lot to wonder about how to limit high - level alcohol consumption in that country, especially among certain community groups. Alcoholism is not a religion. It is based on making a decision on how to access this drug, how to protect people from harmful influences, and how to discuss it openly and reevaluate it if so. Now I don't see that there's a reason for reassessment. It seems that the majority of the population do not feel the need for a reassessment. There are some senators who view this as a goal, and whom it will damage, and who will benefit from it, we know. We are here a number of senators who disagree with the political emphasis. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u186	V.E.G. President. I thank you for a very good, perfunctory and convincing speech that the senator described how her attitude has changed over the years since being a relatively different arrangement, at least open to change shops, but then began to study the matter. I specifically stopped from talking to her about a job at the Council of Northern Ireland. A senator has come to the matter himself. I'd like to ask you more about this job. Does the senator's opinion observe the discussion under this heading? Is there an arrangement where Icelanders live and then the changes that might be made to a store of alcohol if this bill is realized, many of which we hope not to be? I liked the concept of a less destructive course. We've been talking about an unacceptable store. It is no one, or few, to speak of being no longer available, even wanting to be equal to what might be available, that it becomes equal with the people regardless of their population, but people don't want to go into business. There are many members of Congress who want to minimize alcoholism, which the health authorities certainly stress that we follow.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u187	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator resists. Now I no longer sit in the Council of the Northern Country, and hence no longer in the National Council welfare committee. I'm just going to admit that I don't know how much is being followed by the discussion that is taking place in Iceland. There is no question that when this was taken up in the Northern Council, it was because there is always a debate about the monopoly of the state on liquor sales in the North countries, and members of Congress wanted to go down into the stitches on it. Of course, most people there were happy with the current course, but we wanted to cross the stage and see what was happening in these matters. The most surprising thing to me was, not how true the policy would be, but how strongly the World Health Organization's emphasis was that countries that would enjoy the privilege of having the State's monopoly on sales would not make changes because it would have unexpected consequences, and it would be difficult to go back, if not once an evil situation had been changed. Of course, with a surgeon in the administration of the People's Health, people in the town are in international cooperation, and of course they are deeply concerned. In other European countries, Iceland's antiquities believe that it is very wrong to disappear from our potentially damaging drinking policies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u188	V.E.G. President. What I have felt most sad about this discussion may have been, I don't want to use the word grizzly, when the advocates of this bill feel that they are future special publishers, that we are heading into a progressive future with these changes. I don't think that's at all. I think it applies to both tobacco and alcohol that communities come to follow a more conservative and less destructive policy in these areas than they have so far. Then I look west into the United States, especially on tobacco, but also on alcohol in various countries, and I look to Europe. I'm looking at a discussion that's going on right now, for example. in the European Union, through ways of reducing drug abuse, including alcohol consumption. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u189	V.E.G. President. You're absolutely right. paritaprevir Ögmundur's jealous son Jónasson of many lands is looking for ways to reduce alcohol abuse and to reduce bioavailability. It tells itself that a state like France cannot set up the State's monopoly to sell alcohol. At least it's a long way to be, I think. Governments that create alcohol themselves, these are old traditions, find it difficult to limit access. I am convinced that it is less patient today for excessive alcohol consumption, and the state will seek ways that are possible in every country to limit access.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u190	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for a business discussion. Like what? I'm sure the senator doesn't agree on this matter, in part because I don't think the public health issues are all that mattered but the values that are controlled in the bill aren't exactly the freedom of the business. In itself, I don't care about the freedom of business in this relationship. I don't give anything for human freedom to sell drugs and alcohol as drugs, no less drugs than the illegals, so it's totally clear. I'm willing to reason with any man about it. That's a fact. But it is also a matter of individual freedom. There's nothing necessarily a positive freedom of the individual, I realize what I'm sure of. A senator agrees with me, but there is still some issue of individual freedom. It is also a matter of values. This is not simply a matter of public health. That's why I come here and talk about it. A senator, apart from how much fun it is, is that I'm curious to know the position of a man. A senator with the only law that appears on the bill but is already materially in the law. It is forbidden that people make their own wine at home up to a specific concentration, up to 22% as it is in Norway, for example. This prohibition is mentioned in the bill in that the prohibition is clear, but it is not altered materially. I have found this to be a little strange, considering that the goal of the bill is to increase people's freedoms. You would have thought that this was the first freedom you would give in the name of individual freedom, away from your freedom of business. I wondered, " What is my attitude? ' For example, a senator would have to change the situation and to allow a local plot to be made up to 22%.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u191	V.E.G. President. I have to admit, here we go. A senator standing by me. I haven't given much thought to the law on home brewing. I'm just gonna admit it. I'd also like to know why it's this way, know something more before I'd be able to tell myself if we should change the law and the rules there. Speaking of freedom, I'm equal and our values are freedom, equality and solidarity. That is exactly the key to freedom, our individual freedom, especially our freedom from poverty, from the exercise of poverty. It's not like it's a home brew. Freedom must not always be that each one is allowed to do exactly what he wants us to do but that we will build a community as we enjoy freedom in the power that the rest is ready to bring us to tragedy when we perform some of the things we have in our minds, in the name of the freedom we have. I view it as a matter of deciding that there is a limit to the availability of harmful drugs, such as alcohol, which add to the general sense of freedom and well - being, and that it is more important than that I have an unabated access to alcohol at the grocery store. I've paid a lot of access to it anyway, so my freedom is set very low. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u192	A respectable president. I love to discuss this subject with this very reason because the bill is presented in the name of increasing freedom, which is this emphasis on freedom of business. Likewise, the bill's position to eliminate the alcoholic component of ATVR - something that may not be necessary to do. You can have both. You can have public liquor stores, but you can also have a liquor store at camp. For example, it is in Finland. There you can buy beer at the store but have to go to the state to buy alcohol. In Canada, at least in Manitoba, the fine new Iceland as part of its name, there are beer stores that only sell beer and nothing else, but to buy wine and that sort of thing, you go to public stores that are run by the state of Manitoba. I wonder what. A senator could imagine such an arrangement, that it would not go too far on public health that there would be an option to support such a thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u193	V.E.G. President. I have to answer no, I can't see such an arrangement. Either you have a monopoly at a liquor store or you don't. If we watch beer intake, in recent years there has been a great trend in beermaking in Iceland. It's very fun to watch, we thought we couldn't make beer. There is great innovation in that area, and there is great culture around things that thrive well. Similarly, a large portion of the alcohol consumption of Icelanders has become available, and especially for young people, beer. If we are going to have this policy, where we limit the availability of alcohol, it would be strange to choose the type that is most consumed, especially by young people, and put it in some other system. So I have to say no.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u194	A respectable president. I like it like the rest of us. U.S. senators thank you very much. paritaprevir Ingibjörg, Igveveld the daughter of Ingadóttir for her speech. It was very physical. A senator was very impressed with the logic of this matter. As it turns out, I feel as if the messengers of this matter confused two terms that are not quite as important, one of the terms "freedom," which is of great importance, and the other, the term "gavesen's," which is, of course, boring to have to stand in but is not limited to individual rights or human rights of individuals. Of course, it's more trouble for people to go to a special store to get a drink, but it can hardly be considered part of human rights, is it? This is what I ask myself, and I would like to ask myself. A senator's definition of individual freedom is in this context. Now, all kinds of goods are sold at special stores. Is it part of personal freedom, or could it be said that buying gasoline at grocery stores is of some sort? Is failure to do so particularly a barrier to individual freedom? Is the need to go to the pharmacy on a certain level inhibited for individual freedom? Is it within the individual's right to be able to buy all goods everywhere? That's what I'm thinking about in this context. Is a person's freedom of character being controlled by having them go to liquor stores to buy alcohol?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u195	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall for a very good answer. As I said at the beginning of my speech, I believe in a liberal and humanitarian community. I want to live in that kind of community, and I think most Icelanders want to live in that kind of society. In a liberal society, we want freedom, and then we want the freedom to enjoy our talents and to have the same opportunities as others regardless of our economic situation. We want to have the freedom to grow, to grow, and to do what we can to do and not to depend on our parents'economic situation whether we can get the opportunity to do so or not. I think this bill, like so many things that come from the Independence Party, has the meaning of freedom to show greed at the expense of others. Here, the idea of freedom is presented in the sense that it is a matter of individual freedom. Human freedom is not defined in one distinct way, and we can have different ideas about how to approach it, but I think that anyone approaching that term in a responsible manner would accept freedom from an individual is the freedom that does not harm the interests of others. If we look at a liquor store and access to alcohol, alcohol is a major hazard to communities. To say that we do not care and that we are going to overlook it so that Pétur and Páll enjoy individual freedom at the dinner store is only humorous and do not have an opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u196	A respectable president. To me, a social society where individuals can live without control, without interference by governments from their lives, and by how they choose to behave. But having to go to a special store in order to obtain a product does not prevent it from being free because of its availability. If buying the product was forbidden, it would have an inhibitory effect on the individual's freedom, in my opinion. There's one point in this. Another is simply science. The question we need to be prepared to answer when we take sides with this issue is: Do we consider it desirable to be an increase in alcohol consumption in our community? Because science and the experience of other nations tell us that it will be.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u197	V.E.G. President. My answer is no, I don't want alcohol to increase. I am glad that the Icelandic government is drinking to a far lower degree than the youth in other European countries, as well as young people in Sweden, Finland, and Norway. I don't want a lot of people with serious drinking problems, but they would likely increase to some extent. I don't want people who drink alcohol in moderation to increase their consumption, which would result in a growing number of negative effects, such as health, increased risks in traffic, family life, and so on. I can't imagine what reason people were going to have for saying that it would be a good thing for an Icelandic community to drink here. This bill, it would be a law, would lead to an increase in alcohol consumption. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u198	Mr. President. This subject can be discussed from a variety of viewpoints, and it is good and blessed. Of course, we senators and I have different opinions on the matter and approach it from different sides. Transporters of the bill have come a long way from the side that there is freedom of consumer freedom and freedom to access products at any time of the day and to view alcohol as each other's consumer products, as shown in the bill, tobacco, and ammo; in fact, it may not be quite suitable an illustration. I feel that there is no lack of evidence that this does not affect alcohol, nor does it affect the drug struggle, nor does it prevent young people from getting bored with alcohol before. And that the great struggle that has been and has been successful in drug prevention over the past few years will not be reassigned with increased access to alcohol, which would be the result if alcohol became available at all commercial stores. The discussion earlier stated that it was debated whether a member of the BSRB or a member of another group would pass the product over the table. I don't think it's surprising that people approach this discussion in such a serious way, because it's not about that, that the exclusive right of the state to sell alcohol has shown themselves to be an obstacle to the fact that each person can approach alcohol that does not have an age. TVR has shown a lot of responsibility, I think, in the role of possessing the exclusive right to alcohol sales and being fully involved with it and being in cooperation with the police and other authorities in these matters. I don't think anything has happened to the movers in the business that'll be the same if these products go into public stores. At least there's been a pretty hollow sound in all discussions about how this affects public health in general in the country, as if there's just another capital on its own and it's enough to increase the percentage that goes into the reserve fund. Of course, that alone does not solve a problem. You ask yourself why this expedition is on the earth unless it is in the name of the store that it can benefit and make money. I have felt that it was the most difficult thing to do in the discussion, in the argument of those who have talked about the matter of freedom of business, freedom of the individual, and freedom of consumers. But I believe all of this is at the expense of the pre-and substance in the country, and the great work that countless partners have been working in recent years, who have actually sent to us senators, in fact, a distress call to resist, and not to let the bill pass through and become reality. I thought that the morning radio debate was pretty striking and good, since Dr. Kári Stefánsson said that anything we could do to prevent the drinking of young people up until the age of 20 is crucial to the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u199	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for an excellent speech. I would like to direct a question similar to that of the senator, and I used to do so. paritaprevir Bjarkey's Gunnarsdóttir's beak. Hv. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir comes from the small community, and one argument, so to speak, on the part of those who have spoken to the bill is that the changing of alcohol sales is particularly thought to benefit the country, that the range of distribution we live in with the alcohol and tobacco trade is particularly lethal in the region. I'd like to direct that question to why. When discussing these matters, a senator's opinion is expressed and what is expressed in the local people's case. Does the fact that this center of the Independence Party really seem to be a matter of particular progress? Or do other viewpoints exist? I'm sorry, I can't direct this to the highest. A president who is busy in a talk chair, but he also knows about things like that. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, on Vestfjörður, see.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u200	Mr. President. Recently out of the week's election, I cannot say that the slogan for camp ◯ had sounded among the local rulers and members of the council that we met in the district. Of course, it was at the top of an equation of farm conditions, electronic prices, fiber optics, and high - speed connections, good school systems, good health systems, and access to good health systems and good transportation. I could have a long list of the materials that burned down by local authorities from all categories and in the public. Despite the fact that this matter had been discussed and brought back in, however, alcohol was not mentioned in stores. The bill is not designed for the scattered settlements, on the contrary. The region naturally likens that it has access to a liquor store, it's a legitimate product, and it wants to have the same variety of choices that exist in the capital area. Of course, this will be changed if the TVR or State's private rights are no longer to be peddled with that product, because these smaller trades outside the country do not have anything to do with the number of goods in these products. There would be just some cheap wine and few species that would be available there in stores, and the changing environment would increase the cost of transport. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u201	V.E.G. President. That was a very interesting answer to me. I did two things at the same time, asking for what I thought. The senator's plans for changes or changes proposed by the bill, and then I asked about a conversation in the community, what would be evident in the case of those alcoholic beverages. That's what they said. On the contrary, a senator that she had not heard the requirement very loudly or that she sounded very loud about having alcohol or booze in a grocery store, while few would agree with such views. However, there would be another factor in discussing the interests of community and of this part of the country, that would be equations, equations of electricity costs, equal positions, travel expenses, etc., academic status, even equalizing. As a result, my attention has been focused on the discussions that TV spokesmen have been particularly concerned that people in the urban areas may be subsidizing alcohol in scattered areas where demand is low. Then I have asked: Do people really want to enter a similar arrangement with oil, gasoline, or gasoline in the city area of Reykjavík or the capital area? No, of course we want the equations. But I found it interesting what came out in the language of the day. A member of the council says that what is stated when these issues are discussed in the country's area is equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u202	Mr. President. If this was to work, it would be a setback and a setback from what is now being accomplished on that product for those who have the age to buy it. Access to the product would be very different, for there are very few areas in the country that carry some special shops, such as people are talking about seeing it, perhaps only in special stores rather than in public stores, but in special stores. It may be possible for the capital area to have such a thing, and the government's profits are being shifted to its private sector, as humans are eager to do. But with regard to the land area, it was simply left out in these materials, and it would be a great return. We know that today the equation is about oil and gasoline prices, and that's fine. You want men to go back with it, I'm gonna ask you too, like, what? A senator, if one sees an hallucinations over the fact that alcohol is the same in the country today? Is that what people want to go back with? The milk and dairy products around the country are balanced. Do people want to go back there? Men who speak in the Independence category of equal energy prices, are they quite satisfied that these standards will be far higher on land? I'm asking.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u203	V.E.G. President. One small question of curiosity, it may be a little unfair to direct her to the President who was just about to sit on the chair, but I'd like to know if any news is coming from the highest level. Secretary of health. It was requested for the last week, and it was repeated at the beginning of the discussion today that he would be present. We're here some of us in the councilroom and others - there are many of us here in the Hallroom who want to know if it's the highest level. Kristján Þór Júlíusson's minister recognizes himself, recognizes the words quoted by him on the board of the Council of Government, January 24, 2014, of alcohol dating, and how it is then compatible with what is being proclaimed on the bill that is now before the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u204	Madam President. I don't think it's an unfair wish. paritaprevir My lord, Ögmundur the son of Jónasson, to have the highest will. Prior to the discussion, the minister of health is here. There is no doubt that he has set out a clear course in this case, i.e. He has said that the aim of a number one in his drug defense policy is to limit access to alcohol. Is it not true, then, that we come to the conclusion that he as the Supreme Agent of the executive executive in these matters will tell us whether the bill presented here is in accordance with that direction or not? I asked why. paritaprevir Andersen's victory here today whether she doesn't think it's a fair wish on our part here. Hv. A senator gave an excellent answer that she believed it was. Thus, we are not alone in the issue of government that considers this a reasonable requirement. Rather, it is clear that in the board of directors, we do not feel that we are crossing any modest boundaries in these matters. I challenge it to the highest. Mr President, to make sure that the highest possible. The health minister will be here and if he doesn't want to come here, to the top. To ensure that, the president uses his considerable power. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u205	A respectable president. I'd love to have the highest. A health minister here to discuss this matter with us. But I'm not going to make that claim here and now he's coming here. However, I also want to pray. Councilmen in charge of having a more meaningful share in the discussion. Many of them have done so, but most have been opposed. I miss the fact that there's no more discussion about a subject like this. Now is the ideal opportunity for members of Parliament to use the Allied Council on this matter, and the General to be a conversational platform in which reasoning talks. This is possible in matters that divide groups even without the use of class history. It's beautiful. It's an opportunity to reason, and I miss not having more private members of the discussion. We could be conducting here as a council. I may take a closer look at how we can improve my efforts when I have more time, but I'm asking for more members of the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u206	V.E.G. President. I'm not authorized to speak for others in the councilroom, but for my part, I would like to ask if this discussion would be interrupted and delayed until the weekend. A health minister may attend our meeting. I know that you can push it off the board and even interpret what each other has to say or attempted to do. We can be sure that we are trying to delay the matter in the sense of delaying it until the minister arrives at our meeting, which is a perfectly objective request. It is perfectly objective, and it is referred to as the highest recommendation. A minister he's given up for the government's office. Is it not reasonable for him to come here and answer to the board, to his ministry, and to himself?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u207	A respectable president. We senators insisted very strongly on being in the highest position. Minister of health at the beginning of the discussion at noon interval today. The talk has now continued, and it is six o'clock. We were told when the request was first submitted that the health minister had been notified of this urgent request by members of Congress. So I ask and ask the president to make it clear to the council what answers have been received from the highest level. Secretary of health. It is unacceptable to pass through 1st. End without a health secretary realizing if there's a change in alcohol and drug policy on the part of the government and it's a disrespect for the council to make this happen. I don't think there's anything else I don't know but to interrupt this discussion until after the weekend, and that it'll be safe to get it... with the Minister of Health. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u208	A respectable president. I feel that there's a very valid argument here regarding the presence of the highest. Health Ministers and I really miss not having any more representatives of the government, governments, and those who present this matter because this is a very interesting argument. It is not often that we have the opportunity to discuss basic questions, such as individual freedom and liberality in this chamber, so that it would be a great improvement to get a little deeper and longer on this subject, especially in view that the program for the past two or three days has been two or three languages and, in fact, a rather crescent short schedule. So there should be time for us to discuss this matter carefully after the weekend too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u209	A respectable president. I just want to make it perfectly clear that I'm not here to delay. I do not participate in this discussion to delay, not for any reason, but to participate in the important and, in many ways, a special discussion authorized by this matter at the council. I feel terrible how the seminary tradition of the General Assembly has reduced the credibility of all the discussions here, and that's why we don't see members of the greater body except the backroom. I don't really think it's the worst thing about all this language that it would diminish our credibility that we could have some argument here. But here's your chance, and we're supposed to take advantage of it. In view of the fact that this discussion no longer seems to be there, it was good in much of the time, I suggest that we take the other things that are going on, all of which are relatively dissatisfaction as far as I can see it, e.g. The office of an agent of the elderly, a case I think should fly through and be nice to come to a committee immediately. I suggest this in view of the fact that the objective of the discussion seems to be about to run out of business with the evening. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u210	Madam President. I agree with the wish to the highest. As requested at the beginning of the discussion, medical ministers come to our homes, and no answers have been received. I agree with that too. A senator before me told me about the filibuster speech. When we began to discuss this matter, I was very happy to see that these were members of the Sanhedrin, most of whom were opposed. Yet, there is a man in the side room who is included in the matter and who has shared in the discussions and answers, and that is well said. I'm sorry that when a situation that needs a lot of discussion, when there's a big disagreement about it, you'll get a levy of speech right away, that the more part will say as soon as you get to the rosary that you have a filibuster because it's known that there's a controversial issue. Of course, we want to have a place of word with both more things and smaller things, but especially with more things, with those who have issues and those who oppose them, and with reasoning. [[The president calls.]] She's missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u211	Madam President. I think it's sad to get to the highest level. A health minister cannot see fit to attend this discussion. I think it's very important. I'll only be thinking about my last term. Did they ever decide that ministers would come when members of the council asked for it? I just don't remember it ever happening. [[Up front.]] Why are men so lost or so little interested in the legislature, premeditated, that they do not see ways in the program to be here and show respect for the council to listen to the argument and discussion that is actually done on this great issue? If this burns on the nation, then why aren't they here, watching the discussion, men like the highest. A health minister who's led ambitiously on alcohol and drug control until 2020? [[The president calls.]] This bill is totally at odds with that. What Is the Cause?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u212	A respectable president. I'm just coming up here to make this right, because the word for speech was applied to the discussion here, that it's natural so far from the point where something like that is going on here. They're discussing the matter on the second day, that I think, and I'm going after my first talk about it, so it's far from where people are in any such place in this case. There's no reason, it's a case people are very willing to discuss here, and it's a very interesting argument. What I'm saying is that it would be very desirable to be able to extend the discussion and to have more views in it, including from the highest level. Secretary of health. It is not that there are numbers of paintings in the government council that the completion of this discussion was a factor. That is why there is no need to be in any hurry to finish it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u213	A respectable president. I expect at the end of this session for the President's conference board to be president on the request that we be informed whether the Health Minister is expected to attend the conference before the end of the meeting below, sometime before 8:00. As we have seen, the completion of the 1st envelope is not going to work. on this matter, presenting the case to a committee that is different from that of the secretary. We have a government policy on alcohol and drugs, we have a financial minister, the Chairman of the Independence Party, who has described this case as a priority, i.e. going contrary to health policy, and we need the health minister to tell us what this is all about. That is how it is, a respectable president, and would the president now be so kind as to explain the results of this investigation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u214	Madam President. It's like the highest. It should be clear to the president of this hall not much of what we members of that hall yearn for as much as to hear as possible. A health minister has to say on this subject. Today's debate has been about whether this bill is in the spirit of good publicism or not and what we do, at least I, I want to hear the highest. A health minister says that the bill is in line with the policy he himself presents. Also, I would like to ask him what would help with the operation program he declared would be cut off in at least a contract, and I would like to do the first thing that would include extending the main objective of the government in alcohol and alcohol prevention. There is only one limit to the bioavailability of alcohol. I want to see how he wants to implement it and to weigh it, for example, in any case. þm. Willum Thor Þór Thor Thorsson said today is consistent with that goal. [[The president calls.]] It is possible - but there is only one way to find out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u215	Madam President. I have to say, I feel that the pressure on this case, like it's the beginning and end of all the council work, very strange, that we can't put off this case at first. For some reason, a health minister cannot be at the discussion. I'm just hoping he's been trying to get a health minister and tell him what our senators want him to do about it. This ain't no problem running away from us. Are they trying to finish it to get booze shopping before Christmas to get as much money as possible into the store? Is it the rivalry and ambition? Burn in a camp for the Adventist? I'm just asking. Since there is nothing on the program of the council that is remarkable, what should one say except for burning in a camp in the opinion of those who make the decision? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u216	Madam President. You see, it might have to happen before Christmas like hell. A senator said. Maybe that's why this is the case. But I ask, "Where are those who burn so to this matter?" Oh. Councilmen Konráðsdóttir Consleysdóttir, Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir Ríkharðsdóttir, Sigrider Á. Andersen, Guðárur Þór Þórðarson Þurfjörður Níelsson, Birgir the Ármannsson of Aargnar, Jón Gunnarsson, Haraldur Benediktsson, Karl Garðarsson, HaraldurEinarsson and Guðmundur Steingrímsson? There are others in the hall, but others are not at the council right now, like Björt Ólafsdóttir. On the other hand, Ásta Guðrún Helgadóttir, one of the carriers, is here for two of them. I ask: If people burn to it that way, why don't they reason here with members of Congress and argue why it's so important? Why is this a matter of high priority when people are in a fight here that doesn't have time for dinner? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u217	President wants to report to the highest level. A health minister has been notified of wishes. Senators.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u218	...at noon, 12 o'clock. ...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u219	Madam President. Three lines of reasoning are presented in the discussions on this subject. First, that it is part of the individual freedoms of people, that is, the spontaneous right of people to buy alcohol at grocery stores, second of all, that it is permitted to sell alcoholic beverages at grocery stores without any special damage and third, that alcohol really is like any other consumer. Of course, there are other reasons, but these are the main arguments, and they are traceable in an article by Róbert H. Haraldsson, one of our chief philosophers in the news magazine yesterday. It is very good to use the standards of philosophy and philosophy in order to approach this matter and to throw aside preconceived opinions, in advance of the given ideas that you may have on the subject, and in this way it is really very good to approach all matters. Of course, all of us have very different opinions about alcohol, and our views are usually based on our own experience. It's my opinion that alcohol is repugnant. It may be difficult to approach this subject without letting that opinion and conviction color its approach. But I still try. I feel that it is my duty to examine and approach the matter without prejudice. That is why when a man such as Róbert H. Haraldsson, who has been one of our chief and chief philosophers, draws up the matter and draws up the arguments with and against and weighed and appreciates the reasons given to the case. It is quite true what has been said here, and it is said in the philosopher's article that there is a very large number of my feelings about it, and I think it might be, and I don't think there's any logic in this discussion, but science is quite clear. Of course, they are to be taken into account and held in line. There is a Minister of Justice in Denmark today who has the idea of reducing the defined minimum age of criminals to 12 years. Everything we know, all science, and all research tells us that these individuals have serious negative consequences. These are children, and more important, it will lead to serious consequences for these individuals and for society in time because they will commit even more crimes; they will come out of such legal systems that harden criminals long before they are gone and the consequences will be disastrous. But the Minister of Justice in Denmark disagrees with this. He feels that people should be punished and that children should be sent a message that their offenses will have serious consequences. Science in this matter tells us that alcohol consumption will increase if this is done. We must be ready to answer that fact, because it's not something I think, it's the experience of other nations, it's sums, it's statistics that show us this, and then it's not enough to tell me how it feels, or I don't agree with it, or I'm not so sure of it, to be. You have to be ready to say, "I think that's okay. That's fine. That's interesting. It is good for our community to drink more alcohol. But I don't agree with that. I think it's really bad. The statistics are still on my team, and the numbers speak for themselves. A great deal of the cost of our law enforcement is because of alcohol consumption. A very large proportion of our health costs are caused by alcohol consumption. More alcohol consumption means more health care costs, more cost to law enforcement. When considering the basis for individual freedom, people need to think in themselves what interests will actually reveal to us there. Who benefit from buying alcoholic beverages at a grocery store? It's very good for consumers, i.e. The part of a consumer who uses alcohol is, of course, very good for the interest of the store because research, statistics show that it will increase the amount of food from the store to buy one bottle of white wine or red wine at the store. The fact that a man can put a bottle of wine or beer in his basket has a good effect, not just because there's more in the basket because alcohol in the basket, but other products that are also sold out because these products are already in the basket. It adds cheese, it adds snacks, it's added to the jam and the Ritzkex. There are all these things that come with this decision. That is why this is very positive, if people keep in mind the interests of the store, very good for the market in the country, they will profit from it. Another argument that is being heard, which I mentioned earlier, is to sell alcoholic beverages at grocery stores, which is also banned in many places. In many places where the decision has been made, efforts are made to find ways to draw back from that decision. How does it say, e.g. Is there a limit to selling alcohol at the grocery store in Norway? While alcohol is certainly for sale, it is forbidden to sell it at certain times, after certain evenings, on weekends. This is because people have come to the conclusion that it pays to limit access to alcohol in some way. Third, alcohol is like other consumer products. Of course not. Alcohol is not like any other consumer warning because it is a drug that makes you feel high, it is a backup that causes people to get into different situations, and when consumed sufficiently, it causes a condition that cannot be called anything other than brain failure. We see a number of cases where people who have been in the condition of brain failure are causing a great deal of damage in society. It is also a product that breeds a disease called alcoholism and is an enormous calamity, not just for the one who is affected by that disease, but for all who are around him, individuals, mates, children, family members. So the argument about the freedom of the person, the freedom of the person, is all right as far as it goes, but it does not apply here in the case of a drinker simply because the freedom of the person to drink alcohol includes the freedom of those who do not and the freedom of those who need to be around the person who drinks alcohol. Some have no choice but to be around those who drink like children in their homes. You can hear it very often during the discussion, e.g. To this day's discussion, members of the Parliament were talking about a good appreciation for alcohol and a good time handling it. In fact, I never hear people say they know how to handle alcohol, which is actually good with alcohol. In other words, those who manage alcohol are never really wondering whether they are good at drinking or not. It's just those people on the edge that cover this question in their heads, the rest of them, they're not wondering. But okay. That's great for them people. There is reason to congratulate them on knowing how to handle alcohol well. Of course, this is very bad for those who do not. They can argue that there will be very bad consequences for them to be able to buy alcohol every time they go to a grocery store and that their willpower will be put to great effort to go past the drinking tank at the grocery store, etc. Not to be overlooked is the fact that for very many of those who are close to alcoholics, the number and extent of alcohol consumption are not affected. When the bioavailability is dried up, as it were, the drinking stops, the consumption ends, then the person gets into the condition that can be spoken to in which it can be damaged. Those who have experienced alcoholism, those who have grown up in alcoholism, know that those who have it are not self - centered, that they become someone else, that they cannot control their own actions. They set aside what they love most in life in order to find out what they have an pathological, pathological addiction to it. They push their children aside. They push their partners aside. They throw away opportunities, their work, their houses, their lives, sacrifice everything, a perfectly sick state. You just can't do that in a way that says, yes, it's just the freedom of the individual, it's the freedom of these people to do it with the lives of the people you want, because it's not just the freedom of these individuals. There are a lot more and much bigger things at stake than there are so that they can be taken care of in such a small way. What Is Freeness? That's what people need to wonder about. What does it mean to be in a liberal society? Isn't it being in a society where the State doesn't interfere with individuals, where they can enjoy freedom to be who they are? Where is the freedom of children of alcoholics when this becomes legal? Where is the freedom of those who want to be free from the drunks when this has become legal and the drunk always gets into alcohol? Where is our freedom from the rest of us who want to be in a sober society? Does it matter less than the consumers who use alcohol? Is that how it is? Then there's one thing that is constantly climbed in this context, this case, that it is in some way modern to allow this, somehow part of the normal development of society to permit this. But is that how it is? Is society developing in the spirit of wanting to drink more alcohol? Is that not the opposite of evolution? Have not people in general come to recognize the harmful practices of this material, trying to reduce its use? Are we not always hearing more about people who have decided to make them real choices in their lives and who choose a choice to live without using drugs? Is it not more modern to stress health benefits? To make sure that children and families can afford health benefits? Isn't that individual freedom? Isn't that freedom of business? Are they not positive consumers? I think so. A respectable president. Sadly, what I was going to do is that a talker of this speech beyond what I have already said cannot occur in the remaining 20 seconds of my speaking period. I have more to say on this matter. I want us to talk about it very carefully. This will have very dramatic consequences for our community if this bill becomes a law, and we need a careful discussion, and we need to look to the damp and scientific data and stop thinking that I'm going to be there, and I don't believe in it, but serious logic and well-founded, careful opinions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u220	V.E.G. President. Hv. In some ways, a senator is taking a deeper step than most people have done in this discussion, even deeper than I have in the years, but this is probably the best speech ever given during this discussion. It deals with philosophical speculations. It deals with pragmatic matters. She examines matters from the perspective of alcoholic beverages as well as those of the opposite sex, their families, and those who live with an alcoholic in their lives. I'd like to say that those who wish to go into the changes this bill foretells have a certain obligation to prove to the arguments presented here. I feel that they have a responsibility to step forward and to push forward as a team. A senator said here earlier. The responsibility of evidence is not upon him; the responsibility rests with those who want to make these changes. Of course, it is to enjoy the doubt that may be harmed by these changes. I'd like to direct one question to the question. A senator, because it is now in question, even though I would come primarily to say what I have said here: Shouldn't we be discussing in what way the government's alcohol trade might be more responsible than it now does for the distribution of alcohol? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u221	A respectable president. Sadly, what has happened here in this discussion is that when it comes to freedom, it is a matter of freedom to shop at grocery stores, it is somehow thought that it would be a matter of freedom to buy alcohol. It's very comfortable for those who want to buy alcohol not to go to one more store. There's more trouble for them to go to one more store, but it has nothing to do with freedom. That's the mistake. I really appreciate it, and I'm really happy to be able to discuss such terms here in the chamber, and I think that's very important. But I am arguing that this has nothing to do with the individual's freedom, only when it comes to the freedom of those who want and need to be without the consequences of drinking alcohol. Growing up with an alcoholic parent is not a problem, it's much more than trouble. That, in fact, knows the person here with his own experience. There's a decline in freedom. That's a violation of human rights. There is something we should not offer children in this country. If someone has to go through a little trouble in order to reduce that effect and reduce the consequences of alcohol consumption for the innocent in this country, we should.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u222	V.E.G. President. Now I'm on the line wanting access to alcohol. I have spoken a little from the consumer's viewpoint in that regard. I want a good choice, and I want an arrangement that ensures low prices, which, in turn, has a practical distribution modality. In turn, we know that the value of the government is controlled by taxes rather than by the putting on of the cloth as a commercial product, a completely different arm. But I have also spoken of the lack of enthusiasm for sales, that we will not establish the market laws as they become most cruel. At times, I have felt that the State Department of Alcohol was too much for me to drink. Of course, she should try to perform a fine service, but she needs to learn moderation, so she needs to do so. I've sometimes found that she doesn't exactly do that. It's a hard line, but she has to find that line, she has to do it. I'd vote, top dog. Mr President, instead of discussing this crazy bill, we should be discussing how we can handle the drinking problem in our country and perhaps how we can make this distribution of alcohol better and more responsible than it already is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u223	A respectable president. How true that is! We are as a community spending incredibly small amounts of money on the poor treatments available. However, it is happy that more resources are available here than in many countries that we would like to compare with those who become drunk. I have been reminded that Ari Matthíasson at his time was working on a project that calculated the financial cost of drugs and took everything below; law enforcement expenses, medical expenses, etc., the cost of the activities needed for these services. I think it was 80 billion a year when everything was taken up - 80 billion. Of course, it can rock to and from the way it is calculated, but these are huge amounts of money that humans are talking about here as the financial cost to drugs. In comparison, I think that the contribution to the Icelandic government to the treatment facility is that Vogi is about 600,700 million, somewhere under a billion a year. There are constant court lists and the problem of different customers, I find it extremely difficult to tell them, clients who have to come in there. There is an increase in all areas, increase in the number of elderly, increase in the number of those in need of harmful measures, etc. We're far more to focus on that aspect of the matter than on what we're doing here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u224	A respectable president. I have to thank you. A senator in particular for a rather convincing speech, I must say, not quite convincing enough to throw me across the fence, as it were, but certainly more convincing than many others I have heard earlier today and earlier on this subject. I have at times felt that the compromise of the bill convinces me more of its authority than of the other, especially when people talk about freedom as if it were the remainder size, as if freedom did not matter. I've been standing here saying that freedom matters in this matter as an independent matter. You don't have to make money, you don't have to understand income. This does not even have to be reasonable. People's health does not have to be promoted. All it has to be is freedom. Hv. A senator shaped his speech to a large extent from freedom, perhaps from its sides but have been particularly present for discussion here, which is, of course, the freedom of the consumer to buy alcohol as a drinker. A senator calls freedom from trouble rather than anything else, which I find interesting approach and basically right. I wonder what. A senator resists his stand because alcohol is consumed, and association with a drunk may be annoying. Senators of all people should know, or should they? Perhaps a senator would view the matter differently if freedom could be reduced. A senator spoke extensively about the freedom of children who were alcoholics. or replace it despite increased bioavailability. What I'm really asking is, is it really the most important thing to do with the abuse of drugs, alcohol, something that the consumer does, for example? A senator needs to associate with some drunks without wanting to associate with them, or is it mainly the effect of consumption on a third party, the effect that causes freedom between third parties? I hope my question is clear. I ask because there were other points in the talk. A senator I didn't find convincing at all. Maybe I'll get in on them later.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u225	A respectable president. As I mentioned in my talk about the fact that alcohol consumption will increase, I feel that the point is in the accompanying question, and we need to be ready to answer: Is alcohol consumption positive? The answer to that, in my opinion, is no. I don't think that's very positive. Then there are some reasons for that. I can answer that question. A senator's view is not that it involves people, that is, primarily, those who need to be present at this level of consumption. Of course, it's very uncomfortable for people to have to be around relatives, and it's very uncomfortable for children to experience their parents in a different situation. Of course, that will happen, but it can be reasoned that with an increase in alcohol consumption it will be more pronounced. There must be some display there. Then there is the fact that increasing alcohol consumption results in an increase in violent crime. It means more violations of traffic laws, more drunk driving. It means more injustice, more property damage. There will be more of the police calls. There'll be more accidents on people. As alcohol consumption increases, all these items increase. Each of them has a huge cost to society. As Róbert H. Haraldsson in his article in the News magazine yesterday, there is, of course, a great increase in trade and appreciation for the country's store to be able to do this, and there is an inert for consumers who use alcohol, but the cost of this increased consumption is public. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u226	A respectable president. It's kind of two argumentes that I find most unconvincing about the language of those who oppose the bill. This, on the other hand, is the cost of health care, prevention, treatment care, and, like the public health policy, i.e. the part that turns to the consumer himself. I'm thinking that we're paying for our tax system and that's the package, that's the deal. That's how the social deal is, we pay for the tax system, and after that it doesn't seem natural to me that the State is somehow trying to make a living by the way people behave in general. That's basically what I'm following in terms of taxation and the role of the state. On the other hand, I find this friend very interesting. A senator to the consumers. I think it's far more important and interesting than the cost of health care for a movie. If the cost goes up, he goes up, he'll just have to have it, we'll pay more or whatever the hell it is. To me, it's simple to the part of the state. However, the pattern of consumption is influenced by several factors and by the way alcohol consumption breaks out. There are alcoholics in Iceland, and alcohol is sold in Iceland, whether legal or illegal, and alcoholics are alcoholics, although they don't have beer in shops and they get to the pub, they can buy more when the state's open, etc. Alcoholics take care of alcohol, there's never been a problem in itself, that I know, I know a lot of alcoholics, like probably everyone else in this room. Counts 'em out. A senator said that eating patterns of people who drink too much at times can be changed so that they never drink too much but usually in moderation or almost always in moderation or in moderation, so that they do not get to the third party? Counts 'em out. A senator's ability to improve the pattern of consumption?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u227	A respectable president. Alcoholism is what has been called a prolific disease. He's infested, and he develops, and it always goes further and further. It's been studied, science, by administering alcohol to rats in the laboratory. All rats who are given alcohol in laboratorys become addicted to alcohol. When alcohol is given regularly, not just one percent of them become alcoholic rats, all of them. The fact is, if we increase alcohol consumption and if we increase access to alcohol and make it easier for people who may be weak on the ice for approaching it, we will increase alcohol consumption. There will be more alcoholics in Iceland after this change than before. Statistics tell us. Science tells us. As a result, the cost will increase. Reasonably so. A senator kept water if the government's taxes from selling alcohol were all to address the increased cost of drinking, but this is not the case. It's a long way from here. It's our tax returns for all of us used in the medical department, law enforcement. It's my tax dollars, I don't want to do it, I don't go to liquor stores, I don't use alcohol, and I'm about to go to an increase in the cost of others'behavior because of the consumption of others. What righteousness is there in it? There's no justice in it. This is not even so that all the money you earn from your drinking money is now used for prevention and treatment, far from that point of view. The state takes, I don't remember, it's been a long time since I checked those numbers, but I remember that there are about 11 billion a year that comes in on the liquor charge and a very small part of it is used.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u228	Mr. President. I want at the beginning of my talk to express disappointment once again that six hours will not be enough for us to get a clearer answer about absence at the highest point. A health minister we've made comments about, first at 12: 00 p.m. and again at 6:00 p.m. We are almost expressed in the same words at six o'clock that he was notified about the wishes of the Generals. I have to say, Mr President, that I was in an awesomely refreshing and fun government during the last term, and it happened quite often, though, that I was called to the council, and I was simply told by my officers that a man should come to the General when it was called. It was sometimes called after two o'clock in the morning, and there was no question of taste whether to come to Congress or not. It was a constant reminder that the government was convened, and therefore it was required to submit to the will of the Generals. I think very much about the lightness we see in dealing with those terms. I feel that it is some formality, including the natural, grammatical, and logical request that has been repeated in this matter of Congress. As we have seen, we will discuss a bill to correct a change in the law on liquor and tobacco stores. What I want to say first is that in the air the question is, Why this case? What's wrong? What is the problem that needs to be solved with new legislation? As a lawgiver, we have to face up to the bills or Senate laws that we are working on here and ask ourselves, " What exactly is the need for this legal arrangement? ' What is the problem we face? I agree with it. paritaprevir Ögmundur's Jónasson pointed out earlier, that the load of evidence is with those who present the case. They should argue that this is an improvement. They have been weak because they have not been supported by professional arguments and knowledge to a sufficient degree, in regard to the social and international agreements that we are involved in and should best know about alcohol and drug treatment and their effect on families and communities. I found the exchange of words very interesting. paritaprevir Róbert Marshallur. paritaprevir Helgi Hrafn Gunnarsson, when directed to see if the concept of freedom should be spoken of at the same time. I'll be so grateful when people say what's been going on in my head, and there's been a bit of this conversation. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall pointed out that this is a matter of reducing trouble for those who want to buy alcohol. It's not about increasing anyone's freedom because alcohol can be obtained, it's not about reducing anyone's freedom to drink. This bill is put forward to reduce the rotation, trouble, and trouble of the person. [[Up front.]] What problem is really taking place when we then focus on the social views that have also been presented here in our discussion? I'd like to add to the discussion that has been discussed here about the freedom of those who choose to live without drugs, who choose to be sober. It was only a matter of time before, but I want to add and add it and ask: Is it not a certain degree of freedom for that group if the people who choose to live sober with the tasks they involve, such as attending meetings, etc., must endure the fact that the daily space is actually wearing the product of wrestling every day, not being able to go to a grocery store without having to be reminded of these wrestlings? Then you ask yourself, " Is my daily life not too aggressive and demanding because at some point the Council has decided to reduce trouble for the perhaps and hopefully do not have a problem with this product? ' Could a person, then, talk about consideration? Could a person say that this is about building a society in which we take into account that people are in different places in life, and those who want to use alcohol, and who enjoy it, should only be willing to go out of their way to buy alcohol because it is a decision to enter a store where alcohol is to be taken and should not be part of the daily life of all those who have even chosen a different life? I think it's a thought you can afford to go in a little bit. I found it very interesting to see a review from the Institute of Research in Child Protection and Family Protection that was observed during the Senate treatment of the case at the last council. This university facility is located on the property of Iceland's University in the Social Management Department. The review says, with the permission of a president: Since then, national threat - and still - has resulted in such an effect in our society. ◯ It's not an old national expedition. This refers to the review of the Children's Institute for Research and Family Protection since March 2015. Says so, by permission of the President: This bill is supported by a bill - that is the bill under discussion - ▪ mirrored values and interests that identify these same market elements. Here are the views of those who speak unconventional liberalism and disregard for the value of human resources and child protection. It's taken very deep in this year. It's a tremendous political review. This is a review that, in fact, goes deeper on the political basis of this proposal than we have usually been discussing here in a Senate Hall. We have been here primarily the conflict between what is called a form of freedom of choice or freedom of business, and the attitude of public health and public interests. I find this very interesting point, and for every reason to pause: The views of those who speak unconventional, unconcerned about the value of human resources and child protection. You can see this tone repeatedly heard the words of those who speak for this matter, and are supporters of it, i.e. Freeism in the sense that each person has the right to choose how he is involved with alcohol and whether he affects other people, that's just something other people can work out. From this point of view, concepts and subjects such as child protection are really worthless. Children's Protective Matters are the subjects in which organizations and society as a whole have agreed that children are entitled to a greater protection than family members can provide in times of trouble, they have a more secure position on their interests and quality of life than families with problems. This is an enormously important thought. This is the thought that children have the right to become members of a community and that society is entirely responsible for their children and well - being. This is found in the United Nations Children's Covenant. This thought can be found in all kinds of international agreements that we are in, but it is not found in a bill at any time. Senators. That thought is completely beyond that. They even say, "This is not what we're talking about here. " Now wait a minute! Children's manager, Iceland's Medical Association, the surgeon's office and all these parties are talking about a danger to children's interests from accepting this bill. Why are the interests of children threatened? This is because children are a sensitive group for two reasons. First, because children do not have power and second, because children do not have a voice. For these reasons, we, who are elected agents at the Council, in the countryside, or wherever we have confidence in our community, must listen to the needs of those who do not have a voice and listen for the voices of those who do not have power. There are children. So when an agent of the children, the medical department of Iceland, and the surgeon's office direct us to this, what are we going to do? So let's start talking about old ideas, that it's about a view that goes out on freedom, choice, or something like that? Is that how we should approach this thought and discussion? It is a form of indifference to do so. I find it quite remarkable in itself, seven years after the collapse of the economy, that we are still there allowing a case based on such indifference and that we allow ourselves to have a language based on the need for decisions that do not have to be based on logic and knowledge. A respectable president. I would like to refer to the surgeon general's review of the case at last assembly, which states that the surgeon's importance is in the Community legislation and government policies on public health issues, such as domestic violence, mental health policy, and health programs to 2020, which are one of the goals of reducing alcohol consumption among the population. The ignoring of the surgeon's guidance does not work without a saying that is highly supported by strong reasoning that holds out the opposite. That's no different, a respectable president. The National State's policy, the Ministry of Health, from alcohol and alcohol prevention until 2020, has a higher objective, which says that the aims of the number one are: ▪ A society characterized by a healthy environment in which individuals are not at risk by alcohol or alcohol abuse or other drugs. In order to reach that goal, one of the most important measures is to conduct the maintenance of alcohol sales system, effective monitoring of prescription related medicinal products, intensive law enforcement and effective toll monitoring. The commercial system of alcohol is specifically mentioned as a subject, i.e. not to expand or facilitate bioavailability. Second, it is to protect vulnerable groups from the harmful effects of alcohol and other drugs and to children primarily. Also, to prevent youths from starting with alcohol or other medications, reducing the number of those developing a harmful pattern of consumption, as mentioned earlier, is alcoholism a disease that can grow under optimal circumstances, as it were, to ensure the availability of people who have problems with continuous and integrated services and to reduce the risk of death due to personal or other consumption. It is government policy, and I would like to see it somewhere that men could argue that making the matter discussed here to legalize these goals in some way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u229	A respectable president. I want to know what to do. Council members who support this bill because it has become more convincing in the latter part of the day than it was in the first part of the day. Hv. A senator spoke extensively about children and with great force and rightly so. I thought it was a problem. Róbert Marshallur's senator was particularly interesting because it was based on the term "freedom" to show the freedom of alcoholics, e.g., especially children. As I've said from the beginning about this matter, I don't care if people make the personal decision to drink more alcohol, but I don't care if they drink more alcohol or reduce the interests of children. But I wondered, " What is it? ' A senator sees that the pattern of consumption can change and may not be affected by this particular bill, since the outputs are many, there can be an increase in access to alcohol or a decrease in the grip of some kind. We know from experience that the bioavailability can be increased and that there is a concordance between detoxification and detoxification. I believe this is primarily the influence of prevention and integrated approach to the education of adolescents, etc. I wonder what. A senator sees that it is impossible to deal with these problems in the interests of children, whether the interests of children are irreverently incompatible with the use of alcohol when it comes to the sale of alcohol.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u230	President. I was trying to back up just what I needed. A senator mentions, i.e. that we know from studies that alcohol consumption is enhanced by the easy availability of alcohol. We know that in the first place the weak alcoholics increase their consumption, that those who are ill on the ice become ill drinkers, that those who live sober lives, and who want to make it harder to resist their environment, and that makes it difficult for children and young people who live in some kind of close relationship with those who are in trouble with alcohol to suffer. That's the way it is. I don't have those numbers at a speed level how many people are choosing sober life, and I don't know how many people are active alcoholics, but these numbers are very high. These numbers are very high. This is an enormous number of people. I'm sure it's all worked out. I'm sure it's all worked out. On the other hand, I agree fully with the point or thought that came up in a question. A task that can continue regardless of what the outcome of this case will be is a special and specific step taken by one of the senators. You can work on prevention, and you can work on education, etc. to children and young people. However, I am convinced that increasing bioavailability makes it necessary for the prevention to rethink and increase its consumption on its own that there is an even greater need for prevention and thus those who are less powerful in society are even more exposed to this problem.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u231	A respectable president. Now, you've had a lot of teenage drinking together, like we've talked a lot about here. But it does not only make youths drunk less often; it also makes them less likely to develop problems later in life when they become adults. The older people are when they start drinking alcohol or other drugs, the less likely they are to get problems such as addiction or some sort of misuse problem. In view of the many declines in teenage drinks, the age group now growing up may be more likely to use alcohol in the future. It would be a major victory for our community, both alcohol abuse and bioavailability or less trouble with bioavailability, if both goals could be achieved at the same time. As far as I can see, the level of alcohol and alcohol consumption in the form of a relatively small amount of alcohol can be achieved. Now we've taken the very long time to increase the availability of alcohol. I wondered if it didn't, in the light of experience, was successful. There's not necessarily a causal relationship, probably not, but it's been a success. At that time, I feel that it is ideal for me to consider the next step. Whether or not it's that particular application, I'm not entirely convinced. For example, I'm not convinced that it may have to put an ATTVR down. You may be able to authorize some more freedoms in this without putting the Agency down. But based on the results that have been achieved against the problems caused by third parties, children, etc., I find it simple to consider the next steps. I'd like to ask you what. A senator, for I know that we cannot reach a definitive joint conclusion as to how the arrangement should be: if you have a problem. A senator could change the arrangement now, how would he change it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u232	President. I mentioned earlier in speech that I felt that the burden of proof was not at all upon me. I feel like I don't have to tell you what needs to be changed. I'm not the carrier of this bill. I'm not on it. I don't like it. I think it's a bad time, and I think it's nonsense, and I think we're wasting our time on crap, and I think it should draw back the bill. I'd be pleased if those who argue would be more convincing, for then we might be able to handle a little more. But I think the burden of proof is on them. I feel like I don't have to go explaining that I want to change this arrangement somehow. You're right. You're right. You're a teenager. I am so fortunate myself that I have had four children in a very long time, in 16 years, so that I am directly with the kids changes that have taken place in the past decade or so during teen drinking and young people's attitude toward alcohol consumption. This is a tremendous success that we have achieved in this regard. When you have achieved good results, should you not rather look for things to be rather good, should you not say so? So, then, does not the person who wants to change the situation need to back it up better than the one here? That's what I think. I really feel that this case is being brought more alcohol into the public room. It is being made more effective in daily life, in the everyday lives of all, both those who want to use it and those who do not. I think we can take that into account too. I think it's a little important, and especially because of the children.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u233	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for a very informative speech and referrals of parties such as the governor of the land, the National Medical Association of Iceland, a variety of organizations that oppose drugs and child protection and family protection. From that point on, it became clear that this is the worst case we have here. I wanted to ask you what. A senator of other things, i.e. On the one hand, about the words and the powers of Iceland's Management Board. Is it not important for the Council to see that the government is in line with the policy she introduces us here and claims that it will enforce? We repeatedly have our requests for the highest power. A health minister to meet with us to discuss this precisely, that the word and wealth of the government together, and especially the highest. Secretary of health. I find it tireless to refer to statements he made on the board of information on January 24, 2014. So I ask. A member of Parliament: Is this not the focus of our discussion? Besides, I agree with that. A senator to call attention to the opinion of the governor and other health care providers and to ask how it is possible not to listen to these parties. But is it not this, the words and the wealth of the government in this regard?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u234	President. I don't say I start every day by reading the Government Treaty of the current government, but it seems so fun that I always have it within my reach and take a closer look at it occasionally. As it happens today when very large classes began to strike, I remembered where that part of the government covenant was on the magazine, which he says, with the permission of the president: In recent years the government also plans to eliminate the political uncertainty that has been too prominent in Icelandic society. The workforce and development of work markets will be expanded to a wide range of agreements with the labour market. This is one example of what people say. I don't want to say that when people put these words in writing or when they make their way, they have other plans. When a health minister signs alcohol and drugs, I think it's a whole thing. I think the advance team at their national convention, when they agree not to start drinking in grocery stores, is to accept it from their heart. In fact, I think the bill being submitted here is of course. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson and others, are also offered wholeheartedly. But it's a little complicated when it all goes against each other. When I'm at the highest. The secretary of finance is here and specifically recommends that alcohol be placed in a grocery store, despite everything else we've seen in another field, we may not really have any other pleasure, but we can better see which president of the government would like to handle this matter. Of course, it has come to the council, and all we have to do is work on it here, but this is truly unusual when heavy lyrics, such as declarations of cooperation, point in one direction, while various declarations are quite different.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u235	V.E.G. President. I want to ask you why. A senator would agree with me that it must be most irresponsible, if not presumptuously and most presumptuously, to make it public in the strength of the Ministry, and I testify here, to limit the availability of alcohol and other drugs, to use the name and then to support, although only by silence, the bill of the kind we are now on the subject, and to forbid the society to care for the distribution of alcohol. It is to be banned and put alcohol there into the shelves of a grocery store, which runs contrary to the declaration I was referring to. Must this not be considered irresponsible and presumptuous in the highest way?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u236	President. At the very least, what rulers say and do is not consistent. I don't really want to believe anything but that it has to happen before 1st. ends with this case -- I see that there are a lot of them on the rosary and it's late eight, so we're probably going to get a second strike at the highest level. Health Minister here into the discussion - to understand whether the top will be available. The minister of Kristján Þór Júlíusson has a absence of previous alcohol and drug policy; and that, by his absence, he is declaring support for this case, which his own chairman has, in fact, recommended to be completed here through the council. I find it unacceptable, I think it's irresponsible, and I think it's too presumptuous - I'm willing to say it by then. A senator - not to be so small as to make the council at least an account that the minister abandoned his own policy and policy of his own government in such a major matter. I agree that it is both irresponsible and presumptuous; it is badly treated as supremely democratic. A minister is committed, but unfortunately, this is one of many such matters that we have seen here at the council. This is unusual in this way so that it is presented as a Senate case. It is taken here as a matter of Congress, although avoiding one of the members of the board means that it will be completed, contrary to the approval and conclusions of the government itself.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u237	V.E.G. President. I'd like to inquire if anything has been heard from our fine health minister, Kristján Þór Júlíusson. There have been many requests for this discussion, so little to speak with us. We have clearly identified what we want to talk to the highest. Minister. This request was stated at the beginning of the discussion, both this week and today, and the wish has been repeated several times, but nothing has been heard from the minister. Has he given such little consideration to the council?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u238	President wants to state to the highest level. At noon, a health minister was notified that his presence was requested. The President has not had any further involvement with the highest power. A health minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u239	V.E.G. President. In 2012 the Iceland government appointed a team to shape a comprehensive policy in alcohol and drug defenses. This task force produced a report at the end of 2013. At that time, a government was gone, and the government of the present world government had taken over. The final words of this report state, by permission of the president: It is important for all government decisions on alcohol, illicit drugs, and the misuse of narcotics and narcotics and anabolic steroids to guide public health along with the best knowledge of effective and effective measures. It is also important to activate the whole community for understanding and solidarity regarding the actions and attitudes of alcohol and other drugs. Further implementation of the policy, with defined measurable targets and measures to achieve the above targets, will be provided in a 2014 action programme and will last for two years. The choice of action and priorities will include suggestions offered by the World Health Organization. This work will include extensive consultations with stakeholders. This is the final words of the report I referred to. It was the last government to appoint this task force. But this time the government came to be, for it took this report - and what would it have done? She agreed. She agreed to the report with the words I have now read. This she did at the 2013/2014 season. I have referred to what was then published by the Ministry of Health or the Board of Directors on 24 January 2014. It says, by permission of the president: The Minister of Health has agreed to a policy on alcohol and alcohol prevention until 2020. On the basis of it, a defined measurable goal will be established and a plan will be set to achieve the target. The policy takes equal advantage of alcohol, illicit drugs, and the misuse of prescription - related drugs that cause addiction and addiction. Then there are the goals set out by the board of directors. The first goal is this, by permission of the President: To limit the bioavailability of alcohol and other alcohol donors This is in the light of these declarations, the policy presented by the government, and the highest. A health minister is responsible for what we have wanted him to do here in the hall to know whether he is familiar with himself and his words and whether he does not feel comfortable talking to each other. V.E.G. President. I've only got five minutes for this discussion. It has been fascinating. But she's only halfway there. It's not over yet. Here we go. A member of the Independence Party, Sigrided On. Andersen, lamented that this was an extemporaneous scene, waving baloney reports with information that she gave very little and it referred to publications published by the World Health Organization and the National Medical Association, which have made the World Health Organization their own. This was done on the governor's site on July 17th of the year. I'd like to know, and it's sad that this member of the Council of Versailles and former staff should not be here among us to tell us what knowledge it has beyond what man knows by the World Health Organization on these matters. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u240	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir The zeal of Ögmundur the son of Jónasson for a good talk, and I give a fine talk because it is a good thing to discuss this matter according to its direction. Hv. A senator introduced this agreed policy action programme, which he cited the above objectives of the strategy that are often set in policy cops. One involves limiting access to alcohol and other medications. It is now that in the bill it is aimed at removing private sales, i.e. The only change will turn toward the retail system. There are a number of other factors that matter when it comes to official alcohol policies. One of them is a limit to bioavailability. A sales system is one of several factors in the limit of bioavailability. Bioavailability can be limited in a variety of ways, including with age limit. It's not being changed on the bill. It can be done with an opening time. It's not being changed. A number of sales places can be limited. The bill contains a company authority to influence it. So I'd like to ask you why. A previous member of Congress answers: Why does he speak as if this was such a significant part of the matter when many other factors are about to limit the situation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u241	V.E.G. President. That's right, there's a lot of factors there. But what may be the most decisive part is adding a few more miles of shelf space in the grocery store filled with bottles of wine. There's a fundamental difference. But I would like to ask. A member of Parliament against us because we are here to answer whether he agrees with his fellow party. paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson who, in fact, wondered about it, did not the public health policy, in effect, change about an old age - known theme of the world of philosophy and religion: Should I guard my brother when he falls? Is it not reasonable for us to grab them in our arms? Do we not have social responsibilities, and is it not that at least those who have their feet should enjoy the doubt when building an arrangement that makes it easier for someone to get closer to a bottle of Johnnie Walker?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u242	V.E.G. President. Thank you. The senator answered, and he left me a question. I understood that we were going through each speech. Senator, I'm sure I'd like to answer that question. To look after my brother. Yes, of course I agree. Sæmundsson's senator and collaborator that we must take care of a brother. But I'm going to pause at a talk. A senator who was quite good because I believe that alcoholism is important and that it is important to look to human health, as is the case here. The surgeon's website contains ten factors that stand out when such a policy is developed. They are in full harmony with the World Health Organization's goals, as well as with what they want. A senator came in, this course he spoke of should take into account them. First of all, it speaks of age limits, and we entered it, and we are safely put away in this bill that it is not changed, on the contrary. Second, it is important to limit the amount of time and date of sale. Third, the number of sales places is limited and it is installed in the bill, the local community's permission to do so. Fourth, prices and taxes are most efficient in the struggle, and prices are thought to have twice the potential value of bioavailability. I want to ask you why. A senator whether it is not more important to look at it than this one factor as part of the access limit. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u243	V.E.G. President. It is only natural to look at these factors, but this one factor should not be released, which was the top issue of the World Health Organization study report, looking to the distribution process, and who are involved. Of course, we must not let him go, for he is the one who is primarily in the discussion now and in the form of a suggestion. Yeah. A senator to change here. Of course, we must take our primary stand for that aspect. I kind of miss the short discussion because what's happening right now is that we're starting to talk about this. Here, the reports of the World Health Organization, the data of the governor's office, and I challenge those committees who get this case to consider trying to get rid of all their ideas and to make stitches on these data that were handled lightly by the board from the water. paritaprevir He's going to win Á. Andersen earlier today. I am curious to learn what information it has as the governor's office, the Medical Association, and the World Health Organization do not have. I'm excited to hear that, and I hope it'll be next week when we pick up the thread again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u244	Madam President. That was a quick run by a dog. paritaprevir Jónasson's son and his short speech, however brief, were very pointed. I feel that the two poles here contrasted with some of the bill's supporters, such as the dog. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson Þrsson in his speech today and in his reply earlier, to show that the bill is in no normal public health code. In the chapters, I find that their reasoning is almost going out in an attempt to try to argue that the bill adds support to the positive public health policies in these matters established by the Minister. On the other hand, humans are like a whale. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson who have referred here to many reports showing the contrast. There's two o'clock in here, too. The members of Parliament are giving a very big deal of this discussion, both of the advance class, a series of debates. paritaprevir Willum Þór Þórsson, son of Thor, why. Senators Þorsteinn Sæmundsson and Frosti Sigurjónsson. The two above have me in excess of that they have searched through a number of reports, and they very much refer to the results of a number of studies. I could not help but listen to a talk from one ear. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Gestein, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund, listened to me and again read a speech. paritaprevir Frosti the Sigurjónsson of Siglejo, who carried as much as one well. Those who seem to have read all the reports available will conclude that this bill is a war against public health and natural human health. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Ögmundur Jónasson: Can he point to one study or study that supports that view as valid? paritaprevir Willum Thor Þór Thor Þórsson and the carriers of the bill have been presented here? [[The president calls.]] Is there any evidence that alcohol does not lead to harmful effects?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u245	V.E.G. President. For some years, I have been following this discussion, and first I had a serious share in it in this council hall when I was supposed to try to force these same changes to start October 2008. Then there was a loud noise here outside the door. I've tried to look into the evidence in this case and there are few of them. I've attended conferences on the subject. I have been invited to a conference organized by the Council of Europe. I did business in Athens over a year ago. There were experts from Iceland, from the World Health Organization. They listened to those coming from here and referred to recent research that is extensive. They listen to what the Icelanders say. But no one has ever been in my path to a single report that hinders what we have been here to refer to, and it is the case of the World Health Organization and the National Medical Association. This is primarily in my mind political intimidation and perhaps a beautiful ideal for someone. It's worse if you have the impression that you are going to the big business, which is more eager to get this store to you. There's a lot of money involved. In my mind, this battle is a conflict of forcedness and interests. Then I think the question is, Which side would we like to listen to, to the health authorities, to the grass - based organization, or to the big business chains? I have no doubt about who I want to listen to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u246	Mr. President. I'm all for the freedom of the individual. I believe every man should have the right to do whatever he wants while it doesn't harm a third party. What I have found noteworthy here during this discussion is that men who come here and express a deep love for freedom say: The person should have the freedom to do what he wants, but he must take responsibility. Hv. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, who spoke in an earlier district talk, explained: "How will a person who has gone too far into alcohol abuse be responsible for a child who lives in a ruined life because of an overdose of a family member? This part needs to be thought about. Similarly, when an increased bioavailability appears to result in increased consumption, which appears to result in extreme damage to communities, as is the case with information coming from the wind. paritaprevir For example, earlier today's Katrín Jakobsdóttir daughter in Britain found that every hour a British child dies from alcohol abuse, and nearly another million British go to a hospital because of alcohol abuse. Of course, this question arises in my mind: How should the person be responsible for the financial damage he has caused the community? That's what I wanted to put into the discussion. As I made a confession to you earlier, I haven't read all the evidence that appears to have been covered, but clearly. Jónasson I have been assured that I do not have any report or investigation that suggests that this is not a bad effect. But I would like to ask. A senator: Why does he feel that he is at the highest level? A health minister who has tried a very positive and clear policy on the use of substance control was not counting to come here for the discussion and make any questions as to whether he or she feels that the bill we are discussing is in line with this policy? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-10-15-21.u247	V.E.G. President. I think it's because it doesn't add up. He cannot defend his support for this bill, if it is available, we will receive it, at the same time as he maintains the course he set for the 20133/44 season. I agree with what. A senator that it is fundamental to respect individual freedom, which I agree with. I think it's basic, and I'll join them. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aggressor and John Stuart Mill, who said in the middle of the 19th century that each man should be free as long as it didn't harm others, I completely agree with that. We are talking, however, about a bill that will truly harm many people. All these trials will be carried out. Whether the arrangement we live in now limits someone's freedom - yes, it does. Did the proposed change or suggestion for a change in one's freedom? Yeah. Who? It disqualifys society's freedom to establish an arrangement that is favorable to consumers, which is in accordance with public health and guarantees the interests of state funds. It is to be banned from such an arrangement so that the bill we are discussing reduces the freedom of society. Did the arrangement in which we live now cut anyone's freedom? Yes, the freedom of the big business teachers who feel that they have material interests by getting this store to themselves. In this respect, it's a matter of interest, and it's about freedom of society on the one hand and freedom from the few big shoppers on the other. [[The president calls.]]
