ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u1	To answer, Economic and Economic Ministers, Health Ministers, Marine and Agriculture Ministers, Education and Culture Ministers, and Environmental and Resource Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u2	A respectable president. This week we learned that the loan fund from Icelandic students had sent 8 of you. A letter for over five of you. A loan to responsible people who did not know that they were responsible for the fund, to the heir of those who ever became responsible for a student's loan. In other words, it is the new lender's methodology to demand the heir of responsible men to pay off unsaid loans. This has not been done before, it is a new policy for the fund to have this as a general policy. A law on responsible men who agreed to agree at the General Assembly of 2009 contains regulations in Article 7. that the borrower should inform the responsible responsible man in writing as soon as possible about any loans, on the death of loans, etc. How to reconcile a law requirement to send information as quickly as possible to the praxis to send now, six years after the office of the law, an information letter to responsible people is incomprehensible. This march violates the purpose of responsible laws given in 2009 to remove the cancer of the Icelandic financial system responsible for a third person. Hence, responsibilities are no longer required for new loans from Icelandic students. The new course of the loan fund has the dramatic effect that if the borrower himself dies, his children who have been educated by him are the ones who have enjoyed his education in the training and conduct of the looser than children and grandchildren and grandchildren of responsible men in the city are hunted across the grave and death. There's nothing better about this methodology.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u3	A respectable president. I believe that statement is what? A senator's claim is that this is a new course, a change of direction, a very controversial statement. Since 2012 these responsibilities have been carried out. A senator should be aware of this, that there has been some discussion in the media. What happened here was simply that letters were sent out to make the people they were given an understanding of the position they lived in, i.e. These were information letters, not collection letters. People were being informed of their responsibilities. It is wrong what is said here that there is some sort of transformation. Hv. A senator should have come here in 2012 to discuss the adopted policy. It is also good to remember that when it comes to responsibilities that fall on the swelling farm, it is no different requirement than an swelling joint, and it is made up according to the rules that apply to it. Then, those who suffer such responsibilities continue to have the right to the one who has not paid back. This is a substantial amount of money, a respectable president, which is important to us for our consideration. You're right. A senator has said that there have been changes in the responsible law, but these are the responsibilities that truly exist and were approved for that law. The loan fund and its government are merely fulfilling the legal obligation. The loan board has no authority to cancel debts or responsibilities. A respectable president. I believe they're saying what to say. The senator said that the loan board went out of line with law requires details from the senator from the speaker's office.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u4	A respectable president. This is where we heard a defense speech for the old Iceland, the rule that third man's responsibilities are always wise and that people have a claim to the main debt. This is the old speech that took us to a tragic place and undermined responsibility in the financial system. It's awful to hear that it's the national Education Minister and the government that is going ahead now that makes public agencies come forward but banks dare to handle three people's responsibilities. Of course, the law has been compromised because of 1k. They say that the responsibilities of a third person and the responsibilities to the 7th suit should be reduced. explains how a responsible person should be informed of the impending responsibility. As soon as the methodology is changed, like the highest. The minister here confirmed in his talk that it was done in 2012, being confined to law since 2009. He'd be bigger and there'd be some sound in the eternal dictionary of this government for the benefit of people in debt if he made a statement here that he wanted to respect the law from 2009 and make some sense of the government and the directors of Icelandic students. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u5	A respectable president. Then it's confirmed on the part of the drive. This methodology, was born in 2012, in the state of the United States. A senator sat for a while. [[I was just...]] [[Step forward... the minister's words.]] But I'm not going to be taxing from a talk at the mouth. A senator. This is the arrangement that arose in the time of the last government, the government in which he served. Then, of course, you need to ask yourself, " Do I want to make some adjustments? ' A senator says, this week they sent out an information letter but the methodology. A senator here speaks of the responsibility of the last government. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] [[Take it up: Send out a message...]] [[Up front.]] He'd have made a point of it better then. I would do the same when I listened to what I heard. From a speaker's talk, he's worried that there's more to it than that, I quote. A senator, a danger of an endless mood, I heard it. That's what a senator here says and his concerns. [[Up front.]] I think that this situation here and language is some kind of experiment. A senator to show us an example of any type of compromise that would be classified as being an endless people's coven. [[The president calls.]] [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u6	A respectable president. Monday I asked the highest. Prime Minister on his position as to whether plans and measures to release were strictly secret. In this sermon, he repeated that it was his opinion that the release process would be extremely important to keep it secret, for it was a highly motivated and demanding subject for information, and it would be important to keep it secret. I certainly agree that there's a lot of interest in it. I believe that there is one of the biggest interests in the country how to get rid of oceans. What I think is to be our guide is that public election does not interfere with such an operation. That's why I'm asking the highest. Secretary of the budget, if he agrees with the highest power. Prime Minister on this methodology, to keep plans secret, whether it is not important for the general public to be informed about what is going to happen, because this can have a tremendous impact on the common population in this country and very important in this regard, in general, and wide agreement on what to do and anyway, what to do about it. V.E.G. The secretary of finance has noted that there must be some guidelines on how to transport from emissions in order to ensure stability of the crown. Is it not reasonable for us to have an open discussion about this, not only here at the Council, but also with the people of the country? This big economic situation is all of us. I'm asking the highest. The secretary of finance whether he agrees that the matter is normal to exaggerate this cover-up, where we read primarily in the media what may exist, whether it is normal for the government to open up the discussion to ensure that we are able to create the greatest reconciliation, not just between us at the council, but in the community everywhere, on this huge matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u7	Mr. President. I think it's important that we don't mix two different things together. On the one hand, there is a general debate over how we are going to conduct money management in our country, which national economists we intend to adopt to secure stability after our failure and plan to support, among other things, in order to show that we have learned from the weaknesses of the crisis here. However, the issue of how governments intend to handle the problems we face is then discussed, first of all, in the deportation problem, second, the danger of a sudden gang war because of a renovation of the victims of a fallen bank. Let's just face it. It can be handled in a number of ways, and the work over the past few years has been to determine the extent of the problem and nature, as well as to resolve the options we face. The fact is that the prime minister has noted that it may not serve our interests to speak out and south over all the different options and better consider working in a calmer manner in the administrative system and after events in agreement with other political parties at the Convention Committee, where people wonder how we could best resolve our common interests on the options we have. This can also be applied to actions that focus on the third part of the problem that is the internal pressure. Why can't you take a very public discussion about all of this? Because every word that is said in that discussion, for example, can affect the market, on registered debts, etc., and can change behavior. You have to be careful about talking about all your thoughts and options, but the rest of the business and how we're going to maintain stability, I agree with the senator. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u8	A respectable president. This does not change the fact that all of this is wrapped up in a certain secret code, which makes a measure of suspicion possible for the intended person. When a program of delinquency is laid down and introduced in 2011, it is officially introduced, so the common people had support. We've heard that new plans will be made or planned, but there's no new plan yet, at least not officially. Meanwhile, the public is reading about how to form an outlet tax. We received a report yesterday that the InDefence men are describing their view that the eviction tax we've read about in magazines without the fact that it was established on the part of the government is too low. The discussion of delinquency is all in this situation, we have nothing to hold on to, so I repeat that it is very important that we try to make this discussion more informed. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of the budget what he thinks of this suggestion by the InDefence that the eviction tax will be at least 60%. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is this not something that needs to be discussed, to form in the Parapolitic Conference Committee, which has not been met since December?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u9	Mr. President. I reiterate that I join with what. A senator will need to introduce all the steps we plan to take very carefully, but we will not be able to do so until we are determined to do exactly what we will do. It has been called for further discussions with the political opposition, I have listened, and we intend to respond. It doesn't change the fact that not all thoughts, every plans, any possibilities that are considered in the management system can be revealed immediately. It does not serve our common interests. With regard to the ecosystem tax, I have repeatedly stated that there has not been a decision on the eviction tax, much less I have proclaimed some specific percentages to which men are referring.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u10	President. I wanted to have a place to talk to. Secretary of education and culture, including ... ofa recent attempt to put a restraining order on Kashlight, and in that light, I would like to ask the highest degree. Minister on how to proceed with work, which insinuates the understanding that Iceland takes a firm stand for information and expression freedom. As everyone should know, that's the Ministry Department case. Minister. If the supposed work had been done, it would have been avoided that sort of ban could be requested. IMMI's conclusion includes the prevention of a publication's ban: Inhibition of freedom of expression is any legal action that can be used to prevent the publication of material. Such obstacles have a very bad effect on freedom of expression. In most democracies there are strong, even absolute limits on them. It must be determined how to ensure that laws will not be misused in experiments that limit and block the freedom of expression guaranteed in the constitution. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Minister if a job has begun. If not, when? And when is the Minister planning to report the situation to the General? The resolution adopted during the last term reads: The Council of Human Rights and Culture Advisory informed the General Parliament of the implementation of projects within the Council of Directors of the Council of Human Services, according to the Council of Human Rights, in accordance with the Council of Human Rights. mg every three months from the approved conclusion. So I would like to have some sort of time frame about when to implement it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u11	A respectable president. Thanks for the inquiry. This is first to take into account the activities of the restorative work force. A senator suggests that special funding came into the budget of this year to further that activity. I had previously made it clear to the council that there was a need for financial support by that resolution so that, at least in certain circumstances, I could handle this extensive and complex project, which requires a very great deal of expertise that can be necessary to buy, i.e., at least in certain circumstances, i.e. a ministry in order to do what is right. There has been a change in the prehumanity of the Committee. There's a new chairman for her, Ása Ólafsdóttir retired, but in exchange has been appointed president of Hörður Helgason. They are expected to be in an effort to complete a 2015 project plan as soon as possible. Despite changes in the work force, this group has made up for the good work that has been done up until now. For example, it has arrived for the bill to correct a change in administrative law, specifically on the confidentiality of public employees, and a report on decommissioned punishment due to failure, i.e. whether or not to cancel the punishment due to XXV misdemeanors. the general penalties, as well as the right to a court order of delinquency will be completely brought from a court of law to the realm of private rights, after further application of Article 26. damage fixation. This is my subject, a respectable president, not to say that it has been decided to do this, that this is going to be a policy, but to describe where the work is, what has already been done. In view of my stand on the Cestlight Act, the issue on which the competent authorities must take their stand is not a reason for me to take sides as a minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u12	I appreciate the answers. Clearly, the laws that the Minister referred to as to silence have been set up for over a year, but for some reason the Ministry of Presidency was trapped. I know a lot of people are waiting for them. It is a very careful work that is behind it. I am deeply concerned with the position of the press freedom in Iceland, which is in a crying contrast to the resolution of the Allied Council, which was agreed here. According to a report from the ◯Reporters Without Borders, we have crashed down one 13 seats. The reason is said to be a worsening in communication between politicians and the media. I find this extremely serious, and I certainly don't agree with what I hope a minister wants to develop in this country. At the same time, I think it is very important to examine the price when the group meets the communication protection and protection of the middle people because that is the basis for a company such as Apple being interested in being here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u13	A respectable president. Of course, it's not good in itself that Iceland's position on arts is being measured by the press. However, such art is always to be taken with caution, not always telling the entire story, but, of course, it is proper to look to that. [[Up front.]] The important thing is that our legislation around our media is comparable to the legislation in other countries that we consider, and that all the media have the same rights as in general are required in Western lands. That must be our common course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u14	A respectable president. The tourist industry is the largest industry in Iceland. It's a driving force in the economy, gives us the biggest currency wage and is the main source of the economic growth here from 2010. The analysis department of Iceland banks published a report yesterday on the subject, and it shows that tourism has produced huge national incomes as well as an increasing number of workers in this article have been a major factor in the decline in unemployment in the country. Furthermore, they estimate that this year's currency will be about $33 billion, U.S. 1/3 of the whole. Thus, travel is the largest item of stocked export income, a quarter of the size of the fishing industry so far, was the basic construction road. In this regard, we need to examine the structure of infrastructure in these two sectors. The government has always been very poor in construction of tourist services. How many billion tax dollars will have gone to seaports and other buildings for fishing and industry? Today, the Industrial Minister intends to improve the plans for natural passes that will provide billions of dollars per year from the pockets of local and foreign tourists in uncertain ways, to say the least. As to this procedure, I'd like to ask the highest possible question. Secretary of finance. I have to admit the unexpected joy of quoting and applying the morning edition of Friday, February 27, which says: It's not always a matter of finding new taxes. They want new expenses. Of course, money has poured into the Kingdom box because of it. ...the number of jobs in the country last year went into travel service. It is natural that the money the stupid fit was supposed to come out of humans as part of the big surprise pay. You don't even have to do a can without a small part of the tequila. Why does common sense have fewer agents in the Council today than it has ever been? I'm asking the highest. Secretary of finance on these words and how he feels about these proposals, the natural pass, and thus increasing tax returns. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u15	Mr. President. What is underlying in this discussion is the great problem that has appeared in many places of tourism, and we all know it. First of all, it is the security of tourists in these places that have actually been in the media discussion during the past few days, secondly, the sustainableity, the non-compressed places, and the third, that the situation is adequate, there are steps, toilet facilities, parking areas, etc. In this regard, the basic concept of government work has been fundamental to the fact that it is especially those who visit these places and who enjoy the situation there to be paid. It was not in the government last year to bring additional contributions to the seminary, even if there were no new tax institutions. Thus, the government made a special decision to build up these places by more than 400 million. Sadly, at the places that were especially built up, people were not willing to accept the money and set off the projects to be seen, stepwork, bars, etc. This does not change the fact that the project is still in front of us. Now, the question is, Should we build a system where we maintain the thought that the case has been fundamental to this point, that it is especially those who enjoy the local paying in a direct or indirect way, or should we take money to this department from taxes? I can say that the government fund has, in a direct and indirect way, increased income from the tourists, increased activity on the road of tourists, and, of course, has been considered, not to build up new income stocks but to build on the box only to stand in this structure. Now, the matter is to be treated at the council, and I hope we will prosper at this spring council to bring it to its end. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u16	A respectable president. There is no difference in the need to build up in tourist areas. It's not exactly the subject of discussion, it's how it should be handled. Tremendous income comes from these occupations. It has not been in the state to pay, and even the will of other large sectors, such as industry and fishing roads, to make them successful. Why is it the same with our main source of income? In this regard, I'd like to ask the highest. Financial Minister: What are the direct tax revenues of the state from tourism? Why are they not already new to the job? How much increase have been made in recent years due to tourism? What has been the increase in income taxes as a result of increasing employment in this article? What are the indirect tax returns from this article? [[The president calls.]] They were estimated to be 10 billion in 2012. [[The president calls.]] Is it 20 billion now, or what? We are talking about a billion people who are far too small in nature. [[The president calls.]] I have mentioned many examples of earnings that come into the government budget. [[The president calls.]] Why is it not used in the article?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u17	Mr. President. The fact is, we haven't been building on special income stocks outside the host's account to survive the infrastructure that has taken place. Last year I gave examples of hundreds of millions of funding that were determined completely independent of whether any new income system had been established. Let us not forget that in connection with what nature passes, or the efforts of the Council to finance, it is intended to be paid only to the security of tourists in certain tourist areas and to try to distribute tourists in other places around the country. Then there's the rest. The big investment in accepting the increased number of tourists in the private sector is building a better hotel status, etc. It is with a greater variety of options for the tourist service, where the large sums of money come in. Regarding the direct or indirect income of the state of the growth of tourists, they have not been specifically combined and would eventually be just a plan. [[The president calls.]] However, there is no lack of government support in the building of these activities in the land. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u18	A respectable president. V.E.G. Agrienvironment schemes have described an interest in making contracts of up to 15 years with agriculture. I'm asking the highest. A minister whether he cannot see it in such a way that there is a clear explanation for each year's tax laws as to customs and subsidies. Thus, the debt of the government is made with a clear notice of budgeting each year. I ask because it is an important democratic principle that we can choose every four years for customs policies and contributions to individual sectores and that new more things can change policy. We also know from the past few years that if such circumstances arise, we have suffered severe losses in government matters and know that we need to be able to change our course quickly. But if it's such a priority, I'd like to say that it can be a good idea for the agricultural minister to make a long-term agreement, especially if it is created a wide structure. I think there is a wide agreement to ensure the advantage of farmers and to make use of, including by reducing the protection of customs in mutual contracts, a number of parishes that are on agriculture. In this regard, I would like to ask a minister about the following questions: Do Ministers think customs protection for the chicken industry should be similar for the next 15 years? I ask because the chicken industry cannot be considered a traditional agricultural industry, which involves the interests of banks rather than farmers. I'd like to describe my view that I feel that it is entirely incompetent to attach the huge tolls on these foods to consumers for the long future. It has to be distinguished, a respectable president, between agriculture and ensuring the survival of farmers and the chicken industry and the unhealthy environment around which it still exists.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u19	A respectable president. First of all, a discussion of high customs as a boy. A senator often talks and even calls supertools it's time to guess that Iceland will move out. The European Union reports the full use of customs because there is a high demand for noise in the European Union. Anything Iceland can move out beyond the European Union's tollgota is taxed by 300 k. a kilometer a ski, but sometimes people talk as if it's a special concept. It might now have seemed to be a fairly high 50 k. every 170 grams of dosing is applied. With all the livestock deals, they look like a whale. A senator entered this contract to enter the state's relationship with farmers, and this has, of course, been done before, and all such agreements made by humans are always dependent on approved financial laws at any given time. Of course, if a person makes a deal, the State will have to deal with them. I guess. A senator agrees with me that it is very important to see ahead of time that considerable investment times are ahead of us in agriculture. During the last term, new animal travel laws were adopted, and we have been setting regulations on the basis of them, requiring that in many cases and in most habitats a significant investment is required in order to meet those regulations. I guess the Senator agrees with me that there should be some agreement in the views established by the legislature and if that puts both laws and then rules of demands, it is reasonable that the sector can live up to that. Hence, it is better to look beyond the shortest time when a person needs large investments. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u20	A respectable president. Should I understand it so that it's the highest. Ministers don't consider the budget of each year? Even in the fallacies of the forwarding party to the debt of homes in the country, the minister thinks it is proper to have a clear notice of each year's funding. It must be the same thing here, because it is of course important to conduct a four-year term of elections in this category. Then I have to say, I don't fully understand the discussion. Minister for 300 bucks. But I agree with him that it is very exciting that we are facing the limitations of imports, which, in many respects, have created our own inactivity, because it is an enormous tool, including. ... andI havemany other good commercial products on the European market.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u21	A respectable president. I took this as an example of the recent discussions in Iceland that customs are merely a specialist phenomenon. Of course, they are not. Of course, it is not our inactivity to teach that we have not reached a contract with the European Union. We've had such discussions for some time now, but the European Union has delayed its discovery in two directions, unfortunately, since very positive things are happening, for both Icelandic manufacturers to move products into a foreign market and also to open up here for the change in import of various products. In fact, I'd like to say that all agricultural equipment in Iceland is a category of agriculture, not as industry, whether it's one branch or another. This has been a long - term plan for chicken farming, and it is compared to the heavy industry in some countries. has meant that for that product to be produced, it has had to be used in large quantities. Iceland is one of the countries with the largest use of such extras, far less than the largest country in the European Union, to be stated. [[The president calls.]] It is important to make clearly the future of Icelandic agriculture. [[The president calls.]] I think the Senator misunderstood me when I said that, of course, there are warnings about everything the state does, but when the state makes deals, they are expected to have such agreements. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u22	Mr. President. I think it is very important that we speak here at the General Assembly of less populated areas, the employment security of people in the less coastal areas, and the possibility of establishing permanent resources for a remote space defined as fragile. In the week, I made a pact proposal for the development of the broken - down settlements, along with them. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and Steinunn Þóra Árnadóttir. It is suggested that marine eco-efficiency and agricultural ministers be assigned to work on the forward policy framework for the development of fractured settlements in agreement with pooled organisations and other stakeholders. Among other things, in terms of the lower coastal areas, there will be the basis for the most sound markets, as well as for the best support measures, for increasing growth and stability in weak areas where agriculture, food production, and tourism are the basis for the urban population. The synonyms assume that the Ministers will provide a specific strategy for the development of broken - down households for the first time in the fall and then will be integrated by the government in regional affairs. No major problem has been overlooked in recent years by the loss of resources and uncertainty and unemployment of the population. We can go around the country and look at such places as Redfaring Harbor, Breinddal Louis, Hyavogs, Biltdals, Twelfth Farms, Tingeys, Flatyrs, South Island, and now at last received reports from Hólmavík that perhaps half of the Coastal resources would be sold away. Such insecurity is disturbing and affects the whole community, prices of possessions, and undermines belief in a society where they have invested and built up their own homes, and they want to continue living, but likely, with normal safety. In many parts of the world, growing numbers of people with reduced income and low income have to look for other ways to strengthen their habitats. But the ills of both sea and country have a common convergence to respond quickly and send a clear message to the inhabitants that governments will act in order to trust their foundation. There are various ways in which you can do this, along with the main source of resources. These include increased opportunities for education, telecommunication and telecommunication, investment in infrastructure, sponsoring new investments, subsidies, and building up the infrastructure in tourism to name something. The project Explosion based on Based on Based Office and began in 2012 at Redfarves, and the following year also at Roftár Jellows, Breindal Sgt. and Bilddal has shown that the ideology of working with the local people is an effective way to continue working with and build on. So I want to ask the highest. The following questions are: Tells you the highest. Ministers properly agree that there is a future policy barrier to the development of fractured areas? Tells you the highest. Ministers, for some reason, to have the highest resources to secure the security of my marine settlements, which are considered to be subversive settlements and lost permanent resources? Tells you the highest. A minister to say that the success of the 2012 Frastructure project, which began in 2012, has been achieved by whom? And how does he feel it right to continue working with it? In what way does the highest number seem. Ministers to promote support for other fractured areas where sea streets are not available and agriculture or tourism or other occupational services are the main functions? At the end, I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers to how he believes that further foundations may be built, primarily built on sea soil and agriculture, and now stand weak. I believe we need to send a very clear message to the people of the community from the Council. It is unacceptable that the inhabitants of these places live from year to year with the insecurity of knowing whether they will continue working, whether they will have to move away with their families, tear themselves up and leave their possessions, as many places do. The newest cases are Thyatira and Flatland, where there is still a situation of uncertainty. These people have paid their taxes and lived up to their social obligations. They must be looked forward to being not second-rate citizens, these are citizens who are in our community with a government decision: Should these settlements live? If not, it is more correct to make clear. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u23	A respectable president. It's a pleasure to have a pleasant evening. agnostic shares opinions with me and others. As shown in a policy-making plan for 2014-2017 that was approved here. In particular was this review of special measures in defense areas. It says that the primary goal of stopping persistent people from shrinking to smaller settlements and rural areas would be greater. A building agency has worked on the basis of the policy of implementation of this project, broken-downs based. It reaches four communities, but it may increase in that group this year, although the final result has not been reached for a number of participants. The project, which began in 2012, has been designed to re-evaluate the project on the progress to the progress being made and the experience collected. Among the factors to be considered is the objective criteria to establish on the definition of the Brothers, for what specific projects to be considered. Thus it can be said that while the primary objective is clear and clear, the implementation needs to be sharpened and a clear procedure made. In this regard, though, it is sobering to think that while the problems are often similar from one community to another, specific measures may be needed to resolve a problem. Too rigid general rules can prevent necessary flexibility. In terms of the structure of resources it is that within the fishing system, about 5.3% of the catch - ups are in line for structural projects. These are the general rural area, construction market, coastal fishing, line integration, shell and shrimping, and codfishing. According to some agreement, this is an acceptable percentage of the total. However, it is important that the arrangements for this item be made in a continuous review so that we will succeed in achieving the target. Recently, the Ministry performed an assessment of the Agency's work programme of experience and showed that this system has yielded to the desired results. The next steps, also in preparation, are to have a similar assessment of the other four systems and subsequent decisions on how they can develop best in the near future. In this regard, I would like to point out that two viewpoints are weighed there when it comes to the compounding of the oracles, the first by offering a certain amount of money, i.e. fish are not being caught and won in the most practical way possible. In contrast, there is, of course, that many relatively small quotas can ensure employment and structure in certain areas. Then I would also like to assume that it might be more convenient to make a requirement for this force to be won in the home, but this is not a requirement today. Regarding the project Breakouts based on how it went, it started 2012, as mentioned earlier, at Redfarves, at Bilddal, at the Synod Valley, and the Skaftár Jeep and has been evaluated in cooperation with Ernst & Young counseling agency. The results are expected in the next few weeks, but based on the results presented within the Ministry, the results are unequivocal. It differs from one side to another, and then it needs to be examined as to the factors involved, why is it more successful in some areas than in other areas. In this context, it is also important to bear in mind that only about 50 million were included in the budget for the Brothers. K. Over the last few years, but there are 100 million. K. This year. Even when included, this is still a small task. Regarding ways to promote support for other fractured areas, where not just a fishing route is a reduction in the population of the country's population one of the major challenges to rural development. Clearly, the reduction is driven by forces that in themselves are positive, i.e. The growth in agriculture is one of the factors, but unfortunately, it is so in many cases that those who disappear are not replaced by new opportunities. Unfortunately, on this occasion the rural areas are becoming thin and in many places there are serious problems in maintaining basic services at elementary and nurserys. The task, such as Fragives, may be useful in identifying the problem and achieving its views, but to address the problem, we are more likely to need to apply the agricultural support system in the same way as we use the seaside system. This requires large contributions to innovation and employment development in rural areas through Manufacturers' Fund or similar channels. I call attention to the fact that in the fishing system, we have so - called social objections, the 5.3% we just mentioned. If we were to use comparable parts of total agricultural support, we would use about 750 million a year to use farm change or other innovations in the countryside. Similarly, the European Commission can provide support for projects that can promote rural tourism and can include examples of these within the assignment of Brothers. I agree with the senator that it is important to strengthen the infrastructure, build up a job application area. One of the biggest projects the government has been working on these days is the fiber - optic system that will completely change the country's facilities for telecommunications, telecommunications, and telecommunications, for example. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u24	V.E.G. President. I appreciate the advisor, huh? paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir for starting a discussion about fracture prevention and the general situation in the community. It was interesting to note that when advertised applications to participate in this project during the last fall, ten applications were received. I think it's true what has already happened in the discussion, both in the seminary and in the highest. Minister, how important it is that we share in this work. A clear message has to be sent, such as why. A senator put it, and we need to keep in mind giving equal opportunities and creating equal equality between areas. If we are careful, there is no disagreement on this matter, that's just the question that we are alone in this. At the beginning of this assembly, the council made a resolution that discussed the settlements and should be based on strategy, which is the same as the appointment of a minister. The transport process is spoken of as essential to equal areas in the areas, roads, and public transportation. Fish disposals are said to run part of the seafront and to increase settlements in fragmentary areas. The word may disagree over the social part, how large it should be. Framework is referred to as an international agreement in investments, including in innovation and development in the country. The equation of house - to - house heating costs and the distribution of electricity is spoken of. There is talk of a share in the revenue of tourists to use for building up in all these areas. There is talk of electrical security, i.e. electrical energy distribution system. The housing issues, including rented houses, telecommunications, and high - speed network connections, the equations of transport costs and access to education and health care are discussed. Can we not join ourselves in that work? It takes money and a priority is needed to change it. We can add that this is when students in high school are not to be reduced or further weakened. We can also get these regional connections from hunting grounds through the Magisterium. I support the idea of looking at it because it's annoying that there's one decision that can be undermined in this business. We in the United States are prepared to support the government to protect the settlements and to improve the conditions for living, to balance the settlements, but we want general guidelines that give us the opportunity to change the protection of the parish rather than the handout operations for the country's settlements. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u25	V.E.G. President. During the last term, the current government, to be widely consulted by the Ministry of Presidency for national application programmes for the advancement of employment and quality to the future. The objective was to bring in a collective future vision and integrated policy strategy for transport, communications, travel, and rural development programmes, as well as the projections for the development of the rural government and various growth agreements. The project supported Maurau's National Conference in Saturday Hall, where 1231 participants from all over the country were involved in drawing out the nation's value, theme, and vision. The meeting served as a model for eight national meetings held in the 20/20 national parish program. Part of the shape of the vision was to shape a future career policy. In order to accomplish this, a special task group was formed, appointed representatives of the Committee on the Strategies of the Convention, representatives of all Parliaments and chairmans of the Scientific and Technical Council. One of the main objectives of this discussion project was that Iceland joined a group of ten of the most competitive nations in 2020. As noted on the Presidency Office website, the 20/20 parish program was attended by the above - mentioned National Conference. His values, honesty, justice, and respect were placed on the basis of all the activities of the project in which democratic approach to the project was of utmost importance. Each part of the country, every government agency, every local community, every workplace, and every family and individual has its own parish and its goal was to approach these parishs, they say, and integrate them, and finally use them to blow up the wind in their sails to the future. Thus, on behalf of the project, very broad consultations were under way, and it can be said that in one way and another, a well - equipped thousand men helped the project by providing their work and time. It's possibly the most ambitious parish and settlement program ever undertaken in Iceland, a program aimed at strengthening and strengthening all domestic and infrastructure in the country. One of the first works of the present government was to throw this plan and all this great work into calm. And I say, "Why on earth?"
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u26	A respectable president. First, I want to thank the advocate of this great need and good discussion. No question about it, there is a great willingness here to meet the weak. I think we also need to look outside the box and see the opportunities that are open to us locally. Of course, in many places the fish is the foundation of the job structure, but there are other opportunities to look at. I have agreed that there will be an inspection when a new fishing bill is submitted to a better fixture in the settlements, but there is, of course, a difficult way to do that. Still, it is important to try to make peace with her. We have learned that we need to stop the fear of people, we need to balance competitiveness, we need to make sure that young people want to stay home in scattered areas. This is very important, and for this, we need to start infrastructure in the country. We need a light - optic pool, we need to improve transport, and in many places three phases of electricity, telecommunications, and other fundamental factors to strengthen our habitats and keep the young people at home. It is also important that many companies now plan to travel for further construction of the country with a complete service core. The number of gas stations and information centres and other such stations will likely increase, as this year predicted an increase of 25%, by passengers to 1.3 million. It is the vast opportunity of the land that covers it, and it is the opportunity to be taken.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u27	A respectable president. I want to thank you first. A senator for bringing this important issue to attention about the growth of the weak. There is great concern that fear takes place in the country area where jobs cannot be done. There is a basis for working for the people who want to live there. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to the equal availability of the Internet for the people of the country as a basis for all kinds of employment, e.g. would hardly survive the tourism industry if it were not for the Internet. That's why I'd like to ask the highest. Ministerial how the results were measured, e.g. Regarding fracture risks based, and whether access to the Internet and the Internet itself have been considered an advantage in this case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u28	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Lilja Electrical Rafney Magnúsdóttir for taking the initiative in this discussion. I think there is a doubt that the methodology and approach produced by a eutrophication agency that conforms to the name Fragile settlements, has been successful, and is developing in the field of dealing with the population's population. Working with the inhabitants of the population and working specifically with the problems of the less advanced countries, surely, the right approach and success have been achieved. It is also apparent in the effort to increase the stability of fishing sources, even though there is only a relatively small amount, there is considerable success, and there is a significant difference between the loyalty of the fishing warrants and the fish industry and those involved in the history of three to five years, while the annual uncertainty of the state of their distribution. Just the stability of having a guarantee of three to five years for any amount of fishing resources creates a potential for building up that would otherwise be impossible. Sad to say, we have suffered severe trauma in the past losses and are naturally superior to places that are virtually terrestrial, at least because of local fishing grounds, according to Visis's decision to transport all the fishing warrants and operations from Deepvogur, Greece, and Húsavík. There is uncertainty in many areas, and there is the case with Gímney. As we discuss these matters, let us bear in mind that the people in these coastal areas do not rightly think that even if a few hundred tons of access comes back to the common resource of the people, they are being given one or something or a hand given them some charity. This is about returning some fraction of the access to the common resources of the people with which these settlements had been built, rather than to the fishing sources that have, in many cases, moved away for decades in the fishing areas in that area. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u29	V.E.G. President. First, I'd like to thank you for bringing up this important matter, which has become available in the country and its structure for the future. I think that when it comes to these matters, most of us are all in agreement that we want our country to be built and that the importance of a firm state and that the basic national sector, agriculture, and soils are the foundation of the country. We also know that the number of jobs has declined, and they have moved from smaller places. It is a challenge to deal with that trend, and it is clear that too long has not been achieved sufficiently in the construction and implementation of structural policy. It is therefore important that there is a wide degree of solidarity to meet the decline in the country's population and increase the number of jobs around the country. Therefore I rejoice in what has been presented here, that they agree on this. Very positive is the fact that there are 5% markets associated with structural projects and reconciliation, but there is a natural need to reevaluate and reevaluate all of this and see how it will be used. It is a pleasure to know that the objective of the Agency has been met. However, better management is needed, and it is important that additional factors be taken and not unusual for more affected areas to be developed. So I'm glad to be able to say now that a team of workers in the nation's fiber - optic industry was making up today. It's one of the basics and one way into the future to keep the country inhabited, and I'm glad we got to a place where we can start talking about it in real life. We all know that our children do not want to come home. They do not come to work on their assignments, and this is a sad result of their failure to see the future outside the country. I'm just celebrating it again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u30	V.E.G. President. A new view is needed on the basis of both those defined as fracture risk today and other communities that could become fragile after a few years. Interestingly, at local meetings that have been held in the four settlements defined this way, employment has always been the focus of people's minds on things that need to be corrected. As a result, more built - in fishing sources have to come up, and it is a question of whether the 5.3% taken apart is sufficient. I think it needs to be increased and should be taken seriously to take mackerel in there too. With regard to structure plans, I know the best way to get to Rausfa. It's an example of 40 months' work, the first time I've seen such a good plan in this regard. It is evident that increased fishing resources must always be the foundation of these places as they were when they were built up. I told you in the beginning that I need a new vision. I do not hesitate to say that we need to look more closely at the tax system and the tax returns in terms of fragmented areas and small settlements throughout the country and the rural region, that they should be brought in, as has been spoken of by a community plan but perhaps by a small amount. These routes have long been used by other Scandinavian nations. The lower taxes in the country meet little or no official service, the price of turning to public service and the fishing programs of the government over the past few years has been in the form of convergence and changes in the fishing process. I think if we want to show a great deal of power, we're supposed to go into the tax system and see how our neighboring countries are doing. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u31	Mr. President. I'd like to start by thanking the advert for this discussion, I forgot earlier. We need a long-term community plan, like Protocol 20/20. To me, there is no doubt that it is a great deal of justice that we support people who live in the inhabited earth who are now in palaces because of reduced numbers of people and fewer opportunities for employment. Has the fact that they have been able to move settlements to the weak? Has it been a good means to give strength and lasting support to employment there? I don't think so. It seems to me that there are some people who agree with that and are referred to in this connection to Stability of 2013, made by the Office. That's where even the two of them come from. ... tothattheengineering tools, the loans of a graffiti, along with the international support of the various partners through the years, have been unable to stop this trend, let alone turn it around. In view of the experience and the results of such action, Based cohesion and cohesion of markets to support castle-based settlements is required to evaluate the efficacy and the effectiveness of such measures. If we use community connections and settlements to solve settlements, we need to be absolutely sure that these methods will be sufficient to change much of the population's long - term status. Has this been demonstrated? I don't think so. Would it not be more reasonable to maximise the cost of fish farming and then make use of some of it to build up more employment opportunities in areas that are weak so that they can become more sustainable in the long term so that they feel that they are desirable to live in both young and old farms? We need to find new ways, but not similar to those that have not been successful so far, and we must also look for the development of technology in fishing and fish farming, so there are always fewer and fewer hands who have to do those jobs. I think we should use our money to make these settlements money to build up for future employment that is suitable for our modern society. We have a limited resource where the fish is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u32	A respectable president. I appreciate this discussion, it's very important. There is no need to turn to any questions about the purpose of the then government, i.e. the then state of the forwarding administration of the Agency, the Allied Party and the Common Community, by allowing expeditation in the fishing system to take place. Today, we have a more efficient fishing route and are a model for other nations to be successful in doing so. This, of course, was the purpose of the forethought. So these problems or effects were somewhat predictable, i.e. This would lead to a degree of compression and reduction in the article. Who, then, failed? I think the government has failed, the governments that went on to fail in trying to build up other opportunities for the country along with this. I think it's very important that we look much at how we can react today. What can we do? For example, we now watch what the fish fire is doing in the west, a paracentesis factory that is in the west and is entering the Stykkisolm. We'll see what effect and expectations are tied to the left-green bill on the great design of Backcoats. There is great optimism and surely has a positive effect there. We need only watch Faraway as an example of the good effects of changing employment patterns. What prevents the development of the land today? We've been listening recently to the head of rural society in Northern and Eastern countries that don't get electricity. New job opportunities, companies who want to come to the place, but they cannot be given electricity because we can't move to them electricity. We are also stopped by activation, so it limits us very much to the region to build up additional work opportunities. We need to look at the overall picture of this, look into new opportunities for the country's construction. Transport is an important part of this in which job areas will expand and communications and the steps being taken by the present government will make a huge difference. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u33	Mr. President. I want to thank you for your fine conversation. It has been shown that members of the general body of Congress are involved in looking to the weak and trying to strengthen them. But I'd also like to state that they're not calling for any charity. They call for sustainable living from the good things of the land that resulted in the development of these settlements in their time. It is only a matter of justice, whether we speak of settlements or of other forms of support, and the self - determination of these people, the descendants of those generations who have built these villages and our forces up to us, the generation of this country that is here and is in control of this country, show the respect to return what has been taken back from these areas by ruling decisions, whether in the food system, in land management, or other ways. We can do this if we have the will. It is said that there is a 5.3% agreement in the militaristic activities of the present quota system. This is not acceptable; neither does it matter how these things are taken care of. Today, there is no one of the most founded resources, to be clearly said. It's not. The graffiti comes and goes and is not bound to any settlements today. The way he is, there's no doubt about it. What I'm talking about is that the greatest source of resources will be available in one way or another for the sick and thus create a basis and security for the people living there. As the arrangement today means that possessions are worthless, and people have no vision for themselves and their families. I think we, who live in the capital area or other people living in urban areas, should put ourselves in the position of these people and try to work from them. [[The president calls.]] But I think this discussion was good and I hear it. A minister is positive, and I hope that the body of Congress proposals that I and others in the left green have introduced into this discussion, and it shows the will of action.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u34	A respectable president. I agree that the discussion here has been good and perfunctory. It has been found that everyone is more and less agreeing that it is important to take firm action on these settlements. I also believe that in spite of the great words of old, all can agree that there was so little work to be done. Now we are trying to handle this clearly. I'm glad that there are great convergences among members of Congress on this subject. People run away, yes, they are. Yet, they have never lived more in the country than they do today. In contrast, environmental trends within different parts of the country have been significant. I don't expect any senator to be referring to the promotion of regional development as it appeared in 1950 or 1980 or 2010. On one occasion, Eyarbakki was the capital city of Iceland and the legislature meeting in the United States. Things change and will continue to change. I think four main work projects will best be used in our efforts to turn this around, obviously in the marine waters. Clearly, in the agricultural region we are farming and we need to make partial use of these sectors. They can't carry it alone, that's all there is to be done. Travel services come in all of these places, and there is a public service that is large in all the settlements of the country. These four things need to be done. We need to ensure that our basic services, such as the present government, are making a massive effort in the photoengineering process. Of course, because of the circumstances, this was shown in the local meetings. paritaprevir Pirata, Ásta Helgadóttir, asked about it, that the only requirement is that people have proper Internet connections. They are the key to the future. We know, and that's why the government is ensuring it. On the other hand, if we cannot secure basic services, it is normal, as was shown in a core plan adopted last year to examine the tax system. [[The president calls.]] It is also obvious if we are going to do more than regularly talk about this with beautiful words at the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u35	A respectable president. We talked about this a few days ago and for good reason. It turns out the bill is the highest. The secretary of finance entered the council is completely neglected. In the meantime, while it's still on the 1st. Environment, representatives of the Ministry of finance have placed the Council's Economic and Business Committee and there realized that the Ministry requested a significant change in the matter. I have to say, for the council, I find an observation subject to an important matter of financial markets, as if this were going to be through the 1st. by means of the Ministry itself, which has prepared the case and prepared for Congress, while the matter is still in question in 1st. to look for material changes in the fact that only those who earn money in foreign coins can borrow, which is the point we made at the beginning of the year 1. In such a case, you wonder what it will do to handle the matter in 1st. if it is not finished by the Minister. So I think I'm going to leave this night at this time and wait for a financial and business committee to take care of the situation and make these changes to what is obviously necessary, and even the Ministry's request for it, and we'll discuss the case when it's well worked here until 2nd. I don't think this is the kind of work I'm trying to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u36	Mr. President. The matter is not neglected. It's ready for the council. It is possible, however, to have similar opinions about how the target of the one described in the bill is achieved. It is not that the Ministry requested a meeting with the Committee before the case, but there has been some communication between the leading committee and the Ministry on precisely whether an adjustment of the text would be made in any other way, although these same objectives will continue to be achieved. I trust the committee well to review those views. That's exactly what's so good about the arrangement we have, not making laws, but bringing bills here to make a thorough examination, and we'll do it not in one discussion, but three. Is this not evidence that this arrangement is good? This situation is well - founded on criticism and opinion. I'm sure we'll find a good landing on this point without the primary objective of the bill being sacrificed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u37	A respectable president. I'll agree with the highest. A minister of the fact that we're sure to find a good landing on this case, and we're good at it during the council. I'm sure the members of the Economic and Business Committee will be able to handle it this way. Of course, the rest is out of order, chief. Minister, when representatives of the Ministry appear before a Senate committee while the matter is still up to 1st. and discuss changes in important elements of the bill that have just been measured and are still on the 1st. To be honest, I don't remember it to happen. It is a mistake that the Ministry's representatives were called in front of the committee during the year 1st. was not finished. Thus, the lack of knowledge is likely to result. The matter should not be discussed in the Committee until the year 1. is over, but the Ministry's representatives present changes to the bill before 1st. I think I'm all alone. Of course, we assume that the administrative body has already reviewed some key issues, such as this and the management coverage. I assume the government bill has been submitted, and I also assume that it has been submitted by members of the Constitution for discussion. Of course, this treatment should ensure that there is a well-prepared and well-prepared bill to 1. and that when we discuss them here in 1st. Are we discussing the final motion of the administrative body, not that the Ministry itself comes in with a change in form when the ink is hardly dry on the Senate document? This has to be something fixed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u38	Mr. President. I come here merely to explain that it is not that the ministry's initiative has taken place but that it has been requested by the Committee that the Ministry should come to the Committee with a view to whether this specific paragraph can be developed in other ways. That discussion is followed directly by a discussion at the Assembly Hall. The bill may well stand as it is brought into the council, but if the council wants to change it, the Ministry is ready to help or to reason on how these changes could be made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u39	A respectable president. Although it was of great importance that there is a higher priority on the executive project than there is in this case, the main issue is that there is no return to the high-risk loans that were committed to public and corporate loans. Therefore, if the Ministry's will is to work with the Economic and Business Committee, it is a good thing to make changes in the administrative bill to ensure that those loans may have to have income in the same currency or sold property in the same currency. We must learn from the bitter experience that lends such loans in the years before collapse was for both people and businesses in Iceland.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u40	Mr. President. In this joyful morning, what a privilege and a pleasure it is to share in this discussion with the wise men here on machines! I'm so happy to see you finish your seat. The secretary of the budget is in charge of this discussion, which, of course, is a key discussion and may be met by many other ministers, even higher than the government, from which it learns something. I have not held a talk under this matter, but I have listened and learned, and I have put my opinion on things, such as the technical management of the situation. I have come to believe that it is right to have this in the way suggested in the bill, that considerable power is being transferred to a financial arena and to the Federal Bank. I think it's good, and the reason is that I think men can get better if they have to. However, I agree with it as a matter of course. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon said earlier in this discussion, it's a good option to build in some kind of legal way that, for example, a part of rural society can borrow foreign loans. I also want to make it clear after this discussion that I have the deepest sympathy. Minister when he brings this case. He may not do so with great joy. Of course, the fact is that the ESA has been swinging his rod over us and finding the ban that was adopted during the last term and the highest. Minister is answering that. Over the ghost of a lawsuit. This has shown the opinion of various members of Parliament that this should be tested. That's what I'm saying, though it's the best. A minister is a member of a class other than me, that he is entrusted with handling financial matters on behalf of the state, and if he and his experts have read and reviewed the matter, and have concluded that it is not worth the effort to try to test that we are members of the EEA, I support him. If it is in the interests of Icelandic interests, we will hold him back from doing so. I don't believe he's the only one who's doing anything but letting Iceland's best interests go. It's like the highest. The question of how we defend this way is being answered by a minister who answered that question earlier. V.E.G. A minister receives an ESA's recommendation, so he intends to allow these gang trust and foreign loans, but, apparently, he is trying to achieve the goal of banning them. All right, I've made comments in the early stages of a case that I've been thinking better and counting - and I'm waiting for the highest. Minister not to go to that part of my speech - that there are scruples on this bill. V.E.G. A minister has rightly said that if a person goes along to allow a loan of this kind, it will be with regard to the experience of the Icelanders to make such a mess that it will not be able to bring the nation to nothing again. The best way to do that is by the minister's opinion, and I also think most of the people here have said that they can only take those loans that make money in foreign currency. It says, in effect, that there are companies in the export. I can accept that, and I agree with the Minister until this point. But then the minister, although not so clear in the bill, said that he felt that those who had enough possessions and a great deal to make themselves well - adjusted could also go that way. He put it in such a way that he wanted them to enjoy the doubt. It must be, then, that those who may have the doubt are not just individuals who are rich and who have no income in currency but also businesses whose size makes it well enough and who may also be able to destabilize property. Of course, if that happens and then there will be gang swings that lead to the need to destabilize possessions, they will be competing for market currency. As a result, a dollar weakens and leads to the richness of those who are not allowed to go that way, good health, also weakens. I'm going to let you know that I'm going to have to say that I'm going to be the leader of the class. A minister is creating a potentially harmful effect on the others, and when I connect the petition with the bill we talked about yesterday, I'm afraid that this is the highest route. Minister be right. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u41	Mr. President. That's what I'm talking about. A senator brings up a valid view. We have this bill trying to promote financial stability, which is the second main theme under the bill. The other is to deal with the problems we have faced because of excessive borrowing. But there is a great double - skinn in the law they are today, that is, full of freedom to borrow foreign loans, an absolute prohibition against having a successful loan. In this, there is a great twin tongue. We go so far in this bill to say: "It's one and the same thing really, when you look better. Although the effect may be different, we fall under the concept of foreign loans, both in favor of loans and foreign loans, and we place it in the bill quite narrowly. Here is the question: Is it necessary to ensure financial stability to go so far as to limit loans in foreign currency solely to the borrowing of money and/or property? What a great tribulation that would be in a free flow of capital! There are questions about whether or not we would need to apply for ESAs to get that approved. The bill does not follow this route. Rather, it assumes that if a person has a strong estate, he should be able to free his property and enter the currency market. If there are waves of such matters, it can certainly take on the masses, but we also have other resources, such as the personal funds we are discussing here, to deal with them, and to press on to the financial system with them new resources, so that if the loans of this type would be made more difficult for the banks to continue. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u42	Mr. President. I see at the top. A minister has understood exactly what I was saying to him that at this point I do not want to call criticism but comment. In the first part of the discussion, the highest was explained. Never since it might be in opposition to the EEA Convention's free capital transport regulations if we simply banned foreign loans and walked loyalty to people like me and him who are not in business or who have income in a foreign currency. It may be a strange match, but it's still equal. I experience it as an inconsistencies to myself and to others in my situation that some others may go this way, i.e. enjoy the doubt, as it were. Minister said, but there's still freedom, and I can understand that idea of freedom. I understood it well when it came to it. paritaprevir Andersen's victory tore exactly his attitude, and I don't care if people have freedom to do things that I can't do when they don't hurt me and those I stand for. His talk made the highest sense. Minister of this exact procedure and said that under certain circumstances, i.e. If many people go this way and there's some sort of disposal of a market that will cause many at one time to destabilize their possessions and invade the currency market, this can have a serious impact on the status of the crown and, hence, on the benefit of the public. I'm absolutely certain that in the first chapter of the implementation of these laws, people will be strict and careful. And then time goes by. Then the second bill goes to the one we were discussing here yesterday, men become a little involved with the proposals, and the bankers are in a position to enter this temptation, men who benefit from counseling men. We were also talking about payment records, so I fear that this may be a danger, given the highest ideologies. Ministers that he wants to go far to grant freedom, but it must not be at the expense of the public. Looks like there's a chance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u43	Mr. President. For this reason, it is important that monitors be aware of what is going on in this area and have resources to manage if there is a risk of building up in the system. Then there is a matter of opinion as to how far the lawgiver should go at any time to prevent such risks from building up, possibly in the future, because the more successful the individual's financial freedom is becoming. In this regard, consider one example. If we were to say that no one else is allowed to borrow foreign loans than those who earn money in foreign currency or who have a lot of money in foreign currency, it could not prevent them from taking Icelandic loans and then do other consequences, which actually set them up in the same position, e.g. A interest deal that said: I'm going to pay for the growth of the U.S. dollar that it is today, and I'm getting out of interest under the deal I'm on for a dollar. So the future would reveal the consequences to the individual, but they were essentially the same as he had borrowed a foreign loan, i.e. We will never be able to prevent all such risks, no matter how far we go.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u44	First of all, I'm probing that people enjoy as much freedom as they can as they can while doing so does not harm other individuals. It's a prince's stand. Second of all, I don't live or I don't live the highest. The financial and economic secretary to the perfect world, but what we're trying to do with this bill, the bill that we talked about yesterday, and probably more that come later this year, is creating a world of financial resources in which there is a risk of major and intense fluctuations that can have unexpected and negative consequences for the benefit of the people as the highest. Minister is elected to secure. I point first, that I believe that the way to the highest. Ministers are going, and I call letting those who are strong-tried enjoy the doubt and get to spreckering on the market, may be unfortunate. Second, I'm pointing out that if you try to look over time, you might see that the perspective on this bill and what we talked about yesterday could have disastrous consequences. I know it's really close for the highest. A minister might think of the possibility of banning loans of this kind to all, companies and individuals, who do not have income in a foreign currency, but I believe that there is a way that can be considered only to be a problem in the committee. That's what I'm saying for two reasons, but there's an equality in it, although it may be strange to the highest degree. Further, a minister reduces the likelihood that the freedom of those with great possessions can, in the end, have unfortunate consequences for those who cannot enjoy this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u45	V.E.G. President. I recommend a bill to correct a change in investment insurance law, and an investment insurance system, no. 98/1999, with subsequent changes. The reason why the bill is stated is that the insurance fund of the depositors and investers of the Ministry would address December 18th, and that the fund would be regarded as not as a financial firm in the sense of a financial firm and would therefore use insurance protection under the insurance laws and insurance systems for investors. At the same time, the Ministry's attention to law was made to the certainty of the situation. The objective of the bill is to make it clear that an enterprise that has been taken away or returned its work permit as a financial enterprise does not have the protection of the deposit system. For a detailed discussion of the terms TIF is found in comments on the bill. No one needs to question the need for legal uncertainty to be eliminated by the presence of the fallen financial agents, so it is important that the bill take priority here at the council. When I use the word swelling matrix, I'm actually referring to the position I referred to in front of, the financial company being treated. The bill is expected to gain legal value immediately after approval and publication. In addition, since pay is collected quarterly and due date, the end of each quarter will be one month, it is also important to make clear on the validation note when payment will be due to the loans of former financial companies. Remunerations collected during previous periods are not expected to be reimbursed because of the same deposit. In that few factors that are relevant to the position of depositors and depositors and investors. The financial law has been revised constantly. Monitoring sources have been strengthened, managers' responsibilities have increased, all the laws on relationships and high risk have been reinforced, financial support requirements have been increased, and so on. The deposit insurance laws have been changed. A new deposit insurance department has been set up and completed commitments related to financial events and commitments related to the deep vessels in the restored financial companies. There have been laws on financing and responsibilities and the cooperation of Iceland's Central and SEC. All of these changes have contributed to a safer financial market. There are countless cases in favor of financial disaster, and they have destroyed uncertainty that was certainly there when the government's proclamation was issued in October 2008 that man was not concerned about his deep speeches. The collection in the new DITU insurance department, which is a guarantee to the heart accounts of the currently functioning institutions, has been successful. At the end of the last year, the department's budget was about 14.6 billion. and had increased by less than 4 billion since the previous year. In accordance with European Commission Directive on make-up insurance, Member States shall ensure that no later than 2024 will be included in the Member State budget at least 0.8% of the committed central nervous system. At the end of the New Year, loyalty was a factor of 1,163 billion. on credit bills in this country. Has TIF, i.e. The insurance fund, already over 5 billion more than these called minimal requirements. As mentioned above, work is being carried out in the introduction of two EU policies on deposit insurance and financial payoffs. The aim is to make it possible for the fall council to submit their bills to their introduction. There are a number of new indicators and changes in these new insurance directives. These include the protection itself. First of all, it will be permitted, although the protection is climaxed, i.e. 100 you have. Euro, providing additional protection for a particular period of time in special circumstances such as real estate and purchases. Second, protection must be allowed to be given to smaller communities, but in current regulations, each individual public member is protected. The petition is more closely addressed on the cooperation of deposit insurance and the government and the return funds referred to in the English '-resoluteness conferences' in the United States, which are published by the European Union. Not only will it be permitted but it will actually be obliged to take advantage of funds to share in financing insurance and, also, much more likely, of greater trauma, to make use of the deposit insurance system to share in the financing of bridge banks. The Directive for return management contains regulations that some of us may be familiar with from the emergency law provided at Congress in the autumn of 2008, although the publication is much more detailed in the directive. The red thread in that directive is twofold; to protect the internalisation of those who fall under the insurance system and prevent the costs of damage to the business of individual financial companies from landing on common funds. The time will be further explained to these two basics. But in this situation, it is important that we take the initiative in the financial situation of wear-off therapy and respond to the information of bail, which says that since financial companies are not considered to be financial companies in the sense of legal legislation on financial companies, insurance protection is theirs. While there is no reason to maintain that condition, and in any case, if this interpretation of the guarantee fund is correct, as it may be, to have differing views, it is wise for the council to take a stand for the change laid down here and to exclude financial companies in this insurance treatment. I suggest after 1st. if the bill is directed to what. The Economic and Business Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u46	Mr. President. I have to admit, when I first heard it, I got the laugh papers. The secretary of finance declares that the great European Union was taking up several loads of supplies from the emergency laws we created here on the autumn days of handouts and at great speeds. This underscores how well these laws have proved to be for us. I'd like to say that I disagree with the interpretation indicated in the business of the deposit insurance to the highest. Minister. But if there's a need to eliminate legal uncertainty, I suppose I do. Back then, people would not want these habitats to live as long as they have. This was examined at the time, and the men weren't of that opinion, but I'm sure I'm sure I'll spend all the uncertainty there and be happy to accept this bill. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of one technical question: Are you ready to settle into the fund? I'm just not smart at that, if you know what I mean. Minister knows. On the one hand, without the fact that I've been plowing the highest. A great minister by asking for a walk in a penitentiary who, of course, means that I'm finally winding up this stretcher farm, I'm amazed at the height of my life. Minister and government to have the situation in this situation. I ask, despite all his good statements, including... In this morning, for some form of land vision: Why not make sure that they are unable to continue in their present situation? Finally, Mr. President, when can we expect the ultimate. Minister, because it's related to this case, would you bring bills of deposit to the final hatching of the High Council? And I ask him also in the matter of saying, Is that in the board?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u47	Mr. President. As I went on to say, in the advance talk, the payment on previous periods is not expected, but it means that I stress that this case will be done as long as there are no insurance fees due to financial management during the next pay period. These collections have been based on the credit interpretation that financial companies in therapy use insurance protection, so they have been paying punitive fees. By agreeing with the bill for the next application period, you can avoid being reassigned and thus taken away from your insurance protection. It's like a whisk. A senator turned up, an interpretation of the law, but this is the understanding of the guarantee fund, and he performs the law in this way, and I think it's right, without me saying who is actually the correct legal interpretation, that we make a decision about this. As for the next step on duty, I've been that way for a long time, and I've made it official that it's very unfortunate that my wornouts didn't complete their contracts. This is unfortunate in the first place because in the upcoming of a delinquency programme the problem is a significant risk factor, but it is no less unfortunate because of the arrangement adopted at the time for having it through its owner's systems an exception from a suitable law as an active owner of the banks. I've considered that if people were to change it, they'd need someone to take care of it, but hopefully we'll solve it all at once, get a healthy possession of the Icelandic financial system and get rid of the oceans at once. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u48	Mr. President. I think it's important that there is as much convergence as there can be about the actions that will be taken in when people start cutting down their currency heads, and that's why I haven't been participating in discussions about this, but I believe in the highest degree. Ministers to the extent of my kindness that I am a considerable Korean in my progress. I'm a little surprised at the long-term attitude of the highest order. A government has shown these people. Of course, I don't have access to everything that's going on, and I don't sit in any committees and I've never been on a platform where I've been able to monitor it, except through the media, but it seems to me that it's the highest level. The government has left this place very unscrupulous. The only time I've mentioned those matters here, I rejoiced when a statement arrived last year about it from the highest level. The government that it might in some way favor set the time limit for how long it might exist. It also puts pressure on them to do ◯. I disagree with the highest degree. Ministers for wearing out and making banks a major part of the discharge of the currency stores needed to be solved. I think they're the biggest uncertainty factor, and maybe the most important thing to solve, and I'm also thinking that it needs to be solved before you attack the whole jump. I can say that I disagreed with the highest degree. A minister earlier in this winter, when he spoke in such a way, to what extent? paritaprevir Katrín's daughter, Jakobsdóttir, said that somehow it could be avoided and that some way she could start cutting currency heads, I don't feel it's totally working. But I thank you very much. Minister for the punitive information. If so, me and the highest. Ministers would agree this is controversial, at least. absolutely clear, considering that the fund has collected punitive fees, that the fund has been in other cases until now. [[The president calls.]] It's just that way. [[The president calls.]] Those who pay wages will be protected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u49	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the speech and the bill, I think that's an improvement. On the other hand, I don't think it's very important because the amount today is limited to 23 you. Euro, but once the law's changed, it's 100 yous. Euros per social security number. This may be a question for three stretchers about 300 yards. Euro, maybe someone else will come in. In fact, it's completely small, beans in the great well that these companies have. In addition, the misunderstanding has been made that they pay the tax. It's the banks that keep the deposit and then they don't have to pay for it afterwards. What I wanted to ask you is about home. That's what I said. Minister that it would be 1,163 billion of the core stakes in the deposit insurance system. Of these, only half are homes, and the question is, Should anyone other than home be assured, i.e. Each partner, company, and other people should enjoy the same guarantees as individuals with their own accounts. I feel like I need to roll it up. And then, naturally, the whole set-of-the-art insurance system is, in my opinion, Platemkin tents, i.e. Whether or not to show up. There's no guarantee behind the deposit insurance because if anything happens in such a small country as Iceland and most other European countries there's nothing in these funds. 0.8% is by no means sufficient to cover the damage that can be done, despite being directed by the local priority right now in the distress laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u50	Mr. President. First, when it comes to the importance of excepting the worn - out, it is not far from it. A senator says it's in terms of accounts and social security numbers, but as the law is today, there's no maximum. It is a minimum insurance policy, and the requirement could eat up all the property of the fund, as we have known examples. Then it is very interesting to discuss and interesting about the insurance system in general. The discussion will no doubt be taken when the bills are ready and will appear in the coming fall as I have proclaimed. There is no state responsibility behind the system, and the internal insurance systems are useless in all major financial problems. They can still seize smaller individual financial companies and save them, but it is then considered whether the government will want to perform the internal insurance system in a way that allows the insurance system to make a debt of more money than is in the fund at any given time against making it up in the future, similar to what insurance thinking is often built up, i.e. people go through difficult times and good times. That's how some others have been solving it. However, the important thing is that it is quite clear, as it is clear today, and confirmed by the EFTA Court, it must be clear when we bring up this insurance system that there is no State responsibility behind the system. If the funds are wiped up by shocks, then there is no obligation in the state, the state has instituted the rules as it should be, in order to improve what is lacking. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u51	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. He said the funds could be eaten up. There is no accelerator there, they will be eaten up even if it is a minimization or a small injury if even one savings goes to the head and the money they own didn't get to the depths is 14 billion nothing to make up for that loss. Then it would be revealed immediately that this is a fake world, that it is being given insurance and that depositors would get nothing. As is true of many other things brought along by the European Union - many things come from the European Union, but many are designed to create some kind of artificial world, creating a security that does not exist or to appear, making safety that does not exist. The basic insurance system is a very obvious example. It's going well, as long as it doesn't happen. But as soon as the minimum happens, if a bank falls by 20%, 30% of the market share in that country, which is much in the European Union, this is no guarantee. Then the question is, What happens? Will people just watch the depositors eat up the deposit insurance and it disappears and there's no way to make it better, and then what? Will the Kingdom really sit down and do nothing? I'm afraid that if it's called deposit insurance and is set by the government, the state will run for it. The new directive that should be implemented in the fall includes expected to be paid out within seven days. Who will bridge the gap during the seven days? Who is to lend short - term loans other than the state?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u52	Mr. President. That's exactly the tip of the question. A senator, and it is important that all discussions about the insurance system be based on that correct information. I remember the time when the state of deposit insurance was being discussed at the council then it was remembered on the economic and business committee that the deposit insurance and the whole system would be broke, but it would be an important thing because it would give such a good feeling, a sense of trust to the system, and sometimes it would be the only thing the system would have to do. This, of course, is at the same time a very dangerous thought because this good feeling is also accompanied by confidence and confidence in the reality of what is implied. Because of that lack, many governments were forced to take the problem of the banking system in their arms and thus owe the future taxpayers to replace the badly damaged and defective system. This needs to be discussed openly and informed people about the true nature of the insurance system. For the indication of why. Perhaps it was not a reason to provide as broad protection as it is today, and it referred to the lawyers, then the system is built up today that some are divorced, not protected. I feel that there is also a view of the benefits, benefits, and failures of a greater degree of legalization so that individuals will have the relative better position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u53	Mr. President. It's only a matter of time to pay for this little bill's street. I had not realized in itself that the situation was that there was a need to make a special decision that some indecisions, if any, were to make sure that those who did not use insurance protection, certainly no reason. Now, as it is known, with the law of emergency, the requirements of a nest were placed in place, so that, on its own, it is, of course, very well and the internal insurance system is intended to be available to trays in functional financial companies and those who are taking over loans at any given time, and to create some confidence in it or to reduce the concern of the people that their money is not guaranteed in banks and savings and after the events of other companies that are to take over. Then there is a whole new discussion that we do not have to spend much time here on how that arrangement is to be permanent and the future changes in the water of those substances and for as long as it has been. Nevertheless, we have built up a fund in the new department of Instabilization Insurance, which then exists to become a foundation for that permanent system. But there are conflicting opinions, as we know. What I think is a reason for me to take in the highest. The secretary of finance after this case, and only in the discussion of the bill to be passed on to the financial firms we've been discussing in recent times, the question about the Universal Declaration of the State is that any deposit in banks and savings is assured and whether there is someone to be expected in the way of winding off it, or taking a direct step in that direction, for example, at some point this no longer applies to large deposit areas, legislation, unions, etc. I imagine it wouldn't be unwise to twist off the old declaration that I know nothing more than the present government has set its back, as if it were the previous two governments from 2008 in some such phases. Certainly, the banking system today, at least by the large banks, is so well funded and equipped that there should be no least reason to keep such a declaration against a people. It was and is and has never been more than political, based on the support of the greater part of the Generals of any time and in itself, I don't think, not even a disagreement. This has been a political declaration that if it did happen, the processing of industrial loan companies that had trouble, that everyone's inner parts were saved, and that we've been through the collapse and everything that has happened since then, certainly with expenses for the state in one case where Cheflavour's savings, which was so badly successful that property would not work against the heart parts. I'm actually thinking, because we were discussing the internal insurance systems and are talking about them, that the State's costs were normal to go to the insurance fund and then to his old department after an incident, because she hasn't gone out, the best I know, and the commitments that she would have in some small way could have survived if there were still a different case, but there's another story. I would've liked to hear from the highest. Financial and economic ministers where these issues are, for of course, it's consistent. We can certainly discuss it better on a committee and review it, but, in fact, a man had forgotten that it's been two years to be replaced, and still nothing has been heard about how he intends to perform this global insurance declaration, the broke-cannati, so called, a respectable president. As early as 20103/42011, people wondered how it would be the most reasonable way to wind down that matter, but the situation is still the case, and I hope to the highest degree. A minister can tell us something about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u54	Mr. President. I'm glad that there's an excellent subset of this case and that there seems to be a way to get paid here at the council after a reasonable opinion, and it matters, as I've mentioned earlier, from the insurance fees. But there are also several other factors. First, I'm going to mention recovery of the government's expenses because of what the government fund has put out to ensure that it is settled. I have it in a special examination in the Ministry whether it is possible for the state to recover from the deposit insurance system from the cost that can be shown to be a direct result of the government's making arrangements to ensure that it exists, mainly being looked to SKef. That's an opinion. Second, regarding the declaration that appeared in the fall of 2008 and was later repeated by a special government release, it is important to bear in mind the legal situation, as it were. A senator came in. In other words, there is no state responsibility for deep things. It also built an end to the U.S. government lawsuit for the EFTA Court in the Icesave case and he stood there. At one time, a political declaration was issued because of the circumstances that existed back then. The present government has not seen a reason to accept that declaration, specifically making it its own, or to reiterate it in any way, which is especially referred to in the circumstances of the world. I feel that it is a matter of opinion, however, whether there is a reason to make this decision specifically in these areas and will discuss it with a system committee and in a financial arena the next time we come together. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u55	Mr. President. I think there's a good reason, because I'm in part hearing news here because it's been brought up, and it's never been denied that the repeated declarations of two governments would continue. Now informs the highest. Secretary of finance that the present government in itself did not specifically adopt this or make this its declaration. All right. But I still think that if she wants to change the situation, she'll have to do it in a positans way. Were we to accept this as a special declaration that the older ones had fallen? I don't think so. This was, at least in our case, formally discussed in the government and based on the results of a government meeting. I think on two occasions we've taken it out to prevent any anxiety, that the 2008 then-president of the 2008 government is in full force and that it would be worked out on our part. And it matters, and at this it's been tested, as we know. I'm celebrating the declaration. The secretary of finance to believe that this is an opinion, that the State is trying to build a case, and to some extent restore the cost of the state because of the efforts of my financial companies, which were always in trouble with the aim of ensuring all the circumstances, but in at least one case, and indirectly, in other cases, the cost of the State in these areas fell, on the other hand. But it's totally obvious, and it doesn't have to multiply that this is a matter of the type and degree that it must be completely clear what the formal, legal situation is, or let's say political, good and good. [[The president calls.]] It will be considered in a financial arena, and it is expected in some way that soon the situation will become clearer in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u56	Mr. President. As I turned aside in my language, a statement was published at the time in the circumstances that existed then, and it was important, and it produced a lot of results. The present government has not seen reason to make a prior declaration specifically because there is an entirely different situation. Now it may be so highly appreciated by the law that the State is not responsible for the deep financial systems of the Icelandic economy. And I'd also like to remind you that we have made arrangements in the laws that guarantee the priority of property, if such cases arise to test the internal position, but it must not be taken out of this overall context that there have been legal adjustments that will strengthen the very state of the somewhere else. I shall not rule out that it may be important for the system to specifically update the situation, and I will see to it that it will be discussed in the System Risk Management Board and then in the financial arena thereafter. But no one should doubt who the legal situation is, and, of course, the will of the government stands to defend the position of its tenants by any means available and to go as far as it goes, and fair and reasonable, it is expected of governments at any given time; however, the present government has not published one total-blannicogaretti.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u57	Mr. President. Nevertheless, I feel that this exchange of words was informative, and I believe that it is very important that the formality in this subject be clear. The legal situation is one, that's right, and there's the set priority requirements, that's not been changed. However, the past losses have been carried out to shape the future budget for broken financial companies, and in the meantime there are principles that were used by the emergency laws on the priorities of the administrations. Of course, I think they should continue to do so, but this is a matter of the sort that should not be left to any uncertainty about it, even if it is. So it is rightly noted that circumstances have changed, and we have very strong funds for the big banks with lots of money and space funds, so that there is no reason to make the shoes so that there is any risk of running there or trouble, but it can, of course, never be ruled out that there is a problem in any less financial institution or that there may be some form of suspicion and then it needs to be very clear; what is the position of the users in that case. There is absolutely no reason to cause agitation anywhere where it is not needed or can be avoided. Thank you very much for yourself. Minister for his answers. They have explained the situation. I recommend that he let the lawyers look at it, simply out of general firmness in the administration, whether it would be that many judges would be considered to be so that the clear statements of the two failures of governments, which have not been dropped by the new decision of the seated one, are considered to have the position that they are still with the people, although it may be correct, and I do not doubt the Supreme Court. The minister would rightly say that the current government has not declared its extension.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u58	Mr. President. I'm gonna say it like hell. paritaprevir Steingrimur J. Sigfússon to me that this was a fairly large political statement at the highest level. Minister moved here earlier. In this regard, the situation must be clear. V.E.G. The minister rightly stated that the political proclamations were made under special political circumstances. He also said that it was right at the time, since it was reasoned, as it later was absolutely necessary at that time. I'll remember it for the highest. At that time in October or November 2008, a minister came up with a discussion similar to what could be heard. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndalur how far we should go. Should this cover all types of living things? Should there be some specific amount of altitude? They reasoned on the advantages and shortcomings and found that this was the right way to do this in these situations. I think we all agree on that. In this regard, however, it needs to be clear. When I'm at the highest. The minister says that the present government has not seen reason to repeat it, but he leaves the matter in a bit of limbo. The other thing, I don't want to say that there may be no new circumstances that make it right to revise. For example, I agree with it as a dog. paritaprevir Blöndal H. Börum said that it should at least be considered on the journey whether this should be limited in some way. I'd like to ask the highest. Ministers, because it is so seldom so negligent as if I have an opportunity to come up with such a discussion and have a word about these matters: Is there anything against it if the council came to that conclusion, perhaps under clear, reliable, and reliable leadership? paritaprevir Frosti the son of Sigurjónsson be on a financial and tax committee, going that way? Is there a objection to international commitments or to visible threats to limit this responsibility in some way? So I'd like to draw attention to other things from the EFTA Court, I interpreted its conclusions, so that statements made by the leaders would not be too lenient if it was thought that they were given without direct permission in the legal system of that country. That's how I interpreted the results, part of them, and I thought it was a little important. Other than that, I'd like to say there's no easy way to talk about deposit money. It is true that he would never defend the system of an entire nation's fall, since it is entirely because of the European Union, the internal insurance system was never intended to defend an entire system. It was mainly thought, along with many other factors, as part of a defense network that included the rules of banking during difficulties and the need to isolate a fall that may be thrown into the bank sector from spreading. It was designed primarily to extinguish a fire in which it came up and prevent it from spreading throughout the forest. So I don't want to agree with it. paritaprevir Blöndal H. National said that the deposit insurance system was paper or patem tents. It's got a purpose, but it's always a limited deposit. It is absolutely clear that if there were a situation in one of the European countries that a whole nation's banking system was going under might be enough to support it, but I would not rely on it to keep the forest fire from spreading. In this country, we have been trying to create a system that guarantees that the situation does not arise here in the autumn of 2008. It turned out that the banking system was very different from what we thought, far different from the SEC, which was supposed to stay awake and sleep over it, had come to realize. It was found that cross - property connections and bonding were, in effect, a way that all banks should have been defined as one unit in a financial market. You can see it when you look back. However, when it comes to sowing a treasure that has been paid for a period of two years, it is still that way. In his talk earlier, a minister noted that last year he would have paid about 4 billion. You can see, then, that in a decade it has become a little drudgery that should be able to cope with at least what we call a medium - money agency on Icelandic standards and possibly be able to act as a firefighter and prevent it from spreading. The bill we discussed here during the past two days is exactly the same thing. It aims to strengthen the banks, to make them not to be like the feet that fall at the first breeze. I'm not saying it happened in 2008, but it's clear that the banks at the time were much weaker and weaker than we realized. The bills we've been reasoning here and various ways to strengthen their own money are one way, just as the deposit insurance fund is one way, just as there are other laws offered here that have been submitted and have already been submitted, our responses to the 2008 situation and express the mutual efforts of the Lawgiver to create an environment in which there are the least chance of such a situation being restored. This was what I wanted to discuss, and I didn't mean to drag her anywhere. But I find it interesting, and I like having it here because, in the coming year, there's a lot of discussions about deposit insurance and deposit insurance, except for the little bill we've been talking about on the side of the government stand, we've expressed our support if the Supreme Opportunity. Minister thinks it's necessary, I doubt it, but there's a different story now, I just follow custody of that subject. That's why I just like to have on the table the attitudes presented here. But I'm gonna throw some questions to the highest level. Ministers and if he trusts to answer them without regard to the interests of the State, I would appreciate it. I can live with it if he chooses not to.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u59	Mr. President. It is of utmost importance, as noted here, that the situation in this country is clear. At one time, it was important to decide whether governments would be willing to go further despite having an internal insurance system. It was because of the circumstances that existed back then. Therefore, the enough declarations of the government, which stood as political declarations that governments would do everything in their power to protect the position of their owners. There were political statements in a special situation. They were then followed. I have mentioned that the law had been changed and that if treatment was taken, property would be given priority. There have also been examples of some measures taken by the government, as in the case of SKef, where financial institutions were united and administration had to come from the state. The basis for this was that the depositors were being protected. But since then, much water has flowed to the sea. We have a much stronger financial system here, and there is no more important danger in itself that the government has called to make these previous conclusions especially its own. Let's also bear in mind in this discussion that there was a very special and strong reason for the United States for EFTA Court in the Icesave case not to use the government's protection, and that reason thought that these political declarations had been given at the time. That's why I say, there's nothing that I've called on the government that is now enforcing the previous statements on these subjects. However, there may be some part of the financial system or in discussion, including Here at the Senate Hall, if there's any reason to act in a more decisive way than has been done and I've tried to cross here today. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I will discuss it at the scene of the stability board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u60	Mr. President. There is at least reason to take decisive action and to speak clearly after this talk. Secretary of finance. He is usually a careful man, and I respect him for it, but I still think that what he has said this morning must be handled by men. V.E.G. A minister has said that certain political declarations have been made that the present government does not see why to repeat. It doesn't take Einstein to read the bottom line. Ministers are leaving, and I'm not saying we don't agree, of course, he's suggesting a different path. If so, it's only right to prove it. I'm not saying that's wrong. Things are completely different. There are certain things that have been fully explained and explained. First, it is clear and fixed with the judgment from EFTA that the State does not have the responsibility they were given at the time. Political declarations made under special circumstances were built and included nothing more than a declaration of ability, but they were not made because the law required it. It is very important that man is fully explained in that subject. Other than that, I'm just saying that because there's a different situation now and because it's still still still now; if you're going to change your course, this is a good opportunity to do it with the cautious preferred way. Then there is the question of whether the calmness and the good conditions that were in a description of the highest degree. A minister is likely to be a precaution. There is one factor to consider, and this is: Ministers have spoken of it fairly open in the last few weeks that there will be major operations here to lift currency heads. Well, this better be the case, then this attitude better be totally clear. I pray to the highest degree. A minister to hold quickly to the system alert and to clarify this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u61	Mr. President. It's all right here that it matters how these matters are discussed in the same way that I have here described why the government has not seen any reason to make the declarations of its former government in particular. This is because there is nothing in the environment that calls for government to overreach one's will to intervene. There is no imminent danger, and I believe that the statements given at the time served their purpose and that their time is really past. In the same way that it is all important to keep that in mind, because this is the case with the committee and the situation of the Icelandic financial system, how different the situation is, in fact, from the past. I allow me to mention, for example, the position of Iceland's Bank that was sold to private people at its time in steps, but a large proportion of the sales took place in 2002. I think I'll remember correctly that then the bank's total money was right about 16 billion and the financial sum was good within 10%. Today, this same bank does not have 16 billion in its own money but has 250 billion of its own financial resources around 25%, so if they did not have any reason to make any declarations that the state was behind the insides or would react if something did happen, there is certainly less reason for it today. We should assume that under trial, laws contain rules that apply to such matters. [[The president calls.]] Otherwise, it is not necessary to make a regular political declaration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u62	Mr. President. I agree completely with the highest. Minister on that. There has been no need for any special political statements about the situation until now, until after this sermon in this morning, it is now simply that way. I'm not going to go anywhere and at the top. Minister. I know he's working on these matters as far as he can, and I can confide in him that sometimes I feel like he and the highest. The prime minister is full - sized in these matters. The other is so different that we agree completely that the position of the banking system is completely different today. Money is so different from the sky and ocean. V.E.G. A minister remembered exactly what the Land Bank's situation was at the beginning of the collapse, and he knows the best of what it is now, 250 billion in his own money. So they don't come up here into this chair even from the highest level. Minister and his own government. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for breaking up so badly with the Lands Bank? It's his work now. If reasonable, because of the highest, be careful. A minister who is a man of integrity might need to recall it from time to time to his own party. Other than that, I'm not going to say anything else in this matter except that I believe that these matters and what hopefully lies ahead will be abdicate of a currency has to be most familiar with between government and government. It's the most successful way to get it all together in a positive way. As long as I'm on the level of trust at the highest level. A minister of finance may I finally confide in him that I feel that there is something lacking. For example, if we take those so - called - and I say so - called Convention Committees of the Government, or she is involved - sir faithful since December, seven or eight proclamations have been made by the Supreme Court. Prime Minister and Supreme Minister. Secretary of the budget that this is now due to take out the penitentiary. There hasn't been one meeting since then.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u63	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for his excellent speculation. I just want to get in there for a second. A senator according to whether he feels it is practical for him to lift state responsibilities by means of systematic key banks. Is it not included in the term that they are systematicly important that they never fall without the intervention of the state and the determination to save the dignitaries? Is it not, then, for good reason, to declare that Kingdom responsibility is in the innermost parts of these banks and collect what is to be paid for such Kingdom responsibilities under the laws of state responsibility? The law says that each bank or any agency that is responsible for the state's responsibilities should pay the equivalent of as far as 0.25% 6.54% of the responsibilities given. I'm assuming that in recent years it could have been high to 20 billion that the government should have earned by providing such responsibilities. [[Up front.]] - 20 billion? High to 20 billion, if we expect that there would be 500 billion in-house deposit for these three large banks. Then I'm not talking about money savings in general or in fact. Rather, I'm talking about loose interiors that must never stop us from being available because they're our legalties in this country and without them the economy would stop. Therefore, the State will have no choice but to secure these aspects. What do you think? A senator? Is it not just best to open your eyes and see what this looks like and let the banks that have that responsibility pay the price involved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u64	Mr. President. First of all, I believe that the state is not legally responsible for its insides. It may well be that the political situation - like the driving force - develops. paritaprevir Pétur H. Blöndal described the situation in Europe earlier - a state that calls for a state to intervene just as the British state did, throwing money into the British banking system in its own time. But I don't think it's desirable. All we've been doing and trying to work together is creating situations and environments where such things don't happen. Fortachless, it can never be said that this does not happen that one would like to avoid. But the bill that is described as being due to fall - the two bills we have been discussing in the last days, and many others that have come into law, all of us are going to aim to reduce the risk of the banking system and to prevent disaster from happening to the public in the country as well as to the State. If we go this way, where the man of the council is saying, so I put the English: Let's call a spade a spade, he is saying that de facto is responsible for the banks, will be forced to come in, so let's just take the step to the full and charge insurance bills for it. But if we take that step -- and now I may be thinking aloud - then we've naturally put the snare around our throats and can't take her head out again. Then we have said, " This responsibility is ours, no matter what happens. ' Compared to the amount of money. A senator was here to mention, if I add it to that as a matter of course. Blöndal H. Burgor said earlier today, I don't know if it's going to save much. I have serious doubts about it, but I'm prepared to discuss it with you. A senator who listens to his argument on this matter as always.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u65	A respectable president. I just agree with what. To reduce the risk of making banks, a senator is to let banks work in the way they are done today, allowing them to create the currency and to be in the position that the entire economic system depends on this currency working as an electronic release, if we so call it. There are certainly ways to minimize this risk, to increase our own money is one such way we discussed here yesterday. Even putting up a deposit card may, as mentioned earlier today, help save in small banks deeps without the cost of a government fund falling. But if any of the three big banks fail, then there is bound to be something other than a government fund that comes in and follows the responsibility to follow, which may cost the state budget many hundreds of billions. I think it's only natural while we have a banking system of this kind, where we allow systematicly important institutions that are so large, that these institutions pay a fee because today they are actually entitled to state. By means of this Kingdom guarantee, they will be financed by lower interest rates, by giving out deposits, but they will pay no price for this, but they will only make their profits. And because there is a small market competition, that super profits will not go to the customers of these institutions, but will remain with the shareholders, and now they are making 80 billion profits. What I'm suggesting is that these three institutions would pay 20 billion in debt. I think it would be fair just because 20 billion of this profits are in my opinion because they have a sense of state responsibility. I don't think it's possible to interfere with consumer interest in finding out what the Agency's risk is taking, the deposit center. Now they're just told that it's state responsibility for everything and deposit insurance, what reason do consumers have to maintain these institutions when a system of this sort is created that deceives them into thinking it's all safe?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u66	Mr. President. If you have a what? A senator listened carefully to all that was at his disposal. The minister of finance said here in this morning that it may now be a disgrace. I understood a word of the highest degree. A minister is determined that he was soon on his way to a system crisis strategy to see if the commitments due to the political proclamations of the previous government should be changed, and I urged him to look into it. I'm just saying honestly, I'm willing to discuss these matters just to the point of trial, thinking that we should use the right opportunities, the good places, and the transition courses to see if there is any way we can change the system for the better. But, sire, I am not ready at this moment to say yes to a question I believe will cause no profitless that if one of our banks were to fail, the state would probably be committed, by law, to take on the ground that could become hundreds of billions. No, I'm not ready to say yes to it right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u67	A respectable president. We're here to discuss a change in the law on deposit insurance and insurance systems for investors and exceptions from insurance protection. I just wanted to come up right here to agree with the views presented on the bill and to insist that it is, of course, the most important thing to make clear that there is no doubt that financial companies in return, broken or bankrupt treatments, and financial companies who have lost their licenses should not have deposit insurance. Here today, a very interesting discussion has been made on the basis of this matter in general regarding the insurance systems for investors and depositors, and including those listed above. discussed whether such systems can achieve their goal in such a small market as Iceland, whether they are above the heads of the desired and how useful such systems are. I might want to go further and ask, "Why do we need such a system? What is the root cause of the problems we have tried to solve with this system? The root of the problem is, of course, that in our system, as in other parts of our financial system, it is our arrangement so that banks are allowed to create money in the way that when they lend, they do not pass out the money made in the Secret Bank, but they are allowed to create the deposit system that they themselves make from nothing. There's no debate that this is the way banks make money, and it hasn't yet been banned, but the result is that any money in our economy is not made by the Sensian Bank, but by 95% of the amount of money in traffic and is absolutely necessary for the economy to be circulating at all times in the form of loose deposit. These available depositors are created by institutions called deposit companies, and if depositors fall and depositors have the difficulty of not having access to their infrastructure, they also have no access to any money to buy the necessities or to do business in our own economy. So our economy is now totally dependent on the fact that some private company, banks, will never fail. At the same time, the managers of this bank have been fully benefiting from increasing the stakes of companies, running them with the smallest of their own money, and making the highest request of their jobs. However, when it goes badly, these companies fall and are causing great financial costs because it can hardly be made on such a small market as here is building an deposit fund that would ever be sufficient to save one, let alone two of the big business banks that are here and are systematicly important. So I just wanted to bring it in. This is why we have an internal insurance system. They were invented in the United States about 200 years ago, 100◯200 years ago, and they can achieve their purpose in the United States because there are thousands of small banks that pay into the deposit fund and when small or medium-sized banks fall in the United States, these funds can save insurrections and the cost may not necessarily fall on government funds. The situation here is that three banks have over 90% of the markets. They're all three and each too big to fall. Actually, the internal insurance system is a secondary factor in this. One of these three banks will always be put to the test. That's why I came up and said no. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Aphrodinsson suggested that we just face reality as it is, we realize that these three big banks have all state responsibilities on the backseats and make them pay the state guarantees of them like other companies have to do that have State responsibilities. I don't think it matters very much whether the government oversees or does not declare the responsibility for these deep things. The responsibility is inevitable. No government will ever face the failure of a bank of this magnitude to fail because the result of its fall would inevitably be that, if the dignitaries are not rescued, the economy and society would be completely destroyed. Saving the bank is always cheaper for taxpayers than face the consequences of not doing so. That is why it is done and always has been done. That is why it is just as well to face this fact and to hide the banks who have this responsibility to pay for it. I just fired at it earlier, that since free interiors are high in 500 billion in the system, it would be possible to predict, as required in the stately responsibilities, that between 0.75 and 4% responsibilities a year should be paid. If the banks were upper, and 4% out of 500 billion are 20 billion, that would rightly have resulted in 80 billion profits, these three large banks over the last year, 20 billion in charge of government responsibilities, and in the state's budget for joint projects. This was what I wanted to say in view of the discussions that became available in this matter. Other than that, I just wanted to say that I'm expecting an economic and business committee to review the bill quickly and carefully and work on its progress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u68	A respectable president. If I've heard correctly, I understood that there should be 4% state-respect fees on 20 billion. If it's a federal fee for these conditions, it's not a general requirement. Is it not for the senator to round up a general income fund and an insurance fee, which, in turn, goes into a credit fund? As he spoke there, it's a pure income raise for the state funds. However, 4% of the state's bail fees are completely penalized. It must then ensure free interiors and loose interiors have about 0.25% interest. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurjónjarsson will be completely involved in this and will destroy a whole banking system. I just hope I've heard some dreams of the senator, but not serious talk. I've finished my case for a while.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u69	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A senator for such speculation. Of course, I wasn't deciding to put on such taxes but to bring up an idea, and I celebrate the discussion that has come out of this idea. Of course, it's good to criticize such ideas and point out what may be better to go, but I could hear it. A senator strongly objects that the profits the banks make because of this Kingdom responsibility are worth several dollars. But he must agree with me that the banks are in a fair environment. They do not really have full competition, for I have seen so - called perfect competition, except in textbooks or textbooks. Senator. A perfect competition cannot be made where three parties are on the market, and major obstacles are entering and difficult to get into that market. Hence, because of having State responsibilities in the heart, the bank's special profits will be considerable, i.e. The bank debt side, largely borrowed, is subsidized. The Vaults are so low, like what? A senator mentioned because the general public trusts that they are within their best interests as Kingdom responsibilities. The banks are responsible for their government loans, which they take on the market in the form of the local public, and they observe these special differences instead of the fact that they go to the one that gives the state responsibility, the state's own money. Got it. A senator did not at least view the bank's paying for this state responsibility that, although not necessarily under law, is inevitable, because we cannot see a bank office like this fall without doing something about it?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u70	A respectable president. - What's he doing? A senator of this 4% price was in such a way that it was a public donation for state funds. 80 billion bucks. The profits made by banks last year are, in fact, not of the operation of that year, but, in part, from early ex - penalties and debt, so that reference to it does not matter. The bill on this topic is primarily designed to eliminate deposit insurance from the bank's heart, creditors, interveningly, so that these reflections are subject to confusion. A senator actually has nothing to do with the bill. Here's an alternative bill for later discussions about the deposit insurance fund, and there the senator can tore up this view, but what's being tried to do with deposit insurance is to try to avoid having a state of responsibility on banks. In case of a moment. A senator would like to force it to be a state of responsibility, but he can handle these arcades, but that will probably not be necessary because of the failure of Icelandic banks, they will be completely out of shape with financial institutions. [[Up front.]] And the natural thing is that the Icelanders will be able to do business with banks in other countries, in case they have any ideas. The senator was able to proceed. But I think it's very normal, since I'm back here, I'm going to use these seconds that I have left to mention it, to cancel the responsibility of the deposit fund on the sides of a bank because banks have the first place to do business with the Secret Bank and so share money between themselves. So I don't think that these ideas applied to this bill and that this case is irrelevant, but beyond that, I think they're vast. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u71	A respectable president. I've noticed why. A senator has reserved the right to appoint other members of the council what they may discuss in his talks, especially me and my ragehv. The jealous son of Ögmundur, who has been beaten by this censorship. A senator and the limit to freedom of speech in a chair I don't think is appropriate. [[Take it up, you and Awe.]] Wait a minute. A senator being careful about this and not putting it into practice. As mentioned in the first part of my speech that he missed, he evidently hadn't listened to, I covered just the subject of the bill that was here for discussion. [[I listened to her somewhere else.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u72	I listened to a talk...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u73	[[The president calls.]] I'm sorry, can I have...
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u74	Not a conversation.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u75	Can I finish my case? There I had carefully discussed the subject of the bill itself, and I agree with it. A senator says it's good and it's time to take it over at the council here. The other thing that the Senator changed, we just disagree, that's all right. I'm prepared to give further evidence of my case and to support it more fully, if necessary, if he doesn't understand that there is an inevitable state responsibility for the mains of these three big banks. No matter what the State says or does not now say whether such responsibility is on the inside, it is inevitable. That is why I feel that for that, it is inevitable.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u76	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a committee party with a bill-changing motion to legalize the law of No. 129/1997, of the related insurance rights and the work of pension funds, with subsequent changes, in particular the investment rights of pension funds. For example, consider the name of the committee, along with the change in motion. I refer to it in basic terms, as I will not review it from word to word but will trace it to the main points. The case was submitted on September 10, 2000. and was discussed at the General Assembly of 21 October and the Economic and Business Committee. On behalf of the Committee, I would like to thank the guests and the managers for their contribution. The bill suggests that pension funds be granted to invest in stock market market markets as much as stocks that have been taken into the business market. On the other hand, enforcing songs place investments in stock market stocks, which are shopped in financial squares, in terms of investments, in unsurpassed stocks. However, for the stock market market markets, there are important laws and formalities that increase investment protection or that are lost. So much agrees with the view that it is reasonable to classify the stock markets in similar ways and stocks that have been taken into account in an organized stock market, as suggested in the bill. However, the majority also feel that it is normal to set investments in the market markets of financiers at some initial markets, as afterwards will be done. The report on the bill shows that the most important part of the guidelines that apply to the reporting of markets applies similarly to the market of financiers. That's the value of XIII. Chapter No. 108/2007, on stock trade, on how to handle internal information and the trade of an insider in a similar way in the market market of financing and organized markets. The panel noted on the matter that a new law - matched party can begin running a new financial market, and it does not necessarily mean that the person is going as far as Iceland's Stock Hall has in its rules on First North, which is being prepared by the bill. The majority of the objects, while being brought to attention in a paper with the bill how the law's requirements have been implemented in the rules of First North, show that the bill here is based on a general code of laws that apply to the market of financiers under the terms of stock exchange. After a collapse, the deposit of pension funds for investments in unscrupulous letters has been increased from 10% to 20% of pure property. It has been noted that with the change the bill puts into place the investments of the pension fund at the market square of financiers from 20% of the clean property of a pension fund to 100% of the clean property of a pension fund. Sets the extra items to be done with care, and the warrant therefore limits to 5% of the clean holdings of pensions in stock market stocks, in addition to the 20% that are already authorized to invest in unsolved letters. The majority agree with the opinion that the warrant is also valid for the possession of the special property. More than that, it is estimated that the increased investments of pension funds in the market of financiers will increase the variety of investments available on a domestic market. In this way, there will be the possibility of increasing the risk distribution in the financial collections of pensions. The majority of it considers that the bill makes it easier to invest in small and medium-sized enterprises that submit to sharper law and regulations. This could improve not only the growth of pensions but also the growth of profits. A card encourages SMEs to implement market market market policies for transparency and information, but the bill aims to increase this drive. In view of this, the greater part suggests that the bill will be agreed with the changes made on the Senate document. Under the heading of the Council, February 25, 2015, p. Councilmen Frosti Sigurjónsson chairman, President Willum Þór Þórsson Thor Thorsson, Teleik Anna Sævarsdóttir, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Blöndal H. Bjöllal, Konráðsdóttir Konásdótir, Akni Páll Árnason, and Steigur J. Sigfússon.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u77	A respectable president. I come up here to celebrate this bill on the clearance of pension funds in order to improve your authority on selling stocks. I think it's very positive, as shown in the bill's report, it's increasing the diversity and risk distribution of the funds. Hv. A senator was consulted about a small and medium-sized enterprise in which economic growth and value development will be increased. I think that's a hell of a positive thing. I have a question for you. A senator who is more general and not necessarily about the bill: How important does he consider an extra investment in the small and medium-sized economy? Can he swerve for me what it means in general not just to the pension fund but to what it means to the nation, to the race, to the people, to the effect on work, and to the like?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u78	Thank you. paritaprevir Haraldur Einarsson for the question. This is a very important question and good. The situation is in the pension fund system that we've arranged so that all companies, small and large, pay employees, and pay pay paid in a pension fund. More than 90% of all the workers in the country, or more than 80% of all the workers in the country work for SMEs, so I'll be right on it. On the other hand, we have arranged for the knots in the investment rights of pensions so that they can only invest in government bonds and registered stocks, which are only applicable to the greatest money law, which is a problem in the system itself. We're using the pension fund, financing it by taking money out of all companies, small and large, but it can only be reinvented to the end of the economy that can grow slowly, i.e. the largest companies, and the state funds, which, of course, are controversial how much to invest in over the head. Now, all research shows that companies are small and medium-sized that can grow faster, create most of their jobs, produce most of the economy, and also the most economic product for the pension fund. It is therefore very strange that we bring back our savings, our national savings, so it must not go into the part of the economy that can grow faster and make the most valuable. If we were to reduce economic growth and create the least future value, we would do just that, take money from small and medium-sized companies and put it into a public fund or in large companies that can be least grown. This is not secondary to the fact that the pension fund carries 3,000 billion of the population's savings and what they do or don't do for the economy. I think it is a luxury to remember that well over 100 billion people are being added each year, and it is necessary for a pension fund to invest them not only in large companies but also in small and medium-sized growth companies. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u79	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. paritaprevir Frosti, son of Sigurjónsson for a clear and clear answer. I want to agree with him that it tells itself quite that small companies grow faster and if pension funds want to increase their chances in that investment, it must be better for all of us as the owners of the pensions. I'm welcome. I have no further questions on this matter to the senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u80	A respectable president. I recommend a minority party, my causium section on bill to legalize the law of law No. 129/1997, of the related insurance of pension rights and the operation of pension funds, with subsequent changes. The bill under discussion is about the investment rights of pension funds. Starting reading the minority opinion: The smaller section considers this to be unnecessary, thinking that it actually goes contrary to basics in the investment policy of pensions. A fundamental factor in calculating the rights of a bank bank in a pension fund is that because the funds are in an active market trade, a clean income can be estimated to be paid for a pension. The change in the subject makes investments particularly possible in the marketplace. The change suggested in the bill, taking into account the change, gives extra room for investment in unscheduled stocks. Sources to purchase on unregistered property are now 20%, becoming 25% of pure property. Enlargement of this threshold is, in fact, an emergency operation for the few investments due to a budget and a currency stand. Sources for investing in the market market of financing are already available within the 20% of which it is permitted to invest in unsolved stocks in which stocks are stocked in the market market markets are not considered as stocks that have been taken into account on a structured market, and therefore are considered as other unbecoming stocks. 3 mg 36 st. The law. The procedure is, in effect, only to place restrictions on the foreign investments of pension funds and thus to add to the domestic risk of pensions. The smaller section doesn't think it's right to accept this bill, but it's referred to as a committee to investigate changes in the financial resources of pensions. I'm not going to explain this any further. I believe investment warrants and pension funds are based on agreements between unions and professional drivers. The 1997 legislation was based on years of work and pension funds, unions and professional drivers have not requested this change. It is as stated earlier, investment documents from pension funds are being checked. That, in addition to the growth of pension funds, there's no doubt about it. The small companies involved also know how to increase the loss of pensions. I'm not going to be responsible for this change, so I strongly suggest that it be taken care of. I can see that there are the parties of every class in the majority opinion, but we'll see on the last day how things are going to turn out. A respectable president. I don't think I'm going to make it any further, and I'm going to speed up the Senate.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u81	V.E.G. President. At my death, I now had a chance, not from what happened. paritaprevir Vilhjálmur Bjarnason. I thought he was the most progressive of all members of the council here and the most liberal in all things, but I can't see better than this committee's opinion gives evidence of the toughest retreat. But I have one question for you. The candidate, for this was presented in the talk of the highest authority. Secretary of finance this morning that this country is now visible in dislodging but sharp. A senator here says that the bill here for the treatment is intended to establish capital capital capital capital capital capital capital, i.e. to increase these limits, this is an emergency operation. I say, "Have a why." A senator did not believe in his Führer, chief. Secretary of finance, who says this morning that we can now see a country by releasing these seas? Can't he believe the words of his Führer? Other than that, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that pension funds are being driven into the local capital of investing in all competitive business. Yesterday's latest example is, they were, without me having much to do with the business, investing in pizzas that have operations in many parts of the country. The senator does not really feel that pension funds have the opportunity to invest in companies that create real economy and create more jobs, etc.? Like I say, I'm not minimizing pizza pies, but I feel bad. Is it really true that the money of pensions is at the best of the goal of promoting economic and professional interests?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u82	A respectable president. The answer to the first question is clear: Yes, I have full faith in the Chairman of the Independence Party. With claims a bit or two. A senator says that pension funds are investing in all kinds of competitive operations, that's just normal. Most of the business in this country is competitive. But I'm just gonna teach the senator that the purpose of a pension is primarily to pay a pension. The purpose of a pension fund is not to promote economic growth or to pursue any commercial creation. Pension funds already own about 1203/4130 billion in banks they have to come out to distribute their risks. Hv. paritaprevir Einarsson said earlier that this would spread a risk that is actually wrong. This increases the risk of the pension fund. I don't think it's going to be a pension fund for the benefit. Let us be careful that we start using a pension fund, such as our bridge, to promote the growth of our own interests. The purpose of a pension fund is just one. He's paying a pension.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u83	V.E.G. President. I could agree more with anything than with it. A senator noted earlier that the pension fund had the sole purpose of paying a pension and providing pensioners and relief candidates at such times. That's why I'm surprised to find out. A senator is opposed to this matter, which is directly designed to promote fast - growing companies and is certainly a major part of the dignity of the pension fund. I don't understand what's in it. A senator like me says, as progressive and liberal as I thought he was, that he'd come here with such old-fashioned perjury to be opposed to his pension fund gains a pound in viable companies that are likely to yield a tremendous profit. Wait a minute. A senator explaining this to me, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u84	A respectable president. I don't understand some of these answers. A senator, however, would like to repeat the fact that the pension fund has already been authorized to invest 20% of its provision and property in unscheduled companies. Under that heading, these companies are in the market market for financial advancement. I think it's a long way to go up to 25%. These companies can be invested within the 20%. I don't think there's supposed to be an increase in risk, using the financial resources for this kind of venture to sceptre companies. Individual companies that are behind the Stock Hall can take a small part of their provision money to do so, but I don't think it's right to use the pension fund for this purpose. Hv. A senator can call this retreat, but I think about pensioners instead of the companies.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u85	A respectable president. I just want to have a word with what. A member of the council on this committee view, which is quite surprising to me and a few questions, seems to misunderstandings about the purpose of the bill and what is being considered. It is said to extend the bill to walk on the basis of the basic policy of pension funds, to increase the scope of investments in unsurpassed stocks, to be an emergency operation for the capital crisis, to support a currency head - all turned upside down. I just wanted to ask you what. A senator: Does it seem that it violates basics in the investment policy of pensions that there are other good options? There's no one here talking about forcing them to invest in these companies. Rather, encouraging companies to meet further obligations to make them better and more investment-able for a pension fund and they're making a distinction between unbecoming stocks. It's not what. A senator agreed that in the market market squares of financiers, the publishers of such letters are stricter than those made in general, so that the difference can be made in this respect? Can't see why. A senator of this difference, and does he not agree that the theories on making investments work as the risks increase as such collections are increased? Even if some of these investments are risky in themselves, it is important to increase the variety, that not all of them are the same, that they are different in nature. It happened here after a crash, like a whale. A senator may well remember that the fine financial gains listed on the main list and that all the confidence in it and the pension funds were permitted to invest completely indefinitely at a price of about 90%.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u86	A respectable president. I think most of the questions were presented in my speech. All I'm going to say is that this bill that's being discussed here is to increase investment clearances in these unregistered stocks from 20 to 25%. There is already a 20% source and can be invested within the source in the stock market market stocks. [[Up front.]] I believe that warrant is peace enough and perhaps too high. If I run mine correctly, that warrant was increased from 10 to 20% a few years ago, and further arrangements have been extended so that pension funds can fit into an investment where the pension funds tried to take out of the banks of a company that came into the arms of the bank. So I think the pension fund has that authority, and I think this is more about the risks of the pension fund. All I think is, basically, the pension fund is to be given additional permission to invest in foreign countries to place its risks. I remember doing business with a pension fund once, and last of their funds was to buy stocks in the company they worked for so that it was their simple risk distribution. I think we need to consider that, and even demand that the pension funds have more of their possessions outside the country and that they are not used to invest in wands, so on the interest and motivation of individual government officials. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u87	Mr. President. Hv. A senator may not have completely answered my question about whether a company is not in any legal position to meet the duties of its partner law or the added duties laid on an enterprise in the market of financial gains, but let it be a part of it. We agree that pension funds should place their risks and should place the risks on large and small companies and abroad, to different countries. Half our consumption in Iceland's old age will be in imported goods anyway, and I'm sure it's up to half of our money in foreign investments. There's no room for that. I don't think there's anything in the bill that would rent a pension fund to distribute its risks in a reasonable way. On the other hand, I cut it out in speech. A senator felt that pension funds should not be made at all any social obligations, such as promoting economic growth. They should just look at the need to make money and pay a pension, which is certainly their role. But if they don't have an obligation to the community, and they give you a 3. Billions in our economy and no effort to increase economic growth, each one of them. A senator to conclude that? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u88	A respectable president. All I'm going to say is that we're not discussing economic growth here and it's not the duty of pensions to make a profit. The only duty of the pension fund is to pay a pension and to raise funds in an reasonably safe manner. There are certainly more duties in the market of financing than according to the raw stock laws and I say very simply that these sources are already there and I think it is absolutely unnecessary to increase them from 20 to 25%, especially because this warrant was increased from 10 to 20% not too many years ago, so I think it's a bit far gone. Other than that, I refer to my committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u89	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A candidate for the speech and the opinion of the committee, which he writes against all other councils at the General Assembly, is respectable. Because of his earlier talk, when he quoted my first talk, I would like to ask him about risks. First, though, I'd like to say, "I totally agree. " A senator in thinking about companies and that pension funds should not promote economic growth. That's what I want to ask you. A senator as to whether it is normal, if there is too much money and if he sees the advantage of investing in the country, of having more authority to do so; I do not speak of any small or medium-sized enterprises that do not have many or benefit in financing money, that there are investment opportunities. I want to ask you why. A senator on the possibility of pension funds. I don't see how giving the pension funds an additional source or variety of assets to invest and to use taxpayers'financial resources to earn their money. The aim is not to promote economic growth, but this could increase economic growth by investing in the companies. I want in. A senator after this, even asking if he felt that it would be harmful for him to raise these sources to investment in the marketplace of financiers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u90	A respectable president. It's like most of what I say here is part of it. I've never thought that money funds should be forbidden to invest in the market of financiers. They already have that authority. We're here to discuss specifically increasing it, so they have more authority to invest in unscheduled letters, raise it from 20% to 25%. Of these, there will be a special authority, an additional authority, in the marketplace of financing. When institutions such as pension funds or businesses or similar institutions plan to increase their economic growth - where does it end? I think that men should think only smaller and think of the goals of the pension fund. These goals may well go together rather than put them first, I just ask men to be careful. And then I don't get it right. The senator was going here, that the taxpayers' financial resources should be used. This is none of the business for the taxpayers. It's a forced savings that's laid in the employee's salary and that's about to talk about paying a pension fund as a tax, that's just not what I don't understand. Other than that, I'm not gonna answer him. I'm just referring to what I've said before. I believe these sources of investing in unsurpassed stocks are even too high, this 20%. There are a lot of things that you can do within this 20% of clearance, but first I say it has to be increased and pressured to invest outside the country, and that they don't lose 90% of what they've bought in Icelandic retails so that employees don't lose both their jobs and their pensions. That's what I'm thinking. I've finished my case, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u91	V.E.G. President. Clearly, we senators do not get along in this matter, either on a case or in another matter. I'd like to use my later answer to ask. A candidate in a sentence in a committee study, which says, by permission of the president: ▪ In effect, the initiative is only to promote restrictions on the foreign investments of pension funds and thus to increase the domestic risk of pensions. Now's the time. A senator on these matters, but I did not so that I would like to know a little better what. A senator is saying that when he writes this sentence and puts it in the committee's opinion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u92	A respectable president. This statement, in turn, explains for itself if we put forth effort to do so. It simply says there is an additional warrant for investing in domestic unsolved letters from 20% to 25%. As a result, the pressure of investing outside the country, which I believe is a basic need today. And I believe those companies that want to come to Iceland and invest in a live foreign investment can create economic growth, but that's not their purpose to produce economic growth, that's their purpose to produce goods. It is our goal here to create conditions for economic growth, but if we start making these artificial operations to create economic growth, it can only end in one way, it can end with a national fee. I've finished my case, Mr. Honorable President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-05-78.u93	V.E.G. President. I come up here to celebrate this bill. I believe it is a very good possession made that pension funds will be allowed to invest in rapidly growing SMEs in small and medium-sized companies. As it happens, in recent district weeks, I made a special effort to visit a company in my district of Southeast politics, which are now called sceptical companies but are now on the move. It was found that in a number of cases, these companies had acquired foreign owners, about when they were on good soil and prepared to make good profits. Of course, it would be far closer to my heart that these companies had been financed when they had broken children's shoes, for it also became evident on my journey for the benefit that all of them are adding very much to the staff. For example, in one of those Icelandic companies, it was suggested that there were 14 employees in 2010, but there are 50 now, and the company is still growing. In 2001, I visited another company, which was just an idea, put it on markets in 2009, and now I have 40 employees in Iceland and 100 in foreign lands, selling their productions in all continents except in Antarctica. These are just some of the rapidly growing enterprises that are based on Icelandic intelligence, both of which are multiplying their worth and contributing to the growth of employment opportunities for highly educated young people, creating economic growth in the country, thereby creating demand and positive motivation. I'm not going to extend this discussion, Mr. President, but I just wanted to describe my special pleasure with the bill. I hope there's good progress, and I'm glad that the movers come from all categories. There is a parapolitic agreement on the subject, and it's a big thing that makes me happy that it is. There is a need for such cross - political reconciliation. I express my deep satisfaction in the matter and wish that it will succeed.
