ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u1	The President has received a letter on the revocation of an oral query. The Ögmundur of Jónasson's son again calls for an oral reply on a threshing floor. 957, issue 554, on the basis of the global interest analysis of Icelandic enterprises in the field of service trade for TiSA negotiations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u2	Borist has received a letter from the State Department asking for every request in order to give a written answer to a letter on the subject. 909, on action against a man-salter, from the Sagaís Svavarsdóttir. There have also been two letters received from the Department of Professional Road and Neoplasms where request is made in order to give written answers to questions on the deck. 990, on national economic efficiency based on measures, and on padding. 922 of the settlements, both of the Sigurður of the son of Örn Ágústsson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u3	A respectable president. An incredible little debate has been given about the identification of the state police department that there is an increased threat of terrorism. I'd like to encourage everyone to read an interview in the Morning Press today with a criminal Helgi Gunnlaugsson. There he reviews these matters in a highly balanced and grammatical way and points out what is obvious to us that it is a perfect child to argue that we cannot get into what is happening to us in the nations we compare with and that we are our next neighbors. For example, we know this because of the terrible terrorism in Outey and what we saw a few weeks ago in Denmark that unfortunately, this can happen. Gunnlaugsson's Sanctum emphasizes that we have perspective and can accurately weigh danger, particularly indicating that a recent rejection of the courts would put two trustees into custody, one of which declared support for the Kingdom of Islam and threatened to murder a number of people if they were to excommunicated. A respectable president. We need to look to the northern countries, as Gunnlaugsson noted, to see if we need to change laws and practices here and work better with our neighbors in order to minimize the threat of terrorism. A Helgi also shows that we must not fall into the trap of focusing on certain groups in this relationship, for history shows that terrorists have come from various ranks throughout the ages. Our aim must be, or it is my opinion that Iceland should be open, and we are certainly not to discriminate against people on the basis of religion. It's not about that, Mr. Honorable President, it's about the safety of all the people of the country. It is priority that we at the National Assembly take these matters into account in a materialistic and balanced way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u4	V.E.G. President. I'm so lucky to be one of the senators who was given the privilege of being a spokesman for children at the General Assembly and signed a declaration of this on the 25th anniversary of the United Nations Children's Convention last November. Lucky, I say because this is the most interesting project I can think of. That interest has not diminished in studying the children's covenant. It is not necessary to say that the matter of the child's covenant is not just an important human rights contract that has been signed by the Icelanders; it has been accepted into Icelandic law. The children's covenant contains special provisions for the duties of Member States to ensure that mental and physical disabled children enjoy a balanced, decent life and that they should contribute to their self - control and to their active involvement in the community, to the same extent. The United Nations Convention on the rights of disabled people also contains many rules that have special concerns on children's rights. Icelanders have not yet validated that agreement. We've got to get out of here. That's a dirty word, and that's what's going on. Sadly, it is not without reason that specific laws on disabled children are included in these two human rights contracts, since in many parts of the world, they are excluded, subject to much differences, and more to want than others. In the past few days, I have visited a interest group that works for disabled children and children with various disorders and have been found among them by the leaders of the Developments, the ADHD Association, the rest of the Department of History, and the Skyhol. There have been happy meetings with wonderful people who are working with great ideals to improve the quality of their children and their caregivers. But it has not been a pleasure to hear all of them relate to the lack of appropriate support and analysis, the very long waiting lists, and the lack of education for professionals about the needs of disabled children and children with disorders. We should not talk much about how an Icelandic society is based on human rights and equal opportunities until this has been fixed. It's not just a matter of human rights, it's a waste of a lot of money, including cash.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u5	President. I would like to call attention to a resolution delivered to Ólöf Nordal Minister yesterday, which says, by permission of the president: Iceland's Society of Women's Institute of Women, the Women's Council, Iceland's Women's Association of Women's Rights, Step conventions, and W.O.M.E.N. ▪ National Association of Women in Iceland condemns violence against all individuals and particularly those in a more sensitive social position, and it encourages the authorities to take violence seriously against women and to strengthen the law on restraining order. Following the Supreme Court of Justice, which recently fell to cancel the restraining order of a man suspected of violence at his local resident, this group decided to send out a joint resolution and to note that it was time to revise a restraining order and to strengthen the situation of fracture tolerance, but among many of them, there are often women of foreign origin who do not have as strong a backland as a safety net as many. In recent courts, the number of restraining bans has increased greatly and is called to mind that three of the five cases have been canceled for this year. The law says that the advantage and safety of violators should be put in place and that this sentence is being sent out wrong messages to victims of domestic violence. Therefore, I believe it is important that the Supreme Court and Lawgiver respond to the pleas being heard. This is vital, and we need to work more closely on these important laws and consider these matters, since safety of victims of domestic violence must be assured. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u6	V.E.G. President. I'm going to say something. paritaprevir And the son of Karl the son of Garðarsson, who spake in the least. the profits of banks and interest rates at the council yesterday. It has been prominent in the news over the past few days that Adoni bank and Iceland Bank are making a lot of money. At the same time, we hear reports that in too many cases, interest rates are being raised, but interest rates are down. It is unlikely that loan growth will increase while the growth rate is reduced in some cases. Bank decisions to offer less credit rates to individuals and households are not acceptable, especially if we see based on profits, that there is truly room. It would have been very positive, even for the image of these institutions, to show reasonableness in business dealings with individuals and their homes, to allow them to feel the apparent amount of space. The banks have also been adding new deposit teams, which come to the heart of those who come and attend services in the banks. According to consumer organisations, this currency is more aggressive in older citizens and those who do not pay bills in home banks as well as others who do not have computers or skills to take advantage of its potential. This behaviour of financial institutions is by no means acceptable. I encourage all of us here to take a closer look. We must gather together to ensure the best interests of consumers. If you and I here are serious about working for the country's home, then we have to take tighter financial institutions, let them finish, for example. reimburse individuals who had illegal loans around the collapse, finish recalculation their loans without having to go through the court route, and the banks allow the public to experience the positive conditions that are going on the market. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u7	A respectable president. I come up here to thank you. paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson listened to me, beneath this team at yesterday's council. In fact, I thought it was sarcasm at first. A senator, thus playing my innocent heart, has the cold, biting winds of politics. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] It didn't turn out to be. I have to say that his words encourage me to reiterate my view that those who use the so - called panoramic reasoning against the European Union but who participate at the same time in accepting the directives and laws produced in the European Union, little or entirely unchanged, are not parties themselves. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]] Thus, in these chapters, humans are entirely on the edge of what may be considered possible during the council from the general concept as known by man. I've seen it myself in the short time I've been at the council, I've been at a council for six years, to happen repeatedly. Therefore, it is important for the Icelanders to answer this question and decide which place they will be in the European Union. I feel that way, as it turned out. A senator yesterday said that we should enter the European Union, that we are to participate in molding our national legislation, that this is the way we active and use our sovereignty in cooperation with free nations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u8	V.E.G. President. I'm gonna be in a place like what I'm supposed to be. paritaprevir Gulsome Þór Þórðarson in his speech earlier, but not so. Last night in Kashlight, there was an interview with the head of the state Marshal's diagnostics, who made me very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very, very deep, and hopefully more members in this room. The occasion was a recent report showing that the intelligence department considers terrorism to be increasing and calls for increased research evidence to respond to that threat. The manager during the interview said that the danger over Iceland could have been changed as it could not be ruled out that there would be terrorism here both because of the global situation and the state in this country, as he put it without specifically explaining what is in it. For example, these reports run a long distance from the information of Europol showing that terrorism in Europe has gone a long way and quite stable since 2007, although terrorism has been done there. There was no firm example of evolution in the case of a representative of the police. Rather, it was only a general statement that the police had information about the other and these persons who might be considered dangerous. Similarly, it was very strange to listen to the official ask those who want to do terrible things in the power of a cause, sort of terrorists, and spiritually weak people for whom there is reason to fear. And to improve the seasoning of the mixture, a reference was added to those in the trust - seeking group as a special risk. I'm sorry to say that I felt that this hearing was given by the State Marshal's office is a sign of terror, and I think it's extremely dangerous when it comes to such an important and delicate case as the authority of the police. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u9	Hear, hear.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u10	V.E.G. President. The government has issued a decommissionment policy and a step - by - step operation in which insurance will be fully decommissioned and its programme will be set up in 2016. The first step is to avoid spending more time on loans than 25. We have been living under a price - secure housing system for almost four decades, and the consequences have been over and over again to change this system, a system that creates circumstances in which the borrower is confident that he will increase his debt beyond financial development and good. The loan, however, has complete uncertainty, but its guarantee is that the borrower will get everything he can so that his crowns will keep its worth and gooder than that; the interest rate of 4686% is very common. Of course, there is nothing normal in circumstances where a creditor is able to repay fully with absolute uncertainty. In between, there should be a plan to borrow and borrow. At the same time, there is evidence that the risks should be at the creditor who has knowledge, tools, and tools to protect himself from it. However, this is not the only issue of righteousness and reasonableness that should be determined in my mind. Economic reasons weigh heavily, and I'd like to refer to a panel of experts reporting on the decommission of bail in this regard. A respectable president. Despite the presence of some time in the semi-final economy, there is stability ahead of execution of collective agreements. It would be an enormous improvement and a wise entry into collective agreements to get close to an older responsored loan, and it would be a failure to allow the offer to switch to an unsecured housing system. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u11	A respectable president. When right rule controls, the equation in communities is reduced. This is an old story and a new one, and this claim is supported by numerous studies and analysiss, and the right rule of the son of Shimmer Sigmundur, the Davíð of Gunnlaugsson, is there no exception. Many changes in the law and the called primes are going in that direction, so they should not be divided. However, in the countries around us, environmental protection and protection have become increasingly popular and, fortunately, more and more are making green views of themselves and also in Icelandic politics. Sadly, the government has failed to follow that current and is, in part, old - fashioned and lacks vision, since in each case after another discussion at the council, environmental considerations are put aside and others in the first place. The Environmental and Transport Committee has repeatedly received the role of a major environmental review committee such as a framework of nature protection, although it is based on the understanding of public rights, on electrons and system programmes, although it contains environmental and organizational issues in the foreground. The environmental issues are secondary and secondary issues, and the Council's Committee on the matter is a second act. In fact, although all of these are available for the use of Icelandic nature on days and on holiday events, natural protection and environment are being pursued in all these matters. But it is not until the test, a respectable president, when long - term interests must be weighed against short - term interest, when public interest against special interests, when we have to weigh the interests of nature on the other hand, and the interests of professional living, we face challenges as to whether we are willing to be environmentalists. And I still miss that such voices are heard from the government section, one voice from the 19 members of the Convention, one of the 19 members of the House of Independence. It is sad, but it urges the rest of us to protect these valuables in behalf of future generations. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u12	V.E.G. President. As we have recently seen, Iceland has more equations than any other country, and there is an opportunity for future agreements to preserve that equation. Many people are concerned about the agreements ahead. It is clear that this will be the main project to improve the terms of the lowest wage, but there are opportunities in those collective agreements because it appears that large groups of people in the country have been negotiated in a general labour market. For example, some bankers have apparently received some very generous increases recently, both in the form of direct rates and requests, likely because they have done very well in recent years, and they are probably being rewarded for this. Since then, the labour market partners have done quite well to negotiate the terms of the highest-priority companies owned by the pension fund and the middle managers. It becomes obvious, and it was discovered in a free trade magazine last year and has shown in various measures that these managers seem to be pretty good and have received quite a good reward, so there is plenty to be done there, and they do not have to be assured, these groups, further compensation. In that respect, I think that upcoming collective agreements will make it easier for a subject to be met because it can simply not be negotiated with these groups, large groups, who have already received huge compensation. So the project must be to increase the pay of the lowest wage, and I am quite convinced that the labour market members can agree as well as raising the pay of the highest executives in companies owned by pension funds.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u13	A respectable president. It is embarrassing to watch each candidate rise in front of another's speaker and complain about the banks. Congress members must be made aware that they are not in a position of government. They have had two years to limit these banks to services, for interest, for profit. [[Take it up for "and tax."]] These banks, among other things, operate with a Kingdom responsibility from their own government. The cost is based on their own government's state responsibility, but instead of limiting the limits of banks, all the senators have made room for more. Now they've made a bill to let the banks come back to lend financial loans to people and businesses in the country. A respectable president. The mother of all campaign stores will not be allowed to interfere with insurance, nor will it be wrong when members of the Party try to hide behind the fact that she should begin at the end of the season of the season in 2016. [[Up front.]] The reason for the applicant party to say that decommission insurance should begin at the end of the season is simply the fact that the Independence Party has never approved ablation insurance. The parish never gave it as a requirement to form a government with the Independence Party that insurance would be taken away because the forwarding party meant nothing by the promise of disassociation of insurance. He's only been putting it off until the end of the election season and he'll take some of the legal steps to say he's started what he's not going to finish or finish most of it. Valuable insurance will continue with the next total election, as it was with the last, although some minor limitations may have been made because it was never meant to fulfill that promise. I encourage the advance party to try to solve their deficiency in the polls in any way other than to come up here and complain about the banks they themselves conduct by law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u14	President. I'm certainly going to consider the state police report presented on February 20, the U.S. Marshal's intelligence department at the risk of terrorism and other major attacks. Since I have read the report, I have to say that I am shocked, especially with the proposals and references given to groups of people defined in the chapter Pronunciations, that they will be assigned social resources that are affected by radicals, and then these radicals are defined. So there are anarchists, Islamists, radical rights, and left men who are potential threats to the State. I take it very seriously, what? Senator. So the Marshal suggests that created a special social resource for parties such as me, an assortmentist. For individuals who are affected by radicals in the country, a special area of consultation will be made up of police, social services, and health authorities to provide information on these individuals who may threaten the safety of the public, who are those who say the Anarchists and radical rights and left men, as well as for the police to receive premeditated research rights to spy on us. These are the actions the office proposes for the prevention of terrorism in this country. I think it's very serious, huh? paritaprevir Guðlaugur Þór Þórðarson. The police here are once again trying to create fear, just as they did in hell. Where are they now and the threats around them?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u15	V.E.G. President. I'd like to call attention to a case that hasn't had much coverage, but it's part of a big, important case for Iceland. Great hopes are held by the Sea, which is at the root of sustainable use and protection of the sea and is designed to produce ideas of marine protection. A contract about the harbor of the Sea was signed at the International Northern Conference, which was conducted in Harpa last year. Margorus holds her arms on the job. The project is supported by a number of sources, the Environment and Resource Ministry, the city, the city's universities and various other institutions. Most important, there is reason to list the Chile Technologies, which are an enterprise of green technology and a number of other technologies. Few countries are as dependent on clean water and sustainable use of resources as Iceland's resources have been the basis for the country's well - being and progress. Therefore, Icelanders should be on the lead when it comes to researching the ocean's condition, the rules for protecting it, and the development of environmental and resources to protect the environment, including with the use of renewable energy, and with a broad network of enterprises and institutions and the use of knowledge already in order to increase awareness of changes expected from climate change and by increasing shipping tours in Icelandic land weekend. It is estimated that, among other things, the ocean's work may cause Iceland to become a leading force in the north, contributing to the protection of the environment around the country and the sustainable use of marine ecosystems. In the technical and mental sector, more and more valuable jobs can be gained and the general understanding and knowledge of the ocean and its importance. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u16	A respectable president. I have previously mentioned laws that we set over a year ago on resources to help those who have had no other way out of their debt problem than to go into bankruptcy and were going to make them stronger. The law was to be revised before the end of the last year, but it still doesn't pave up on the bill from the highest level. Social Affairs and housing minister on that matter. There seems to be no need to revise the law because it is of greatest benefit to those who go that way. So I now state that the Minister of Social Affairs will review these laws here at the council so that we can discuss them. In fact, the Minister of Social Affairs has not set up a regulation on the subject to take place, and it is more than a year since the Law was given. It may be delighted that this Regulation has not been given because the pages sent out at the beginning of January seemed as if they should still be pressing on people who want to go this way. I call out that the fine social minister, who was a very powerful spokesman for those who were in debt during the last term, the senator Eygló Harðardóttir -- now that she sits over these matters, all of them will not agree on anything. It doesn't pave up the number of posts that were ready when she got into the office, it doesn't pave up the bill for decommissioning insurance, it doesn't care about keys billing. V.E.G. Social Affairs Minister for all these matters here during the last term. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u17	A respectable president. I'd like to make up the subject of birth vacations, employment insurance, and the Labour Department. Many facts have been written about labour markets. In the future, there are collective agreements, and the market itself, professional drivers and labor workers, is known to want these assignments to come into play. In view of this, I make it a subject, a respectable president: Why is it not seriously discussed on the part of the state that the employment agency, the employment insurance and the stock market will be placed in the hands of the industry and the labor unions so that the organization itself will provide the effective resources that have to be kept around, rather than the government's pocketing of projects? I'm thinking that we here in general should not discuss that matter together because we've got enough talk and we're wondering if the collective agreements should be in percentages or centenarians, or if this group has had enough or the other group had enough, or how things happen on the island, something that we as members of the Parliament have nothing to do with, and is not in our line of work. We can have opinions about this, but it doesn't matter when it comes to the bargaining table. However, there are certain labour market schemes that could benefit those who need them, that would be closer to real time, closer to working with those involved in this mountain, and that would not be the case with the State.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u18	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir For a good talk, Ragnhell, the Ragnheiður of Ríkharðsdóttir, can tell us what to do. Senator that we can discuss this with 2nd. about the government budget bill, and I think we should. I'd like to give it a heads-up for a reason, because of what. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir discussed what I discussed earlier on the threat of terrorism - that it is not a fear - inspiring thing to point out the danger of a gang of crime. It's just not panic propaganda. I hope, a respectable president, and I know the police are watching it and will. Unfortunately, you've seen bad things here, but hopefully you've never seen bad things as bad as we see in our neighboring countries. I agree with every word that this morning's morning's newspaper reported on by a criminal at the Helgi of Gunnlaugsson's Weekend. He also points out the obvious, that we need the nature of a matter as a matter to be careful, since there is a fine line between ensuring the security of the citizens and not opposing their civil rights. It must be very careful. But let us not speak as if this is not a problem. Then again I'd like to compliment you again. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, calling attention to the fact that I've found a dog. A member of the Parliament who dares accept to join the European Union. The others are in the game, a respectable president, finding out what is available. I hope, and I hope we can do this afterwards under the discussion on the International Parliamentary Committees to discuss this exact feature. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall mentioned. I think there is good reason to discuss this under the EFTA and ESA report and to review exactly how members of Congress and individual states are affected within the Community, the European Union. Let's go over. But I've already found one. A senator who wants to walk in the European Union, the others are still at the party game designed by the United States to find out what is available. I look forward to having meaningful discussions. þm. Robert Marshall and how else. Parliamentaries who wish to walk in the European Union to accept it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u19	It should be noted that the third part of the program will be discussed below, on the subject of forced sale, that too much has passed since the release of the Senate document. That is why, and the president plans to have a vote on the variants after the special discussion that is about to begin, starting at half an hour.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u20	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss national flights that are very important to us Icelanders. The international flight may be one of the main event at the head of plans for automobiles and private vehicles. We don't live here in Iceland with train transport. However, in recent years the international flight is a high level of travel and costs have increased. This is a source of concern because many people have to use domestic flights, both for the sake of business ventures, for their work, and for health care. The international flight is a network that connects towns and villages on the land, and the net could be more dense than it is. We do know, however, that this is an expensive road trip, and we also have a few races. Hence, the decision was made by a former Minister of Homeland, Birna Kristjánsdóttir, to put into consideration the potential for reducing the cost of domestic flights to those it uses. The aim of the group was to identify the current service group, but the main objective of the group was to assess the local public fees, which are placed on the international level with the objective of checking if the transportation could be reduced within the country. This group, consisting of senators and professional officials, found that there was no wealth in paying off fare. In short, the conclusion was that a relatively easy convention could reduce the fare of each leg by 1,800 bucks. Mostly. The Outfit concluded that instead of paying services, the State would come into this public transport and instead of paying fare and landing charges would come for state strength. True, it has a common goal because there are no national policies available in the EEA, which means that the city area of Reykjavík is hardly a public airport. However, there are other airports in the country, so they should be able to live up to this law. If passengers and landings were dropped, it would cost the state funds by 400 million, and on average, it would give every person a one-way ticket of about 1,200 bucks. It cannot be overlooked for improvement. Then the group imagined that a change in the cost of a tax system would be possible in order to reimburse the cost of a passenger transport by flight. By changing the value of tax laws, about 500 can be obtained there. to lower the fare, which means we're in about 1800 bucks. Which I mentioned earlier.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u21	V.E.G. President. First thing I want to do is thank you. the head of this discussion for taking this matter on the program and for leading the members of the State Department, who were assigned to review pay on national flights and possible decommissions. The report came to my attention last Monday, and it's for the Ministry. The international flight is one of the linkes of the country's transport system. I think it's a vital component of society as a whole. Government policy is to integrate and work as much as possible on policy, action, and traffic in the transport system in a safe and practical way. We need to look at how these systems of public transport on land, air, and uterus can best serve the different needs and spread of the land. In fact, one aspect of the transport system cannot be discussed without referring to other factors. However, the cost of flying is high, business, flight structure, flight history, flight control, and human life, with all these factors, we put great emphasis on safety. These costs pay users who are passengers and pilots and actually the State to a considerable degree. In addition, the State pays down a section of the operation of certain systems, as we know. It's undisputed. It is also clear that flying is a vital part of our country's transport. What is disputed is how we will run this system and how we will split the cost. Among other things, the report on domestic currency shows that public costs are small in the cost of each load. The results point out that the decline of passenger and landing charges, as well as the decline of the value tax of internal flight resources, would result in an average of 1,700 to 1,700,800k. the price of a plane drop. This surprised me, for the discussion has often made a great deal of the high price of the state of flight. So I don't think that it makes no sense in this matter and that there is no total solution to canceling these charges on its own, as the report says that although this demolition results from a lower price, it may not be that it would mean more passengers. Some 60% of the internal flying passengers pay their own cargo, while 40% are those who travel for their work and get their ticket paid. In the past two years, there has been a slightly reduced number of internally experienced passengers, about 2.8% in the last year compared to 2013. All passengers at most of the planned airports have declined, but the exception is Gímney and Húsavík. The reports on the decline may be a few, but there are no doubt a heavy impact on domestic prices. Will we view these developments without intervening? Do we want to reverse this trend, or do we really want our system to remain unchanged by the government's means? If we want to keep an internal flight that seems absolutely necessary to me, we need to consider what state's coming to be. It is necessary to ensure residence in certain parts of the country, and transport authorities need to ensure the necessary financial support for this purpose, and this is why specific routes of flying are a source of strength. But the question may be, Is it necessary for the establishment of the State to support other aircraft? Is it possible for the international flight to exist on market grounds apart from these strong means? Is the role of the State to strengthen the growth and structure of airlines? Is it possible that the international flight will provide opportunities for travel? The percentage of international tourists is increasing in the international air, and I hope to achieve this goal of growth. I think it is very important to consider further markets on the national flight as part of the national total transport system at the time of international flight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u22	V.E.G. President. A team returned a report on the international flight last Monday. It shows that by quitting all official curses, the shipment can be reduced to a maximum of 4%. Today, the State's budget is no greater than that. If you suggest that they be dropped and the State come, you can ask the highest question. Interior Minister: Is the Minister of the Interior willing to take advantage of this budget, if it could be done out of all the rules we are committed to? Based on the transport program we've seen and what we're going to do there, when there's no money on transportation, practically nothing, I don't think that money comes from the government, at least now. It's interesting to me that a government service group has reached this conclusion. We'll get it done. Yet, it remains to fly the longest way out of the country - the ticket will be taken from 45,000 pieces. down to 43,200 or something like that. That's all the downs. But there is something else. How much would the cost be increased if Reykjavík's airport were laid down? There's no 1,800 k. That's a minimum of 101⁄215 you're talking about. K, even 20 yrs. A k., which would be added there. I respect it, and I've been thinking that we should give the Rackham Committee some time to finish their jobs, but I regret what is delayed to conclude, so I've thought that everyone should wait a bit. However, it was not done to the Valmans, who, although often held by Val, the person standing here cannot support this time. This is the story. There are only two options in this situation; the Reykjavík International Airport, where it is the centre of an international flight, something of course changed to conclude with the city if possible; or to move the centre of an international flight to Keflavík with the unrecognizable cost, which I mentioned earlier, and an inconvenience to flight passengers. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] At that time, the number of passengers will decrease by more than 2% per year, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u23	Mr. President. I'm most sure to say that I was sitting in the group that's been exposed here, on reimbursement of domestic flights, and on possible ways to reduce the fare. It is not surprising, in itself, that the international flight was worth fighting for. Many interactive factors have weighed down there; the economic situation in general and the level of subsidies, high fuel prices below the last, the weakness of the crown, has a negative impact on air traffic because it is closely connected and dependent on the cost of foreign coins, and, of course, increased spells forced by man to take action inside the flying system. At the same time, such large - scale financial efforts have been made to strengthen public transport in a country over the past two, three years, that is well done, but all of this must be kept in mind when the international situation is examined, for which we see very negative trends in many years; the number of passengers in the number of years from year to year and the growth of foreign tourists, who certainly take advantage of the international flight considerably so that about 17% of Iceland's airlines population are foreign tourists, is not sufficient to weigh down in the number of landings in that area. So, there is much at stake to reverse that trend. This is an enormous amount of money, since without the domestic flight, many parts of the country are severely impaired, and it would simply not be possible to operate the education system or the health system in the country in the way that is being done today if there were no relatively payable air travel. So I think the monopolize to do that experiment, if we say as much as the staff suggest, say for two, three years, drop passenger and landing charges and reimburse the fliers of fuel tax, it may be enough to lower the fare by 121.715%. Would there be much work to do if these developments were to be reversed? If passengers repopulate, the rate of the flight will improve, and we will be able to get out of the negative spiral we've been in lately and have turned the flight down. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u24	A respectable president. I'd like to thank the advert, please. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice. No one needs to doubt that air travel is of great importance and that it is the most important thing where transport is difficult between the area and the capital. The flight serves the role of public transportation for these areas, so it needs to be part of the public transport system. There are many important means of access to flight, but mainly the price and availability of an airport on both ends of aviation. After a trip through the North and East, in recent election weeks, I realize that flying there is a goal in life, which is important, and there is high expectations of changing the future price of a member of the head of the local task force, only when the full price of flight is up and back between Eglst and Reykjavík is 47,300. It was also clear that citizens and executives of professional life are deeply concerned about developments in the city of Reykjavík and that governments require access to the capital. In the winter weather weather, there may be bad luck because the cost of an emergency route has been made clear, but it has also revealed how neglected Reykjavík's air station is when many people have to wait there because of a flight disorder. Regarding the city of Reykjavík, I wondered, " What is the responsibility of Reykjavík? ' Now it's clear that the nation, i.e. State, airport. If he is organized out of the Waterstorm, should not the city of Reykjavík be required to provide organizational improvements? Or is it just city to finance a new airport? So I'd like to ask the highest. If the city of Reykjavík continues to attack the airport in the strength of its means, the secretary of state whether organizational improvements are not valid.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u25	A respectable president. I thank the advocate for this discussion, which is very important, and I also thank the working group for their contribution and the report of the good that I hope we can use to lower the international flight. I felt that there was something special in the discussion of the natural pass that it was claimed that we would have to post a fee on the domestic flight, but then we could just take some fee from the international flight. In fact, this does not really help if we are going to reduce one price and reciprocate it. As a result, I didn't think this was a good idea. As we have seen in the discussion, it is in fact more expensive for residents in such places as Eglsmana to come to Reykjavík and get back to their homes than for Smokelands to turn to London. Today, we need to attend various services and work even to the capital, and it affects living conditions that these roads are good and not luxury for those who can afford them. If you look at the composition of those who use the domestic flight, it's also very interesting, it's a lot of people who go from work to work, and the government also pays much of the fare. I think I've been on my own very rarely, but I usually come to Reykjavík for work. I think it's also another thing in this which is distributing tourists around the country, and I think it's very important that the international flight is realistic and not too expensive, and it's important that there's at least a possibility of an imminent competition. I don't think there's any chance of competition, there's two airlines flying to Akureyri. Maybe it's only realistic that there's one thing, but it's important that the government arranges it so that a new company, which sees an opportunity, can jump in. I think she can be as important, this imminent competition, and just real competition, if you know what I mean. If I don't, I'll thank you for the good discussion here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u26	President. This is a very urgent discussion. I only looked for a report from the member of the Minister of Internal Affairs on a domestic flight. It's complicated, and it's not simple at all. It plays in a very hot potato, which is the location of the airport, but it is very important that this air system, access to which the people of the country have access to, not to be broken. I agree with what was presented. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfurfurson's son on which way to try, test this for two to three years, and of course the costs and fuel are heavier. I was also surprised at how little it would matter if the public fees were dropped. Of course, there is a need to become more familiar with the possibility of traveling throughout the country, but this is primarily a major transport tool for those living here, especially in the winter. We all know what the haul is like in many parts of the country. I support an experiment by trying to increase the number of passengers, but if the experiment fails, we have to take on some drastic action that may involve more than we've been given. If, for example, this service goes to Chefavík, you will need to consider the discussion and learn more about what would happen.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u27	Mr. President. Gotland, a Swedish island in the Baltic Sea, reminds us of a lot in Iceland. She's barren, she's a great sheep raiser, and she's a very popular tourist resort. [[Up front.]] I went there last summer as a tourist and noticed that when I bought a ticket online, it was a lower price for the Gotlands. Gotland is now in the Swedish state. The Swedish state is in the European Union and it applies to the EU rules. I have not investigated for the reasons that Gothland can enjoy these specialists in the European Union, but I have found that it would be of particular interest to me that it would be considered more closely on the part of the Ministry of State whether such discrimination is possible to be carried out on this country as well, since it is so that air travel is for various means of access to travel between travel, for others than for many citizens of this country, this is a vital means of enjoying services and other factors that are actually available only in the capital area. This is an enormously important case, and I think it is vital to see if there could not be one way to direct all the funding and subsidies to those who rely on flying as a basis for a particular welfare. With regard to the speech of the Minister of the Interior, I agree that increasing the market to foreign tourists is very important and that it uses the fluctuations there to increase the number of international flights and thus to improve its growth. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u28	Mr. President. It would be ugly if we had to join the European Union in order to reduce air traffic costs within the country, but I hope we can't do this on our own terms. I believe the flight is our public transportation within the country, and in many parts of the country, it is. Today, the price of evaporating is far too high, and it has been observed to leave this longest range from the capital area to high 50 of yours. K. Each of us realizes that a normal family cannot afford to take advantage of this as she would have chosen. The general population of the country that lives far away from the capital area has to attend here at the capital area various services, cultures, health services, education, and many things to say, that I do not talk about the safety of the hospital at the National Hospital, the highest-tech hospital for the entire population. It's very urgent, and I think it's a good thing that this group of people has been formed to explore the possibility of reducing the price of air tickets in any way, that the state might come in there. I hope that people will be working with this, and it is said that this will cost me 400 million, and I certainly have a measure of concern because last of the budget was cut down to the international airport and the Romanian route. We need to defend these factors, the state-sized legs are very important. In some parts of the country, these may be over the winter of the only transport the person's home has with the capital area, from his territory on the highway. It's important to all the people how this develops, and I think it's good to be working on these things, but not too long. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u29	V.E.G. President. I'd like to start by saying thank you for saying something, okay? paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice for taking up a domestic situation. First, I'd like to discuss the link between international flights and increasing employment, tourism. I believe that they can see a new opportunity by opening up more airports into the country, for the vast majority of tourists arrive in flight through Leifs's son of Evolution's Air Station, and so there is a great rush at tourism sites on the south and southwest corner of the country. If more portals are to be opened and targeted, I am convinced that the distribution of tourists would be better, and this service would spread more effectively across the country. Also, by expanding airports around the country, it strengthens the whole system, such as by a spare airport. Airlines are obliged to record a reserve airport at the target airport and have arrived in the Americas that pilots have had to record a reserve airport in Ireland or Sweden. In the second part of the talk, I would like to talk to you about the area of Reykjavík and to reiterate its importance in the community. Reykjavíkur Airport, the center of national flight, plays an important role in the transport of the capital and the country. The airport plays a key role in the linking of the country to the core services of public service, which is mostly in the capital area, the link to the health system, the Land Hospital, the Hospital of all of us, and the need to be close to powerful transportation services, and, in addition, as more members of Congress, I can name the educational system and general trade and services. I believe that it is important that the representatives of all the people of the country, not just those elected by one community, make a decision about the future of the airport. That's a lot more democratic and more reasonable. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u30	A respectable president. I come into this discussion only to raise an idea or a question as to whether it has ever been discussed here or to think of simply looking at the speed of a train rather than a flight. Today, there is great uncertainty about fuel and its future. I may feel short of long - term thinking, what we will do in the future when oil no longer exists. We need to look to new technologies. There are now very exciting things happening around the world about speed trains that use magnetic or electromagnetic fields to travel and go very fast. I just wanted to put out that idea.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u31	V.E.G. President. I thank all members of the council who have participated in this discussion. It is particularly satisfying to hear the loneliness of the international flight and to share the concern that the flight is more expensive to us than it should be and, as a result, prevents humans from using it, common passengers, as desired. I want it to be directed to the highest, too. The secretary of the state that what is stated in the report of the service group that has been listed here will be considered and will seek ways to reduce transport costs so that the flight will become a more public transportation policy. It is true that Icelanders are starting to look at the possibility of travel by train. Of course, we don't know what will happen in the future, but I want to thank you. paritaprevir Halldóra Mogensen for bringing this proposal. Then, at the end, I want to use the time to impress people in that Reykjavíkur Airport is the lifeblood of all the people of the country. If we become divisive, we are in a much more difficult position. It will cost us a lot to build an airport somewhere else. As he is now, he serves his place very well, and I hope so remains.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u32	V.E.G. President. I thank you for this discussion and for the indications that members of the Parliament have suggested to me on the basis of this report. I think it was very important to get this conclusion forward, and especially how small a part of this official spell is, it's only clear how things are, and we can talk about it from the facts. I like to hear it. Councilmen point out the tourism service. It is an extremely important part of business in the country. 17% of the pilots who fly in summer are foreign tourists. Now we see in winter that the land has been filled with foreign tourists too. I think there's a significant chance that there's a direct market in trying to use the flight, this important tool that it is in the national global transport system, and market the flight for foreign tourists. I also want to reiterate what I said before because of the Icelandic airline pilots who take advantage of the flight, but there are 60% of those who take advantage of the international flight that themselves pays for it. 60%, there's also a considerably high percentage. People come to the capital to attend various services. Finally this. The growth and maintenance of domestic flight also involves releasing the airport in Reykjavík from the bonds and provisional conditions that he has been in for far too long. I hope that in the work done on the behalf of the Committee called Rakka committee, something is seen in that country, but, of course, some people will have to take that up to the end of the way in which they envision the international flight. It is clear that Reykjavíkur Airport is the door to the national flight.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u33	A respectable president. I recommend a bill to legalize the law of forced sales and thank you. Today's program is being arranged by members of the Parliament for paying the route of the matter. The bill suggests that a forced sale must be postponed on the request of tolerance in the cases where the applicant will correct the security mortgages awaiting the final result of his application. It is suggested that the warrant be temporarily removed from October 1, 2015. In accordance with a domestic legal action programme, no. 35/2014, on correction of the privatized estate loans, of which value 18 May 2014 laid the basis for setting things straight with the prices of home estate loans between January 1, 2008 and December 31, 2009. It was necessary to postpone forced sales while applying for correction and to be allowed to delay forced sales until March 1, 2015, by law No. 94/2014. It was then assumed that the treatment of all corrections would be completed prior to that time. Clearly, more time has taken to process applications for correction than was originally expected. Although 78% of candidates for correction have now agreed to the results of the government taxpayer, there are still applications for 5 of you. individuals who did not care for the office. In that case, some 200 individuals have reported the results of a national taxpayer's decision to a special U.S. commission and the final outcome in this case is not available. Therefore, in the cases where the applicant is awaiting a decision regarding his request for correction, it is necessary to postpone new forced halls, so I offer this bill for the continuation of a forced sale. According to this bill, the county's requirements for postponing a forced sale are all the same as the law No. 94/2014. It is thus required that housing should be prepared according to the planning and building authorities, as well as that there should be a legal home and a home for which to be maintained. As in the past, tolerance without the approval of the demands may be requested at regular intervals for the continuation of an auction or for the continuation of it. At the same time, it will be with the approval of every candidate and highest bidder to postpone the claim of property sold in the continuation of an auction but is still in the so - called consent process. Since this delay of forced sales is specifically intended for those who have applied for correction but have not received a final result in their case, it is also made necessary to delay the results of the head of the state tax on his application for correction or that he has been reached and charged with a decision-making committee. A shopkeeper is permitted to postpone a forced sale for up to three months at a time. In this way the deadline can be given more than once provided that the person shows that he has not received any definitive conclusions in his case. It is suggested that the warrant be dropped on October 1st, 2015. A respectable president. I've now made an explanation for the bill. In the capital area and in the South, the county service, where forced sales are mostly about 350 property every time, where tolerance has applied for correction. Nursing sales of these assets will begin right after the month - to - day convention. Therefore, it is important that the bill of this bill be given a quick release at the General Assembly so that the decision to postpone the forced sale can be made in the event that tolerance meets these deadlines. So I suggest that the bill will be followed by this discussion. A full commission and a 2nd.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u34	A respectable president. In 2010, Senator Ólöf Nordal responded to a speech given to the minister who gave the bill to postpone the forced sale. The Senator Ólöf Nordal called attention to the fact that the problem was only delayed, that it could increase during the deadline, and told the minister that the vast number of forced sales requests showed that government resources were inadequate. The Senator called for the minister to take drastic measures to save the many homes in this crisis. So when the senator has become the minister of the same family, it is reasonable to ask the minister: "Where is the key bill referred to in this convention in 2010? Where is the key bill adopted by the Independence Party National Meeting? Where is the key bill that the Independence Party promised its voters in favor of the last election? The people underneath will not be able to solve much of their problems after a limited amount of correction from the Agency's suit. The vast majority of these people have problems much bigger than that. Therefore, whether it is next month or later in the year, it will have to be faced with forced sales unless the minister takes drastic measures to save these households. Therefore, I reiterate my question to the minister: When does she bring her key bill, which her company promised?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u35	A respectable president. Thank you. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar for being so remembered and recalling my comments here in 2010 on domestic debt problems. It's no secret, and I think I even said that during the discussion now for Christmas when I suggested a delay in the forced sale, that, of course, a permanent resort is not postponing an exodus. In time, of course, we have to get these things back to normal. I sure hope it won't be so that you have to come over and over again with such a postponement. However, because a large group of people are still awaiting a conclusion in the matter of correction, they must be equal in this, and they must have their own start. Then, of course, the biggest help available to Icelandic households is that the country's economy becomes more stable. This has changed dramatically since 2010. Here we see much more expansion in the economy and see a brighter age for homes in the country. That is the real solution that matters when we look to it. In five years much has happened, but it's extremely urgent, and I agree with it with the passing of time. A senator, that we get out of this temporary situation that the delay of forced sale has been. I really hope that during this period until October 1 we will be able to complete the five thousand events that await us. That's a huge number of cases. It also shows that there are complex issues underneath. This assignment must be completed now. Then let's go back to promoting our jobs. That's how we help the homes of the country best.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u36	A respectable president. This bill is worth a fine price, and we in the government stand have promised to pay it through the council. True, it is odd to have to do this twice in the same winter, that the minister has no more forethought than to have to bring it through by subtle means. It is also a fine price to talk about promoting employment and improving the economy for a long time, but it will not save thousands of homes that are overbidden to their homes. The Independence Party National Conference agreed that a key bill should be registered, and all members of the Party promised a last election that a key bill would be passed which saved the thousands of homes in danger of retail sale. I'll ask the minister again because the Minister didn't answer earlier: When will the Minister of the Independence Party, but the party has now been in charge of the Ministry of the Interior, to enter the council with the key bill, and to cut down this home from the snare, as he promised them? [[The president calls.]] It is a responsibility to give credit to needy homes, and that is what humans should do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u37	A respectable president. In itself, I can agree that it would have been better if you had a clearer picture for Christmas, when we delayed an invitation to March 1, because of the length of time it would take than because this process is being taken, I don't think the deadline is too long for the future. I was hoping that we would have to understand these things better by March 1 than I've done, and I would, of course, put my hopes that this time will work. The changes that have been done in the Ministry of Internal Affairs have reversed the policy of this government to accept correction. That's how we've worked at the State Department. It may well be, and I can, as well as repeat what I said here in the early stages, that for a long time, we need to consider how best things are done and the conditions due to forced sales fail. That may well be, and I have a clear view of it, but there is no particular work now in the Ministry of State. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u38	Madam President. Of course, it is proper and obliged to make the way of this matter. The nature of the matter, according to the case, cannot be tolerated, so if this delay is to be extended, it must be done now. The evidence presented here is the pizza order that was supposed to be very simple and that takes like two minutes on a cell phone to order a pizza with text messages but has proved to be a little more complicated than some counted, and a 46.5 spell. It's still untraced. The problem with these delays and repeated postponements is, of course, that there is always time for a person to loosen it and put it back in some normal condition. There must be a way of handling such matters, so there are limits to some important political issues, i.e. how far you can go in taking the rights of those who have demands and who are processing them or who are putting up with them in order to achieve their rights. If you leave now, and you still have to go, you must ask: Is there sure that this is a calm moment for the Viking? Is it safe on October 1, 2015? That's my first question to the highest. Minister. Second of all, I'm just a little bit concerned that these deferrals have been two-way. During their last term, they were repeatedly extended and generally applied, in fact, to everyone. It also seems that the postponement of the first few years of this term will have been in view of the fact that it was working out of the great election hall. At that time, there was a general delay in forced halls in an apartment building, but now it is specific. It is tied to those who have applied. I wondered: What is the position of others who did not apply because they saw that they had nothing to do there but could have just as valid and perplexing reasons for getting another month to sort out their affairs, e.g. that they have come to such a slow conclusion in disagreements about legitimate loans that rested on their housing? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u39	V.E.G. President. We at Internal Affairs have spent some time explaining the potential time frame for this. There is no secret, and it has been reported many times that this has taken a lot longer for a governor than expected. In fact, not everyone was surprised because it's a complicated issue, but it's cause for concern that this may be five of you. That's a considerable number. We do not know, however, how many of them are on the auction road, that is a completely different debate; there is no way to conclude that there is a great deal. We do not know, but we do know that 350 cases are waiting for an auction. This tribulation was also in the bill I gave before the Millennium, and in part it is because we are trying to get out of this situation into a permanent situation. We've been postponing since 2009, and I always paid a street myself in the council, as we do in this crisis we face here. It is becoming urgent that we see ahead of the future ship and finish this chapter. Hv. A senator in particular asks why this is not in general. However, it is always possible to delay the approval of the worker before the omission, but this is part of getting out of this, finishing this chapter, and getting back on our usual course. With such an intervention in the right demands, it cannot be good indefinitely.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u40	No, Madam President, this is not a pleasant matter, and perhaps the present government parties are now realizing that there might have been more tolerance in their ranks during the last term when others were dealing with this extremely difficult and difficult situation. That's when it was simple when the government was talking, so it's just what it was saying. [[Up front.]] [[Up front.]] No, but the criticism and attack did not survive, and now it is a little more complicated and difficult. So it wasn't just a pizza order. I heard the project manager himself describe on the radio this morning or yesterday that it was disappointing how long it took, it was complicated, 46.5 you know. paint, estate, where family restrictions would have been altered, etc. Of course, losing one's home does not mean that any relative number is in the position of losing one's place. I realize that the last extension was also tight, but I've been wondering since when, if there were just as much money to get procrastination as they could because they didn't apply, they would probably have their own problems. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u41	V.E.G. President. I have to say, I've never taken it into my mouth that it's like a pizza order paying off a man's debt problem. In fact, I think that when we were arguing over the last term, which way to go has always been very clear on my part, and can be read about in the Senate documents, that we wanted to be supportive of good business to help the homes. We certainly did, but we've always been arguing over ways. Maybe that's why we're each one of us in a different category. We can't always agree on the roads. But I don't think I've talked like there's some action-pocus way in this, I've never been that way. The answer to that question. A senator's point is: Yes, we believe that there is a grammatical argument behind us, otherwise we wouldn't have made that suggestion. I reiterate it as my clear opinion that it is important for us to get out of this auction. I certainly hope this is enough now, but it is possible to say that, of course, I have not seen the case that the governor is dealing with. [[The president calls.]] I don't know exactly what kind of thing this is, but it tells itself that they must be quite varied at this point. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u42	A respectable president. If I understand this bill correctly, it will only include a narrow group of people who have not yet come to the conclusion of the correction from the government tax manager or who have been misjudged and had to be called to the decision-making committee to correct the prices of secure real estate loans. Many people are still waiting for a court order regarding the legitimate prices of consumer loans that the County Court of Reykjavík has said to be illegal, so I ask: What will happen to those who did not apply for the correction and housing of their homes in an illegal business?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u43	V.E.G. President. You're right next door. This is true of those who are in this correction process. A large number applied for it. For those outside it, there's a general rule, and once again I say that's the way it's supposed to be. Because these measures were coming to an end last year, it was decided to go to that end. It has not been possible to complete that situation, and then it is necessary, in order to keep equal justice safe, to continue with this strategy. However, there is always a time when we need to comply with the laws of the land, and that will be the case with other people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u44	A respectable president. I have to admit, I don't quite understand that answer. I don't understand how it's supposed to be this time. What if it comes out of this court order that it was an illegal loan, and then all these people have lost their home? It's not reversible. What is the legal standing of these people? I can't quite figure it out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u45	V.E.G. President. This issue is not about the legal matters of the country, it is about these specific matters. The legislator authority cannot tell me about the important factors that the ultimate right is based on possible conclusions that we do not know what will happen. That must be how we must deal with it when we face it, i.e. When that becomes evident, we need to deal with it. We need to wait for that and see what it involves. It is impossible to enter these delicate legislation and give a conclusion that we do not have.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u46	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in the law of forced sales, with subsequent adjustments, i.e. Delay of forced sale. I'm just going to come into the discussion because it's of course a lot of concern that we need to extend it repeatedly, not because we don't have a reason to live in such a way that we can get out of being forced to sell, but that is primarily the trouble we have to carry on matters that are urgent to get out of the problems we face after the crash and the consequences for the country's home. It has been said that all of this was very simple when the election began a year ago, and now it would be time for all of this to be resolved, and some of the ideal ideas have been developed, some of which have not yet been placed on the table. It has been found that the trouble course has been so that many of the things we need to have answers to, so that the people of the country can know what is coming for them, are not ready at all. The corrective steps have been taken and are greatly delayed with repeated declarations that are now running out, and this will not take time at all. It is primarily a postponement of the decision regarding a forced sale in an effort to include the entire group. I'm not going to argue with you about this. We had already discussed it at the moment. The General and Education Committee is expected to present such a case in case the Minister didn't bring it. Of course, it is a self - righteous thing to try to arrange for things to be done so that people will not be expelled from their homes while working on solutions that hopefully work for someone. This also raises an argument, as stated in the contrast, about things that were to be resolved and that seem to be settled in the debate between the board of directors, such as the key elements, i.e. You could get out of debt by leaving the house and thus clearing off, perhaps even going out of the house without money. There's no sign of that bill. It's not here yet. Is it on the way? Will it come? Won't it come? The corrections are to be done, and for those who do not reach out to those who, unfortunately, are some who, for various reasons, did not apply, and others who did not receive distribution because they were in a certain household formulation, etc.? One operation was arranged to help those who could not afford to go bankrupt. This could be a way after men cut short the period of restoration, so to speak, down to two years so that they could get on their feet in two years. The failure route could then be resources for some, but some people could not afford it, and the banks held to the demands on the individual by going to nonprofit schools, depositing money, and thus holding the bank in doubt that debt hangs on the relevant owners for eternity. Of course, it's completely annoying. So there was a law on paying for a certain group who wanted to go bankrupt for the cost of bankruptcy. This went through the office of a credit agent. However, there are laws that have proved so hard to define that there are very few who have passed through there. The place has to change that law, but unfortunately they have not entered the council. So there is continued uncertainty about the position of these persons. When we were discussing the correction, the main criticism of the process and the way it was chosen to call it a general operation, but it proves to be by no means general, also because it reached all those who had debts in a certain number of years, regardless of when the debt was established, the standard on which it was settled, etc. At the same time, an entire group was left in deep trouble. When we criticized them, we were talking about tenants, we were talking about people in housing partners, and when we talked about and criticized them from the platform. Prime Minister and therefore declared that these matters would, of course, be resolved. But nothing has been done. There is no invitation to be involved in such solutions. Large groups had to take on an inflatable increase in rent and are in a lot of trouble, have grown up to 50%, and cannot cope with it, but there are no options for the person. A building improvement system was expected to be adopted. There was a proposal from the former government. It has been decided to do so after men began considering all the old suggestions and concluded that this was the most reasonable way to do so. Then nothing happens. We haven't had a bill about it here at the council that could solve many people's problems. In particular, I mention Boers, since there is a specific farm plan, it is a housing partnership that is, in fact, an enormous form where people don't have to cover all the markets, can get a safe farm, live in the long run under a particular social structure. It has proved to be a problem, and they had the complete failure if they could call it that, as many of those apartments were new at the time of the crash, and have experienced tremendous increases. The rent in specific apartments and in certain areas has increased from 120 you. K. up to 180 up. K. If you are a widow who lives in an apartment of 90 square feet [90 square m], you are to pay 180 pence. K. and may make a month's income of 2,200 to 250 yous. K. It doesn't make sense. They would probably all be thrown out if they gave up and left out of this nest, since these costs are dropped on the club because there is necessarily no market for buying such a price in the areas I'm talking about, which can be Smokenes, Ak Aranes, Billings, etc. So such matters are completely unsolved. We're not solving them here. We're postponing things, and as I say, it's inevitable as the situation is today, but it doesn't answer all the questions you would have wanted to answer, too, given to the statements made here that this was just an evil former government, that she just wouldn't have any interest in solving the problem. A government would have come to do all of this, but the result is no better than this. All of us can be happy that in the past month, the inflation has been very low, and the results have been significant, although in some respects, it is a fraud, but it must be very careful that it does not return because all these loans are still worthy. Nothing has been done in trying to change that for the future. It has now been almost two years for a new government, and despite the promise that your insurance will not have taken any step in it. You have been informed that you will not take away the right to take a loan that is inflatable, which is 40 years or more, over 25 years. As long as there are no resources for the new buyers, however, it is only an additional problem because these individuals are not able to access the housing market, the rent market, or buy for themselves. This is the situation we live in right now, and unfortunately this bill will not answer these matters. So you must call for solutions to those factors, encourage the government to act, give support to good matters that are presented there to improve this position, and demand that the government stand to examine the groups that have experienced real problems that still remain unsettled in a garden. When we were discussing the correction, we said: "Let's go to the group that invested in 2005 until 2008. In fact, it was the group that bought at the highest prices, took the inflation shot, and could not cope with anything. If we had a focus on that group, we could have made him much more handsome and released him from this. At the same time that humans are criticizing, i.e. that we have this opinion, is to help people who invested 10, 20 years before a collapse, had all the increases on the head position and now an increase in property, and even now after a collapse, the capital area has been up to 10%, 20% which is almost the same as inflation at the time, and the insurance insurance was measured, so, human has started to get back their capital chair, regardless of all the measures. But this does not necessarily help people because we are talking about a rise in payment and paying higher real estate fees, so, of course, it was always the wrong focus to just look at a head chair. But none of this is being resolved. Nothing. It's postponing a forced sale. Done. This is what worries me. I'll do anything to pay for this bill's progress, I'll expect it will be settled at this point. The General and Education Committee this morning, and I don't know that there's any situation there. We will support the bill. I'll do it there, and I'll rush it forward to finish it by March 1 although it's a natural tip that earlier in the past that, of course, the bill could happen two weeks; it was supposed to be imminent, and there were no solutions, but we don't have to travel because of it. Since March 1 it is not easy to complete it, it will be useful and extended to October 1. There is no difference. But I call for all the other solutions, all the rest of the promises, that we will give the young people the answers, the tenants, the Búm, the worst, who will not have resources here, or leave the apartments. What awaits them? Where, then, should they obtain housing? All these answers are missing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u47	Madam President. Although circumstances do not offer a lengthy discussion here, let me do my part in that regard, it is now that when housing issues are taken around here, there is much to consider and there is much to be said about. I only caught up with the earlier discussion of housing during the last term, but I readily admit, Madam President, that sometimes when I think about how much was brought up and said at the time, I sometimes get in a hot mood. In my opinion, these enormous problems and difficult issues were talked with great ease. It is now my wish, my religion, that it is now the highest. Governments to realize that there is now more to making all the housing problems in the country so that everyone will be happy. I guess it's coming in the day. So I'm specifically referring to the non-none-do-to-do-talk. It was the song at the government stand during the last term, that no housing had been done. True, candidates went the longest of them all, so they spoke until the last day and fought their campaign on the grounds that nothing had been done about the housing problems of people in the country. [[Up front.]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. But then, all of a sudden, people remembered that something had been done when these actions were due to be done, when they were going to do the great election stock, you would remember that a great deal had been done and was put into the law that it was all summed up from the help that could be applied on the basis of loss of capital and property savings. It proved to be quite a lot of things that led to, among other things, a large number of people in major problems that would have continued to have action and support, receiving nothing from it, but instead, a lot of people who are well-setd with a lot of money in the form of a head chair or a tax charge and that are improving their status right now from a year to a year so much more important, as any measure of the higher housing status of people are shown. It will become evident later, I think, that for the operation, which was at the expense of the state's funds for the reduction of the capital of some of those with a loan of residence housing, there were adequate social and cultural correction. If we take it now as it has developed in the past three years or maybe now for the past year, with significant increases in real estate prices and when it is added now that inflation is very low, a considerably lower pay number, what's going on? Isn't there a reverse problem, then? Doesn't the loan increase less than the salary and the real value? Are not some of the misdeeds here to correct? Yes, of course. As a result, if this is examined in a slightly larger historical context, there will be none left to be of a presupposition but slight in those who bought or committed at all the most disturbing times in a few years before the collapse, during such a period of three, four years, and particularly those who bought their first apartment. That's the facts. It's the reality of what was so brilliantly drawn up in a committee study, probably the 4th smaller part of the Economic and Business Committee, which had a sharp connotation. paritaprevir Blöndal H. Burgor. Here, at taxpayers'expense and at the future cost, large amounts of money were adjusted to people who never lived and are even less likely to live today with any basis for failure. It is more credit - efficient than it was when it took the loans at its time. Those who took these loans, bought 2000 or 1995, are naturally babbled plus because until the crash and the inflation shot occurred at that time, the trends over the years had been exactly the same as they are now, that inflation was lower, the consumption price number was lower than the pay sheet number, or the cost of buying, so that it got lighter and lighter every year. Real - estate prices also increased real value over many years so that it alone forms property among people who now receive gifts from taxpayers and, above all, from our children. If you look at this in the generations of your life, it's very sad. Then I come to what's more important to me in itself, that's what's happening in the housing business today and what's ahead. I think we should have spent more of our energy on it, senators, looking at the situation as it is, the position of young people today and what they're waiting for in the years, it's not pretty to look at. Of course, tenants have drawn the short straw here and have received no equal support as those who bought houses or borrowed in a certain period of time. The lentil group is still inert in the garden. I've tried to take up that case repeatedly here, moved about the bills, and kept reminding it continuously for almost two years and never got anything but subjugation from the highest level. Government and more share. It certainly follows a group that has been treated in a more adverse way than that of others who are fortunately borrowing. The house - to - house partnerships responsible for the loans of their own apartments have received interest benefits and have been completely treated, such as housing owners, could not enter this operation, so there are many mistakes. The most serious question, though, is the situation of young people today. It sums up this way: Suppose a young couple in the capital area come out of school, that is going to the workforce, is returning home from school, or is wondering how to settle down here and secure their home. The situation is very simple, so you have to own 5 to 6 billion. K. in money to escape through payment and can pay payment on a decent three-bedroom apartment. If they have it, if they can do it or get help from people they care about - not everyone is so well - equipped to have people who can come to help - they can buy an apartment. True, there's a very hard fight here, especially in certain areas of the city, that may be 120 and140 a month's loans. But if they don't get it, they'll be waiting for them to fight in the lease, where rent prices for a similar apartment may be 200 yous. K. plus. That's the situation, and it's not good. That's what I'd like to see someone succeed in instead of being upset by the failure of the arrangement that led up to the fulfillment of the great campaign halls. Regarding the pizza order that I have sometimes called because none other than Prime Minister himself compared the process to ordering pizza, it would be so simple, and then it would be so cool and technically prepared, it was some time in the fall, I think -- it was natural for the day. Since no assessment or investigation of this operation has been made, it must, of course, be done to examine how it is published, and there will, of course, never be accepted that so much money and such a great deal of future commitment is placed on the state as different from the way the arrangement became, for this is a huge amount of money in the form of direct financial expenditures of the State and the lost future incomes of both state and rural society. This needs to be done. Then I think many things will be revealed in that matter, but of course it will not be taken back, there is water under the bridge, as they say. I have to stop mostly in this bill, I've already only come up with it in answers so that I don't have to say anything about it, it's the question if the time limit on this additional deadline is as well as possible, there's a reasonable ocean over doubt that it would be enough to postpone this now until October 1, 2015, or that it is not unnecessaryly far, if hoping that this would all be arranged in the summer. It is important to try to be as close to what is needed but not to have this delay longer than is necessary, but it would also be damaging if we were to shoot under the goal, and this did not prove to be enough and once again had to extend it. [[Up front.]] The other thing that I'm having a problem with, I'm saying that I haven't had a deep opinion of it myself, but only from general standards, it's a little bit in me that here is a special delay in the forced auction to discuss exclusively to the group that applied and is in the process of decapitation. It's simply because if many people I have reason to expect to be, they could show that they actually had just the exact same valid reasons for getting a little longer to sort out their cases, but could not achieve it because they lose their possessions on an expedient, the price of not applying for or not being considered in the specific procedure of the primary delinquency process. Of course, it can be for many reasons, and it is certainly a public arrangement, so that people can say as follows: Governments do not get involved in what is on the market, depending on human relations with their credit institutions, etc. But if, for example, some of the reasons were involved in public relations, for example, in some way they would have stepped in to the fact that they would be able to get a hold of their own matters, would it be clear whether they could maintain their dwellings, that there had been disagreements about the legitimate loans of those who had taken long to be settled in court, then there is not much difference in nature. I think that even though it was done this way last time that there was a tight delay, I don't think it's enough to say, "Well, we just do it the same way again. I don't remember how good men went down that first time. I wondered a bit, I may not have done it specifically to talk them, but do it here now. A respectful Senate committee has only a limited amount of time to look into the matter because it needs to be completed here a month ago. Nevertheless, I would have liked to see that the committee in cooperation with the Ministry that has considered this pass a little bit over it and put it in the Committee opinion, even though there were no sentences on this, a legal explanation, so that you would feel better that it was not taken as a risk to the fact that equal issues were violated by the citizens.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u48	V.E.G. President. Thank you. Congress officials for responding to the rapid progress of the situation. Of course, this is extremely important. I now believe the Ministry's representative will appear before the committee and answer a few questions regarding the legal procedure earlier this year. It was before my time, but I think the changes were well considered. However, I believe it is important that the committee go through it during their work. We think we can handle this at this time. Of course, we cannot say exactly how the work will be done to the governor; we do not know exactly how complicated it is; there is not quite an answer. These are things that are in such a way that they need to be produced. In this case, however, this delay is requested up until the summer month, which we also know less well for us in the administrative capacity, naturally because of summer permits, etc. But we hope that this will do it, and we can end it in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u49	A respectable president. I have come to understand that the director of a professional committee is interested in expressing some views on the subject on the program. For my part, I would like to emphasize that there is room for the senator to leave a silent note about the President's meeting board at this point in the discussion or to come to viewpoints. I assume that there is a different value here on the topic discussion today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u50	A respectable president. We'll take it back to discuss a system plan. As mentioned earlier, we have been told what to do. The head of the trade committee is about to address the assembly in the middle of the rosary. That's what I'm gonna do with the highest. A president or a request an explanation. In the 69th. According to Congress, when discussing a case for a minister or for a judge, it is possible to set aside a rule on the speaker's will. This is neither.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u51	At this present occasion, the president would like to state that the President is authorized to do so. As shown in the 69th grade. he can turn aside the rule of the minister involved and the speaker, as well as to discuss matters, or to make a brief correction or comment that affects him himself. What the president is up to is simply that much was called on in the discussion to produce the viewpoints of more than a part of the employment committee. This is the head of the professional committee. According to the president's opinion, it may be possible to pay for the discussion and to clarify more fully the plans of the job committee that the chairman of the Committee, Jón Gunnarsson, would address the beginning of this discussion that is now about to begin.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u52	Mr. President. I was surprised, and it comes to me, that this case is being arranged on the program and that the president was going to set it up with no explanation of how our wishes had been made by a number of people who made wishes in the first part of 2rd. which would be conducted during the days, to see that the discussion would be delayed and the case would go to committees and would be properly addressed to the problems established by the work of the Parliament and by members of the Parliament in this case. I believe that there were serious comments in the motions and treatments, well - logical and reasonable demands, that at least we would have been given some explanation before the case would be scheduled for its position. I don't think that's a good thing - I don't mind it in my own life. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is allowed to speak here like other members of Congress, and it often has an excellent effect on the platform, as it is known, but it needs to be made up of Congress. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u53	A respectable president. I wonder what's gonna happen to men by doing what's supposed to be done here, i.e. to appoint the head of the trade committee and put it in front of others on the telecommunications list. We've had quite a while, we had yesterday to go through this and to go through the comments that have been made, but there was no attempt to approach us as a environmental and transport committee. A lot of fun came from the head of a professional committee two days ago when the matter was discussed in a very unfashionable way, he claimed that the committee had won the case badly and had a job done by his colleagues at the council. Then I would have thought that it was normal to call out a meeting, and people would talk face to face to face about the matter rather than continue the practice of surprise us all the time. What does it serve? It doesn't serve any purpose. Why is it not possible for humans to sit down, the representatives of both committees, to discuss these matters, and to try to resolve the issues that arise? [[The president calls.]] I don't understand what this is all about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u54	Mr. President. I would also like to express my surprise that this matter is now on schedule. This was widely established during the discussion of earlier days, and it was very clear that the employment committee had to accept it back in or refer to a minister for a better consideration to meet all the critical issues that have been presented. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is going to propose something now, but I'm surprised that he didn't use that time to talk to the authorities who had criticism based on the reviews that came before the committee. I don't fully understand what message he is about to deliver, so urgent that he needs to present himself to others in the order set out in this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u55	A respectable president. I hear that the president refers to a command to take the lead in speaking with and against the case. I'm not going to argue with a president that he can do the way for the head of a professional company to speak in another way, but I think it would be best if a respectable president would join them in the way to the head of an environmental committee, why. paritaprevir Höskuldur Þór Þórhallsson, who has been very careful and who is obviously a spokesman for the other viewpoints. Then we will receive both of the officers who are on the move to present their own side of the case, Höskuldur Thorth Þór of Þórhallsson, on behalf of the council of Ármannsson, son of Aarmann, Elín Hirst, et., and on the other hand, Jón Gunnarsson, the head of the trade committee, on behalf of his officers in the matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u56	A respectable president. I think there's something that needs to be examined in all of this together, the general procedure at the council. We're getting reports that tomorrow morning, in the morning, a discussion should be completed on a worksheet on a frame plan and a new proposal presented by the Chairman and others by the frame plan and by the Parliamentary arrangement proposed. [[For example, consider this point: It was introduced.]] Once again, it has been decided to ignore an environment and transport committee because we have not yet received a request to send a commission, even though it was requested by one of the employment authorities. All this work has become the strangest. The Environment and Transport Committee provided a review of the original Parliamentary resolution. There is a suggestion for an enormous change, and we are not allowed to say anything about it. [[Up front.]] Why? Because they're gonna drive it through, and they don't give a damn, excuse the language, the respectable President, and they don't care what their partners think about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u57	Mr. President. In itself, I am content with the unexplained message that the matter has come to pass. The module was holding 2nd. continued as if nothing had happened... as well as the President of the Generals... who knows well what happened here yesterday. It just doesn't work and doesn't change everything. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson would say here. It does not work that the matter is on schedule and that the discussion is to be continued and not to do anything with the requests and requirements that would be performed properly, that the relations of the committees were corrected, or at least tried to dissipate the damage done by the clever management of the professional authorities and their followers. This is a major incident in the relations of members of the Parliament, so there is a search for something as if it had to concern all of us and the president, including that these matters are resolved. I also had the idea, a respectable president, that the matter would be discussed on the presiding committee. We haven't gotten together since that long cycle was on the other day, so there's a lot that's gonna be a good time just to put the case back on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u58	A respectable president. The point is that nothing has happened since the day before yesterday. When we completed last morning's discussion, the matter was completely upset and not only because of the material situation, for it had been given a detailed discussion that both the case was neglected when it was laid before the council and misworked at the job committee, but instead that there was communication between the employment committee and the environment and transport committees, as well as a complete confusion. Nothing has happened since yesterday that changed that position. She has to change. In order to continue the discussion, three things need to be done: First, the objective of the matter must be discussed in a material way, in order to make the council a waste; second, there must be some balance in the cooperation of committees at the council; third, some lasting creative structure must be established regarding the manner in which these dealings should be conducted. It is repeatedly assumed that the Environment and Transport Committee will deal with the employment committee as a client and if we are to continue with this recipe. It's just not working out by the head of the pro board. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's not working, so I need to revise the members of the Synod Committee and this is a more serious situation than we've seen in the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u59	Mr. President. This gives you reason to consider the interaction between the Coalitional Committee of the Generals. As we know, more things chose. Work committee not to take into account the details of the environment and transport committee. So, what was the expedition going to request a review if it was totally ignored and not taken into account by her and the many comments presented in the reviews presented before the committee? Now it seems to be playing the same game. It was shown today on a job road committee that no information from a environmental and transport committee was sent to discuss a stratospheric plan or Long-term Involved Involvement. A professional health committee suggested that they be added. Then it was completely ignored to accept my request that the case also be brought up by their committees. [[The president calls.]] These are very serious practices that I believe to be the highest. The president should take a real interest in the presiding committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u60	A respectable president. In this case, we may not have had much discussion about what problem we face when the issue of earth's electrons becomes apparent. The idea of these primary products and the synonyms turns around to try to solve very important issues that have crystallined in the last days, just about a limited transport capacity in an Icelandic electrical system. As noted by the company commanders of Dalíkík, and the government of the East, the situation is very serious in this regard. We know of examples in Sigluværd, Dalvik, and elsewhere where candidates cannot be answered to ask for employment because electricity is not available. A land net has not been able to perform any major work for seven years. There is a very important project to be faced. In Akureyri, there's a big company called Becromal. The expansion of their functions has not been considered because it cannot be provided with electrical energy for this expansion. The case is urgent. The entire treatment has given it up. The job committee is a major challenge to the trial. We've taken a very long, long time to review the matter. We've thought, I think, 18 or 19 meetings on this matter, we've been visiting, we've got a lot of visitors on a variety of levels. We have gathered contrasting groups at committee meetings to make them communicate in the presence of the committee, which is extremely rare, on the basis of my efforts in Congress. It's interesting and paid for information, perhaps correcting certain misunderstandings that had been going on. Thus, we have cooperated very closely with the committee in this regard. There has been no criticism from any members of the committee as to how we have handled matters. So I'd like to deny that this is a bad business, as the above claim was to be. I'm criticized for having criticized my job. Environment Committee on this matter. I find that criticism really true, especially in view of the number of comments made. If members of the Parliament are in general going to use a very good trial, it is in my mind that we need to examine matters from all sides. Hv. The Parliament's Environment Committee did not see reason to call on companies such as Landsnet, Energy Institute, the Ministry that presented the case, no energy companies, not Union, not the sector of employment. They are very large participants in this case. I would have thought that to form a complete view, it would have been necessary to hear into these people. This became the basis for the criticism I presented, especially in view of the number of comments I made on the subject. Of course, it is as if we are on a job committee to discuss the matter in a professional way, but of course we offer to all of us who are involved in the environment and have other viewpoints. The main issues in the case have come up with how much we will be able to put off the earth's electric lines in the future. The analysis is not a big deal about putting electricity around the country but about the situation and the lack of trust that has existed in a large number of countries in their calculations at the expense of laying electrons on the ground. We've spent a lot of time on the Committee to review it. The country's network was and in its current law is very tied in with the decision-making process because it simply says that the cheapest way to go is to go. We've watched a lot of ways in which we could increase the impact of earth cables. As it has been repeated in committee meetings, and there is no disagreement among members of the committee on this subject, we want to see as much of the transport system as possible on earth, including high - volume transport lines. That must be the common objective of all of us. But we have a line to follow in the balance between how far we're going in that field and how much it takes to take care of the electricity accounts of homes and commercial enterprises in our country. We changed the situation to a certain extent in our activities and increased the proportion of land cables may be relative to the costs of airlines and the changing criteria as well as the cost of stock costs rather than the costs of new birth time or life time, because the information presented to the Committee would lead to great controversy in the future. In addition, in our committee's list, we suggest that indiscriminate officials be assigned to go to these accounts, that the Ministry will use itself to eliminate the suspicion that is clearly in question. Some of the aspects of the environmental committees are listed in the committee's list of factors to be considered. After discussing the matter, I have already started work to look at some of those points. I'd like to mention in particular the charges mentioned, how we can ensure that envelopes, comments, and charges may be most effective, thus taking into account those who have been involved. I also find interesting the idea that one of us has come up with, and one of us has discussed, that a system plan is actually getting the same place in the council as a transport plan or a frame plan. In other words, much is comparable with a framework and a policy plan and a system plan, i.e. when it comes to dealing with the communities. They're trying to cut the knot that has the position in these issues today in the same way as in a frame plan in which rural communities are obliged to enter their main structure of decisions and results there. I don't think it's something to look at, so the council found it like other people. That, along with other comments, I think we'll take a look. We will wait on the Committee for the matter to enter between 2 and 3. and then with the message that comes with it. We'll take it into account and take a closer look at the opinions of the Committee of the Environment, as well as the other indications that have been presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u61	Mr. President. It is a question of whether the president should not make use of his authority and sides when there is much urgency in the council and allow a longer public speaking period. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, since there is so much room in the plagiarism in general. Unfortunately, there was trouble. A senator at the same hay-garden corner as he used part of his talk period to continue lava over an environmental and transport committee and minimize its tactics as soon as he commended himself and gave special commendation for careful management. It's interesting to have a self - worth at the moment. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, who, over and over again, has let this whole thing upset by his cleverness in his work, still thinks he is in a position to criticize others and to kiss himself. Yet, it was a remarkable statement. A senator, that there are still a number of factors in the opinions of the environment and transport committee that may be a reason to look into them. There is a change from the fact that nothing was done with them, not even waiting for them. The question, of course, is, If what? A senator of his own is consistent, and there are big and important issues such as charges, etc., why don't you call the matter right back into the committee and start working on these items? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u62	A respectable president. I don't know if a review of any self-control here and that self- critical is worth the answer. I was just reviewing the tactics involved in the case. Business committees, and they speak for themselves. I'll say what I'm saying is that this case was covered carefully, and I restate that no comment has been made from any members of the committee, and there was, in fact, a great deal of reconciliation within the committee. In view of the Commission's opinion of the Environment Committee, it must be said that in my opinion it was very modest that the Environment Committee made an opinion on the matter. In mid - November, the Environment Committee took the matter to heart. Some time ago, I explained to the chairman of the Committee that we were completing the trial, and we were amazed at the fact that the committee was on that town and was in no position to answer it. [[The president calls.]] I'm just saying that I feel that a careful discussion needs to be taken care of if people are going to be extremely critical of the situation. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u63	Mr. President. The reason why it is, in my opinion, such a reasonable wish that the matter now goes back to the committee is 2nd. is a basic matter. This requires that there be basic changes that are expected to be made in a case to be taken care of. There will now be no peace on this matter unless significant changes are made. Therefore, they are to return to the committee immediately, so that new 2. changes in the subject may already be obtained. This is especially true since the Council began working in one department, it is very important not to leave it at hand until the end of the month 3rd. ... youmaybesetaroundthemoney. There is no safety valve left. It is against the spirit of the council that was introduced here in 1990, as the president knows, to be on this level. [[The president calls.]] V.E.G. A president must personally see that it is a material and reasonable requirement that the matter be brought back to the committee. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u64	A respectable president. I don't have much to say on this matter before. I think it's only natural that this is the proposed case in the Senate, and we're going to finish 2. the case and then the case comes to the board. It is generally noted that there are some changes between 2 and 3. Umm., in some cases even very important if that is the case, so I have nothing else to say about it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u65	A respectable president. I appreciate your speech. This is where we missed it. A senator and director of the professional station, Jón Gunnarsson, said that much criticism came from members of the Parliament that the bill was badly won. I'd like to say that there was a good job at the General staff Committee, but there's still a lot of work there, the knife in the cow. I think it's three things that I want to share with the senator if he agrees with me on this and what we'll do about it. It's a better look at the reviews of the European Union and the Organization, an institution that has to be cooperated with and neither understood nor understood by these laws. It is a system strategy that, in my opinion, needs to be reconsidered and being at the council to a greater extent than it is currently available. [[The president calls.]] Then there is the chance analysis by the minister, who will operate on his own according to the regulations where the lines will lie. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u66	A respectable president. I'm glad to hear it from what happened. paritaprevir Ólafsdóttir, who lives on a professional committee, agrees with me that the case was handled well on the committee. But she realizes that much is yet to be accomplished. This may be in view of the last discussion, but it did not appear within the committee before we took care of it. And so we were horrified by the Committee, so that it is absolutely clear, that it was reviewed at a meeting that we were required to take the matter out at the next committee meeting. At the time of that meeting, it was still requested to be postponed, because people were going to study the committee's opinion and background, so they were again postponed to take the matter out. So it was a good premise, before the matter was taken out on the committee and no discussion, and no comment was made that it was not available to be taken out.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u67	A respectable president. It was 24 hours apart. The manager announced that the case should be taken out, and then it had to be postponed again. I want to say it, I have the word, thank you, that I was e.g. ill at the meeting the matter was taken out and especially had to report it to the chairman of the committee. [[Up front.]] It's a big, big deal and it's important that it goes through, it's important it's working well, and I don't understand the rush that's in the last record. I like to hear that the Chairman agrees with me that we have to do some things better, and then let's just get the hell out of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u68	I simply reiterate what I said before, a respectable president, that the case when the case was taken out was the way I described it. As I say, no comment was made specifically on the fact that the case was taken out. You're right about what you're doing. Björt She had given us news that she was ill and couldn't Ólafsdóttir, and we didn't get together on the phone to know if she wanted to be with us at a phone meeting, I tried to do it. But this was the case. paritaprevir Kristján Möller, who was with us at a telephone meeting and is on the committee with us in advance. There has never been anything else, either on my part or on the part of others. The job board, but that this case will be discussed and all its views will be examined. In this way we have conducted our work, reflected in the length of time that the matter has been discussed in the many meetings that have been held. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] We will not stop it here and now, we will continue to do so in view of the information that has been presented. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u69	A respectable president. It's a question of why. The head of the pro board is that he thinks it's urgent and important, and I won't interfere with it. But I'd like to break it down. A senator as to their lack of urgency. The work committee concluded the case with all the warnings we have that were well - handled or not. When it comes to such a big matter, then why? (b) How can we be sure that Jehovah's Witnesses do not view the matter in the first place? Environment, conflict here first at government opposition, with a representative of the Management Board on Environment and Transport Committee, with rural areas, with the Organization, with the National Protection Agency, etc. This case is of the magnitude of the fact that it is not working, a respectable president, to the point. A senator thinks he can and should end it with bullying. This cannot be done because the senator is thus preventing the matter from getting normal and becoming the tool that it truly needs to be on this important matter and that he is involved in the matter as the urgent issue he says it is. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u70	A respectable president. I can hear it at the moment. Councilmen who express themselves that the matter is very much about my person in this matter and my aggressive effort to complete and force the case to 2nd. Words can be understood with a sense of urgency. Councilmen say that this is the case. I don't know, a respectable president, whether or not. Senators listened to me as I reviewed the matter. We're nine o'clock high. A professional committee, and there was no senator who made any comments to the court case there was, no one. There was no senator at any party who made a comment about the matter. It was good to conclude that the matter would be taken out. It was not as if it were the last yards of a meeting. Rather, it was announced that the trial was over and that it was time for a discussion. This was not made up of any members of the committee. A respectable president. If there's anything more comfortable with throwing around a dog or something. The chairman of the Committee must be. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u71	A respectable president. It's a natural pattern. This isn't the first time that ever happened. At the council, a senator and head of the trade committee are upset by their tactics, that's not the first time. It is not surprising, therefore, if you are looking at them as a practice, that is normal. Everything's upset, a respectable president. The head of the prosecuting committee is now entering the rosary with a special reference to the council. Special and specific measures must be taken to achieve this. A senator can express himself. We're upset at the council so that, despite all the explanation, this is not enough. A senator's work on a professional committee. That won't do. The situation has become unacceptable. The situation is unacceptable, and why? There is a difference between part of what it is, but it cannot be continued in terms of the development of the network's networks and the environment and transport committees, confiding a line to the European Union, to the Organization, to the environment and nature protection organisations, and setting up a common understanding of how the management should be performed between the committees of the Parliament. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] That's the job, and we won't make it unless it's over.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u72	A respectable president. Because the European Union is specifically referred to in this regard, I would like to report that we received a letter from the European Union, a hint, when the trial was well received. We called them to an extra meeting and discussed the matter with them in particular. We had consulted the Ministry to make some adjustments in the last half of the trial to meet their viewpoints. They may not feel that there is enough work to do, and it may seem unlikely that the way the community's organizational rights are being handled in this matter will cause conflict on their part, at least in that regard. It's not unusual. But this is done in a similar way. A general council has already done things like that, and I mentioned it to support you earlier. In the spirit we have been working on the case of the Committee, which is trying to achieve the greatest reconciliation, we will take the matter into consideration between 2 and 3. and I'm excited to be able to get that job started.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u73	Mr. President. It's about to get a little tired. The head of the professional trade board is describing our opinions on a professional professional committee, that he feels that he or she has the opinion we have on the various issues that we have to consider for the Committee and whether it is at peace with them, a great deal of reconciliation. I don't know any better than you asked all those who came before the committees of criticism questions. Do you need to make a loud voice in order to keep your opinions in perspective when you discuss the matter after a number of meetings? No one criticizes the fact that many people have been present in this regard. It is different than taking into account the reports that came to the committee. There must be a conclusion in this case that no consideration was given to the criticism involved. One word changed, as it were, to strategize, and then the date. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u74	A respectable president. In general, this allows for disagreements. It is clear in this matter that there is a difference of opinion about how far to go, and then I am witnessing to the visitors and reporters whom the committee has received to her and to the stories that we now have. It presents a wide range of opinions. Of course, it is a Senate committee to process these comments and indications and to present their conclusions, or more, with what is presented in the council. I'm not making men feel that way or that way, but it was not requested that we have to see someone more often, it was not requested that we ask for someone else, or like that of the case. If that had been done, it would surely have been taken into consideration with a positive attitude. It's just that kind of thing. However, there was a measure of reconciliation that led to that conclusion. This, in turn, can be viewed differently. [[The president calls.]] A respectable president. I can't help it, but it seems to me that the questions we are in now may have other roots than those of this very matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u75	Mr. President. Criticism on this issue is not about the number of meetings. Rather, it is the conclusion that no consideration is given to the critical criticism presented in the reviews. For this reason, I look with a special opinion on the deliberation of the case, because, among other things, the European Union has said that the matter is totally neglected, and a great deal of criticism has been observed by the Environment and Transport Committee, Land Protection, Organization and other sources. I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Do members of the Independence Party fail to consider the opinions of members of the Independence Party and criticize this case that it is not a well done and that many things had to be taken into account? This is reflected in the review of more parts of the environment and transport committee. Why is this not taken into account by those who are independent and discussed with one another?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u76	A respectable president. On this occasion, all I would like to say is that the members of the Independence Party are at ease. The Commission was on alert to the Commission's opinion. They must account for him themselves, I will not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u77	A respectable president. I can't hear any better than that. The President is offering a vote for an evening meeting, which is somewhat involuntary in what has been done here, i.e. We are in February of the month, and this is obviously the case. The head of the professional car board is fully responsible, alone. It seems that the administrative body will accompany him in it and a respectable president for the occasion of an evening meeting that was not available at the beginning of this morning's meeting. I have to make very serious comments to these plans, and I'd also like to say that I think that there's a reason why nothing else will happen except that the conflict that here has been strengthened by such approach when we should rather use the time to talk together and try to get closer to each other. This is not a big problem for us to see that it cannot be solved if there was any desire. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u78	The president was aware of the situation that occurred last night, which included the conclusion of a president not to have this case planned yesterday and tempted to work there to see if there was a solution to the knot that had come up. As a result, the president concluded that it was inevitable to make an evening meeting, although the president has generally spoken extremely reluctantly to announce an evening meeting as clearly indicated. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u79	Mr. President. It was respectable and wise for the president to interrupt this meeting earlier and to proclaim to the council members in an effort to control the situation. However, the harvest is a poor and truly unique one, which says that it is a vote to go to an evening meeting to continue the same schedule, or whatever, and in a nonsenseing conflict and in the confusion of the discussion on this subject. This is not welcome. There is no doubt that there is such a problem that it would be in everyone's best interest to try to find some kind of bridge in the country. Is this necessary to do so? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson doesn't have to eat on top of the job committee and accept the other, of course, request to take the case back in there? Is there one man here with us all? So, what's the status of the rest of us, including the president? We're all watching this. We all see what's going on here. It's just... why. þm. Jón Gunnarsson... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u80	A respectable president. If it is really the intention of the Generals to make an evening meeting at the General Assembly during the middle of the month in the middle of the term, it can indicate that the administrative issue has completely lost control of the council and plan. It may only be the hope of the situation that has been in contact with committees, but it would be better to seek to put down the debates between the council committees than to have a night-and-night meeting. This is why I want to ask the highest. At any rate, the president has to look for the strength of the majority of the council to achieve his plan.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u81	The president had planned that this vote might take place somewhere near the end of the day. 15 or later, as the president has already reported.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u82	A respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u83	I already asked for the word.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u84	The President is in charge of a meeting. The president noticed that there was a problem. paritaprevir Birgitta's Jónsdóttir had requested the word and had recorded it down and down. A senator is next on the speaker's list.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u85	A respectable president. I am surprised to learn that this is the planned evening meeting at the end of February. It's not like there's a big case waiting around the corner of the government. We learn more about the fact that the big issue is not happening or that they are waiting for it, so there is not much that seems to be a quick spot in that subject. I find this incomprehensible in the light of all the formalities that have been pointed out, to form in the handling of the employment committee of the environmental and transport authorities, which have been pointed out to be a direct formal error in the matter, except for the big issues. At some point, it would have been considered political that we use the time to make peace, and it is completely incomprehensible to be announced here until an evening meeting to continue the discussion on this subject that is clearly needed back into the committee before 2rd. End. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u86	President. It's quite remarkable what a president often forgets me and puts me back when I ask for the word, whether it's for President's conference board or something else. It's really annoying. And it's not like this is going to be an evening meeting. It's intolerable. It's unpleasant. If the president wants to tighten the knot as it is obvious that the president is about to make a good president, because there's a case here that the president should be able to solve. Instead of solving the situation, the president of the professional trade committee gives in, and the entire council is held hostage by its chairman. It's an intolerable way of working, completely intolerable, so I'll say again that if the President wants a war with the smaller parts, he'll be welcome.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u87	A respectable president. I don't quite understand why the government's department at the council wants to create the conflict here being proclaimed by an evening meeting on this subject. V.E.G. The president did a great job of giving time to try to get people together in the meantime, but I'm very kind and obliged to inform the president, because I'm one of the people involved, that there was never any contact with anyone in that subject. Efforts to transmit any message of willingness to such things were not received. It was simply never the will, it was never tried, so it was the highest. The president knows that those whom he is now working by making a decision on that evening never tried, and he was not interested in settling matters. That is still available. There are several things that can be fixed and can be easily fixed if the will is there. In fact, the director of a professional professional committee has said that any of them are worthy of a closer look. [[The president calls.]] Why not do so now and leave the issue to rest?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u88	Mr. President. V.E.G. The president made it clear that we had had had more than a day to try to work on this case and that we were in the same position today. I think it's very sobering that, for example, the management of a professional committee doesn't get along and discuss this. I believe, as vice president of the professional trade committee, we could work in this case between meetings and try to make some peace if there was anything serious behind us. I had a meeting. The welfare committee last night. That's where all my work is different from what I've been through. A professional health committee. Hv. The head of this committee directs the committee so that there is a wide discussion on how to handle the matter. This hasn't been around yet. I'm sorry, it's a professional committee for the time I've been in it since the last election.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u89	A respectable president. I honestly had hopes that something good would come out of that meeting as the highest. The president was with members of the council earlier. What seems to have come out of him, however, is that there is a evening meeting so that a meeting I hoped would be a covenant meeting in this matter has probably turned up in its lobby. This position must be of concern to a respected president, since there is a disagreement between most committees. Hv. Directors of the work programme and the environment and transport board work here. There are reviews from people who weigh heavily that point to something that can easily be fixed, and I pray to the highest level. The president is now reviewing his mind and preferring both committees, employment committees, and environment and transport committees, and trying to find a way to settle this matter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u90	V.E.G. President. I have to admit that I have been very disappointed that the president is going to vote here for the duration of a council meeting and will not be able to take sides in the treatment of this matter. We in the smaller part wish for answers, but more part of the Environment Committee sign an opinion, suggesting that significant changes in the bill will be made because it will go contrary to the trend that has occurred in the past few years, which is further consulted as opposed to the government's one-sided decision. I'm calling for the President to be here for all of us, but not solely a part of the job committee. [[The president calls.]] It's in smaller parts here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u91	The president, the president of the whole Generalis, has tried to carry out his work accordingly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u92	V.E.G. President. I thought that when this matter was addressed, and I wasn't on the program yesterday because of the highest level. The president would have decided to bring together the two committees that would have to be prepared for the matter under discussion. This becomes evident first during the discussion that the work programme has not been accepted into the company of the employment committee, even though it has been decided to send it to a job station by court code and a promise that it will be discussed specifically on the environment and transport committee. It's been a damned mess. Then I thought I was at the highest. The president would have acted wisely. I was kissing the highest. A president before this meeting is to take a break to carry clothing on the weapons and find solutions - an evening meeting. I'm speechless that we're no closer. Here, then, we must hold up some speech and finish our discussion long before the matter is resolved in some final form. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u93	A respectable president. I think there's a very high level of delirium that's going to be on top of, at least that's the highest. The president proposes on the progress of this case. I'm very worried if it's going to be a natural trial and a conjecture, as we've seen in this particular case, that it's all right. I was there for the highest power. When the matter was scheduled to be taken, the president rejoiced to try to get some contact area in it, but that time was not new. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson did not use that time. So, what is the recognition for this day's well - being? A senator didn't return anything? Yes, bringing in the entire council in tonight's meeting. I have to say, I find this very strange, and I feel that a real situation has come up in this case. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u94	V.E.G. President. I have to say, this case is gonna turn out to be a bit weirder and weirder as this day comes forward. Like a lot of other guys. I had high hopes that during a meeting period earlier, I would get the matter into some kind of reconciliation. I couldn't hear better than that. Jón Gunnarsson, the head of the trade committee, told him earlier that he thought the matter was very urgent, that it was important, and that he was excited to have that job. I don't understand why he doesn't call it back into his committee or that the president will assist with that work instead of making an evening meeting. It's pretty clear that they can nap. The urgent work that needs to be started is not started by a professional committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u95	Mr. President. I think the public in this country is not entertained by the practices that are practiced here at the General Assembly and now manifest in this way in front of the international community. It is an old - fashioned practice that humans cannot, when these are so big a conflicting issues are going over them and try to get some common surface to resolve these issues. Rather than sit down as if with a certain sense of reason in their head, such matters should be handled. There must be more to it than what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson to solve these issues and solve the issues that have developed and are critical of the sources and criticisms of his own party and of the network of environment and transport. I believe that this is all people's choice, in view of the fact that there can be a conclusion if there is any will.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u96	President. As other members of the council here, I express my frustration that at a meeting of the presidents of the United States, the president of Congress did not succeed better than it did, in fact, in making more war than before the meeting began. I think it's different than the highest. The senator's president's failure to reach adequate conclusions in this matter must be that people sit down quietly and do the work that I understand was to be done in the past few days but were not out of some insistent practice in some members of the council. I pronounce my disappointment with this, a respectable president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u97	A respectable president. Why is it requested that this part of the program be conducted before the discussion continues? The reason? The head of the trade committee, Jón Gunnarsson, has seen reason to join the Generals' symposium and apologize for his conduct in the matter. He has also seen reasons to have the program cleared at the beginning of a meeting to report two important changes that need to be made because the program has been prepared to come to the 2nd. When this is the case and so it has been decided that the senator himself has seen himself forced to apologize publicly, it is only natural that the committees are asked to meet together, or leading the committees, and to review the comments made. The day has come when the government's opposition was close to the shame that the work was done, and the case has already been so bad that the committee itself has declared that it needs to be fixed. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u98	V.E.G. President. I'm happy to say that the president is offering an evening meeting on this matter because it is very important that people communicate and discuss this matter as seems to exist. I think it's only natural to take an extended meeting time to pay for the discussion, and I think it's very good for everyone to come up with their views. This subject will end at the end of this discussion. and, perhaps, an interview between discussions, so I think it's best only to have the president proclaim a evening meeting on this occasion. Many other urgent matters are waiting, and to me it is clear that days ahead will be very long. So we take and win situations as best we can.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u99	V.E.G. President. I didn't come back for the talk at the top. The president's question of why the interval had not been changed so that when discussing how the situation should be handled, they called the acting chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee. Here we go. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional trade committee, announced that there is a reason to consider some of these matters and to mention one matter specifically, whether the Council is allowed to discuss a system plan. It's the best thing to do, but I don't understand that there is no promise that humans will bring together the two views that have been dealt with here, the environment and the commercial issues that need to be brought together to make peace. I haven't seen any problems finding a good solution. There have been countless suggestions, and none of these are of utmost importance. Whatever it is. The head of the professional trade committee has called for a good outcome and quickly and the best way of doing so is by calling it into a committee now and taking care of it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u100	President. I think that in view of the weak state of the Environment Committee, it would be wise for the representatives of the less part of the Environment Committee to simply settle into the job committee. It is clear that very many of the issues that should be discussed on the Environment Committee are on the job board. It's best just to move the mountain to Múhameð.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u101	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir His Birgitta Jónsdóttir, John, may well have touched the core of the problem. Here, the work is so old - fashioned that with fragrantism, a case is given where it seems appropriate. So when it is so little to ask for reviews from professional committees, it is not the time to wait for them, but more of the employment committee may have known that the review from the greater part of the Environment Committee would not be the positive opinion he would have had received. Perhaps that was why they were so eager to get the matter on the program at the highest level. A minister, a traveling minister of the matter, went over in his front address when she spoke up. She asked for a more careful discussion and made peace with her. That peace can be achieved, not by old - fashioned crafts and fables. I suggest that this matter be taken off the program and worked on the committees of the council, as it is at this point. [[The president calls.]] [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u102	Mr. President. You might start to say what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, as was said in the past: A beast would be Hafliði. They're about to get quite expensive, the events that followed. A senator has repeatedly stood up for the job of the council. It is often good to allow room for air when one is in a narrow position and has not found a way out. That's why I'm asking the highest. A president to help us understand, too, is the highest plan. Now that the presidents continue their discussion of this controversial subject until the night or until the night, do they take everything else out of the program? Has this become such a priority? Or it might be possible to postpone, at least for a time, a discussion on this subject, and a second approach to the program, testing it, e.g. to the evening, would there be room for some bridges to be raised and committees while men were discussing other issues that were being discussed?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u103	The president noted that it is his purpose to continue the discussion on this particular program, but he believes that it is well possible to work at finding a common solution or a conclusion regarding the progress of the matter under that discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u104	A respectable president. I've come up here to say something. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's son, I think it was very sensible he suggested, that the matter would at least be taken out of the program for now, and people would review how to settle the matter. There may be a problem. Councilmen in distress. A professional health committee considers it important that only their opinion be fulfilled, but they are not alone here and at the highest level. The president should be concerned about the respect of the council at such times, the majority of the committees' disputes, the cases are neglected, and even speculations that this is a contingency. I urge a respectable president to make a suggestion. Senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u105	A respectable president. I'd like to agree with the idea that two of the last speakers have talked about putting the case off, another matter being taken on. Then I wondered, since it didn't work out at the top. The president of the United States has made some progress at a meeting with members of Congress: Has the president tried to talk to the head of the trade committee to see if he might be willing to contribute to the resolution of this knot? It sounds like everyone can find a way out of this, and there's no need to stand in the edge we're in right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u106	The President wants to report in spite of Article 4. 10th par. Congress, for the duration of a meeting, suggests that a meeting meeting can last longer than the Senate dictates. A vote for this proposal for the president has been requested. Like what? Congress officials see that there is not enough vote behind the vote. Starting the vote again.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u107	Clearly, there are not enough senators in the Assembly Hall to allow a vote to take place, thus delaying a vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u108	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in electrical law called a system. I would like to begin with my case in the beginning with the views that have come out of the U.S. council members that are best and best disposed, that you can still decide, to postpone this discussion, to take it out of the program, and to take it into place at their meeting, as the proposal has been made. [[Up front.]] I believe it would make it easier and finally speed it up. The matter could be agreed, no doubt contented, if it were, but it would be tested at any rate. Hv. The chairman of the Council's Business Committee started a meeting after a lunch break, and in some respects he met some of the criticisms that have been presented when he said that his opinion would be considered as an opportunity to discuss the development of the electricity system on the basis of a transport program. What is it? A senator going with it? Yes, to accept the indications that have been shown to link decisions in the topic of democracy. Here are democratic elected representatives who will arrive at the discussion, but the criticism has even been found. I'm walking out on this. But that is not to say that he has thus made the wishes and criticisms that have come from the opposition, as it were, and that I would like to make a little out of my case to give reasons for what I want to say. They face a matter that was on the program for the council yesterday, but they did not attend. What would that have been? There is a proposal for a resolution of the expansion of the Ice Age in Lake Þingalval. What may these matters have in common? The fanciful proposal for the Ice Age in Lake Þingalva is going out to strengthen and rebuild the development of the United NationsUCarium, and it leads to various ways to achieve it. I'd like to state that I'm one of the business partners, that's why. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's son, a 1st traveling overseer, is to be praised for his struggle for the life of the Þingval Sea and the Þingalvagar, especially, for 25 years, a quarter of the time he has spent at the council, kept this matter going and made some progress. Here are some suggestions that will continue to strengthen the state of the environment and especially of the Parliament. For example, it is assumed to make a special way of fish through the upperra-Sog activation. The upper-Sog activation, the Steingrimur station as it is called, was built in 1959. I asked why. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson during a lunch break for his evaluation of whether such activation would be performed today if it did not exist. He said that he had no doubt in his mind that he would not. Why? Because humans are more aware of the environment, and more men like me are saying. On the basis of this, a senator who would come forward and bring much discussion to the community on the subject and on the basis of it would reevaluate his plans. But it is very important that such criticism on behalf of democracy has a systematic course, and it was moved out by saying: "This is about the debate on the bill that is discussed at the council, about how we treat criticism into decisions taken in the distribution and transport of electrical energy that can result in so much damage to the environment. And now I'd like to refer to this bill for a review because it usually involves openings. It's 1,4115 lines, and it says, with permission from the President: This bill suggests a number of changes to III. section 0, No. 65/2003, responsible for the construction of the electrical transport system and the duties of the Landsnet Corporation hf. The bill is suggested that we make III and I. the section of the law will be improved by new articles specifically addressing the system of the transport company, i.e. Its preparation, material content, status, conduct, and compliance. At the same time, the bill suggests a change in the current framework of the license of the Environment Agency for new transport workers to simplify and increase efficiency. The bill is made up at the Department of Employment and Development, having agreed with the Power Institute, the Landsnet Transport and the European Union. On 27 June 2014, the bill was published on the job and innovation website for introductions and reviews. More than 20 comments were received by the Ministry, and several changes were made in the bill of the bill with reference to indications received during the narrative process before the bill was submitted to the General Assembly. V.E.G. President. What is indicated in these introductions, in this summary of this series of articles? First, it says that a whole system is being created. These laws deal with a whole system, how we're going to arrange electrical distribution, the rules to apply and the parties involved, the decision-makers involved. I mentioned earlier that people had missed the arrival of the Allied council, and in that regard, I began to reason with them. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son said that it was reasonable to discuss this when we discussed a road program. But that's not nearly enough because one of the elements listed in this 14-line introduction points has to be efficient, that the system is efficient, that people understand what is happening and that they accept the rules of the game. Is that how it is? No. The reviewers who have spoken out, such as the Organization that deals with organization and efficiency, criticize the bill. On these grounds. And the local government, the Union of Icelandic rural society, who have an organization to do in their surroundings, criticizes this too. Then you will agree, that is the third aspect discussed in the opening section. There's talk of consultation. Who would come to the table there? They're listed. It's the Landsnet that's the executive, it's an Power Institute that's a party that agrees and reviews Landsnet plans, these two people are the soles of this building. They were interviewed, and then they talked to the European Union. It is the only external source that was interviewed in the process of building this bill, and the person who is opposed to the bill is saying that we are being taken over in his own district. Now there is no simple question as to what the rules are, on the other hand, for the State and for the rural groups, when it comes to important decisions that turn, e.g. the use of energy. I have often raised doubts about the localities, especially poor communities, that they are pressured or that they feel that they agree with a number of things, in view of their financial inadequacy and would rather have wanted to look to the State in those areas, but that need to be balanced. But here we are more concerned with environmental factors. Hv. paritaprevir In his discussion yesterday, Hjörvar set a fine example when he spoke of electric lines that were to travel from Nesjafield to transport electricity to the Bountemans and go down the Mosfells Valley by the Glakafstein River. Then the government of Mosfellstown, of course, rose and prevented it. Why could she do that? Because she had the means to organize. That's why. This prevented serious environmental accidents and, of course, the organization's turning toward being careful with the closer environment where it is at the hands of the rural community, should not take this authority away from them. The Organization criticizes the bill, the local administrations do the same, both organized and efficient members, leading to their efforts to promote it. Then there's those people who aren't there and who don't. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's Essechénsson indicated that when Steingrimur was built, when he was built at the end of the 1950's, he had to do something about it, and it's a natural protection organization. When the bill is being built, it appears, as in the text I read, that it was not called to the table, but it appeared to the General Business Committee, where it had the opportunity to make its own opinion. As a matter of fact, the case was discussed by the Federal Environment Committee, and the committee discussed the matter, but it was not put into the opinion of the greater part when the matter was presented at the council, and we have heard that it took a long time to win the case. I don't feel that taking the time to work is an issue of environmental responsibility. It's a matter of magnitude that it needs to be done well, that you need to take your time, that you shouldn't stumble at anything in that regard, that's not to be done. If it hadn't been because of the memory of the section that published the Commission's opinion in their cops, this would not have appeared to the council during the discussion, the environmental committee's opinion, or that's how I understand it. I'd like to read a few lines again, this time from a summary that appears with the review of this bill. It says, by permission of the President: ▪ Health makes serious comments to bills for changes in electricity laws. The changes would, among other things, establish that activation ideas in the innovation and waiting category of the frame program can be used as primary users for programmes and implementations of the electrical transport system. This is completely unrealistic and does not conform to frame rules, which clearly explain that while the activation concept enters a new category, much less a waiting class, it does not mean that it will be activated automatically. In the bill, license companies are overly simplified and greatly reduced the decision and organizational authority of rural society. Increased decision-making authority of the transport company (Landsnets) over their own projects would be unacceptable. An energy agency would be assigned a check that the Agency cannot deal with the current legal environment. In whole, the bill would remove from the environment in the country, as well as be vaguely subjugated by the legal rights of environmental organizations due to the decision of individual implementations in the transport system. All doubles should be taken into account in accordance with Iceland's validation of the Aggressary Convention. Here's one more show. It agrees with the criticism I referred to in my above words, but it is also taken to establish, among other things, that priming ideas in the innovation and waiting category of frameworks may be used as core users for the programmes and implementations of a system plan. So, what do we have? We have the manager called Landsnet. Then we have the Power Institute to monitor the Landsnet projects at the time of their arrival and they get their plans for the inspection and approval or criticism from events. But what is missing in this entire building system is the introduction of rural society and environmental organizations. It needs to be handled systematically. It is not enough for individuals to write in magazine or organization, they need to have a systematic access to the case. Then there is the other. Let us make decisions, such as those who have been disputed, that there would be a battery of electrical lines over the top of the country, and then the question is, How would that be? These people would remember that, Landsnet and then Power Institute, but where's the arrival of others? The whole country has been divided into rural society, it has been excluded from all the access to this. There are a number of recent examples of how questionable it is to get your rural society out of a decision - making process, for example, to mention the road law. We recall differences involving the Pigeons Lane in Huna Lake County when the road made wanted to set a road past the carburetor, and the government there was very unhappy about it. Then a committee was put down. That was in the past government, and I had a way of doing it. It was put on a committee to try to settle the arrival of the Soviet government. I don't know any better than it's done perfectly. These are things that we in the government position have been pointing out, that we need to find ways and instead of standing here and repeating the argument from one another, it is surprising that there is no decision to interrupt the discussion and to take the discussion back into the committee because the evidence is known. They are clearly presented by Land Protection. They are clearly stated by the European Union. They are clearly presented by the Organization, and they are clearly expressed by those on the committee who are preparing text for our appointment, for discussion, and then votes. We're in the spirit of the person who says in the bill to ask for efficiency in this important matter. That's why we don't want anything to fall at all. We want to take seriously the indications that have come from the Federal Environment Committee, the Union's Association, the Organizational Organization, and most important of all from Land Protection, which are primarily involved in protecting the country. There is something that we want to do in this discussion, too, to encourage that the discussion and consideration of the Environment Committee be interrupted and discussed there in the light of what has been presented here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u109	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Ögmundur the son of Jónasson for a very fine speech. I have to admit that he was able to put in my fine Senate case on the restoration of the Empire in an unexpected setting. He thought back and wondered what would have happened then if the system we live in today had ruled in 1959. Then it's natural to be completely clear, like a sledgehammer. A senator said that this activation had never been made. There were no studies on the environment at that time and it is also appropriate to review that this is, in fact, more than the driven point. Involved water is one of our most expensive perverts, but because of this activation, life forms were severely shaken, and recovery has been decades, and it is only under the last years of its recovery. I agree completely with what. A senator on the need to have a good system to reason on such issues. This is our defense against man's overexposure to nature. The most important factor in the rise of disputes, which will inevitably always occur in line, is that once the conclusion is settled. Likely, one could never agree, but it would be good if they at least felt that they had been treated fairly and had managed to bring their views to the right of the government. That's what this bill is missing, that's a clear record on charges. It would immediately look better to me if they were clear. What does it say? A senator of that?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u110	V.E.G. President. Yeah, I couldn't agree more. That's what a senator does. However, this is a very important factor, that there is clear information on the charges, but it also requires another way of trying to ensure the system-based access of environmental organizations at all levels of decision-making. They need to get to that table in some way. I'm not an expert on this matter and I don't sit on a professional committee, I'm sure there's a number of ways in which people have discussed it. I'm primarily talking about the prince's general attitude or the very idea that when decisions like this are made regarding transport of electricity through the country, which can result in significant interference on the environment, an environmental organization will come to the table. I also believe the government has to come up there. When I arrived at the council after lunch, I listened to a discussion on the radio. There was an interview with a person I couldn't reach, but he was talking about organizational matters and the presence of the local communities in matters related to environmental problems and stressed the need for us to think overallly. It should be the objective of those who present such bills, to call everyone to the table, and to do so at ease. A senator mentioned, trying to achieve a greater agreement on the rules of work, about the presence of a person in the case. That is what is being ignored by failing to respect our viewpoint more than that of simply asking for a break in the discussion and reinstated by a committee before the 2nd issue. is smart.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u111	Mr. President. Hv. In the beginning, a senator said that he had listened to a graceful speech each. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son and although there were some things to be settled I can agree with that. One thing like that. paritaprevir The case of Jónasson was specifically noted that the head of a professional network committee seemed to be flexible to implement system plans in a similar way to transport plans, i.e. that the council would be planned and that would give representatives of the people the opportunity to discuss them. Yeah, it's a good thing as far as it goes, but as I've understood what is part of a system plan as defined in the bill, it's even. it is assumed that the off-set initiatives are taken. To me, it is like putting forth a program of transportation, where a huge amount of money is spent on roads that may not be laid at all. [[The president calls.]] A system plan will never live up to its name as long as it is a people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u112	V.E.G. President. I was merely saying that the council would come to decision-making on a greater scale than is expected in the bill. Exactly how this is to be done is something that needs to be discussed better. Before some decisions are made, the discussion needs to be discussed. Then, as Land Protection points out, it is totally preprogrammed, and it has been shown in the case of government anti-continents who have expressed themselves on the subject that the priming initiatives of the waiting are taken into such programs so that the Landsnet can use them and the Power Institute should then decide for them. Sadly, we have seen examples of very strange decisions made on those towns, and we now do not allow anyone to make the table of decisions. [[The president calls.]] I was merely accepting the general view of the assembly's arrival.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u113	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Hv. A senator is well - acquainted with local members and their affairs, but he also has a well - experienced session. Between most of the two committees at the council, why. Business and transport committees are now at odds. The review of more than a few parts of the Environment and Transport Committee says that there will be significant changes in the bill, and it will go in reverse with legislation development in the past few years in terms of public and stakeholders and should be encouraged to direct the decision-making rather than on a one-sided basis as the bill assumes. I find that more part of the environment and transport network text is very clear and clearly said: this bill needs to be changed. Now there's a difference between two committees. I'd like to pray. A senator to tell me whether he was a member of the council before experienced the handling of two committees. I agree with what. A senator thought that this discussion should be interrupted, and it is very important that 2 Corinthians do so. can continue after a person has agreed on some reconciliation, if at all possible. I'm asking why. A senator with the two committees and the democracys, if we don't have any suggestions in the 2nd. and that we are told to be content with the application of the 3rd. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u114	V.E.G. President. Now there are two types of views involved in making decisions about the transfer of electricity. Other about efficiency, how to make things cheap. Then there is the other view, what could be the cost of the environment or the community? That's an environmental point. Of course, we need to listen to both. I believe that when we think about the best interests of the country for a very long time, the environmental issues will not be placed at all in the table. Therefore, I find that if I am not to give full consideration to the views that come from the Council's Environment Committee, I feel a little too shocked. Now the directors of these two committees should sit in the side room and agree to take the case back into a committee. Let us not forget that, in general, members of the Council agree on the importance of many factors in these two councils that hang here. That's the fact that we want to keep it as well as possible in a personal, figurative sense as I'm thinking about land cables, etc. That's how people want to do it. And why not base on the good will of all of us to agree on the matter? Is it not true, then, to test whether such an agreement could be achieved by interrupting this talk and reviewing possible changes in this bill? If it doesn't work out, we'll argue about it here, and then we'll vote for it. But we owe Iceland something like taking good care of the country, and that's not what we do by taking care of it in this way. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u115	A respectable president. Thank you. I agree deeply with him in this regard, but my community has established its policies for the period 2014◯2018 following on the planning: ▪ The balance is one of the cornerstones of the community's self - control rights to be respected. Your rural communities are putting much emphasis on their planning, but with this bill, they're saying to your societies, "You're going to have to get in the way of the system and you don't want to stop Landsnet from following that plan. I'm asking why. A senator who knows well the subject of the local community: How do you think the response will be if this law in the bill is not fixed? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u116	V.E.G. President. They will be very bad, they will be hard, creating dull and unnecessary warnings that we definitely should avoid. In all cases, I state that neither the right of a state nor any community is absolutely incontrovertible. At times, factors outside the community need to be taken into account. I'll mention the road to the West, about the Forest, about where the local community's right to decision-making and the rules and regulations we've set at the World Council that involve nature's environmental protection and protection. Things have to be balanced. We also argue about the airport as an organization in a community and then other viewpoints. When it comes to this, it's a matter of respecting the two parties, and it's not done in this bill. The court is taken from him, and I encourage him, and I agree with him. A senator and others in the position of government who have spoken of our efforts to settle this matter and to balance the situation. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u117	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. After the earlier discussion, I was a little embarrassed to see from the pages of the discussion on this subject. It says, by permission of the President: Then, at the end of his lunch, Guðfinnsson K. Gufjinnsson, president of the Generals, led the president of the Professional Association, Jón Gunnarsson, to the Administrator's rosary. It's as if you weren't aware of what this is all about. It's not about whether or not humans are put in front of you. I thought it was a decision to allow the head of the professional trade committee, anyway. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, coming here to cover his weapons, announces that he wanted to have a conversation with an environmental and transportation committee and to look for solutions. It wasn't, and that's what the issue is. Because of the way these two committees cooperated, we are praying that these committees, or presidents, be made up of them by setting up the committees. with the highest. President, to look for solutions in this matter. What we're discussing is acting out, like a dog. A senator entered, which in real life is well pleased to look for solutions. We're in a hurry, and we'd love to do it well, but what ideas do we have? paritaprevir Do you think that Ögmundur's Jónasson needed anything but a good desire to get this case going and try to solve it? It is obvious that this is a more and more bump by taking a stand with the other person and snatching the other person.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u118	V.E.G. President. I have nothing to consider, and I think the government has had nothing to do with checking the highest level. In the preceding discussion, the president has let the head of the professional road committee. I interpret it so that the President was making an attempt to make peace. Then the question was, What was the new experiment on the part of the director of the trade committee? I felt that he was going to reach our point when he spoke of the need for democracy, though it wasn't his word, and then his speech went out to everything else, and he never wanted to take our arguments back into the Senate Committee. It wasn't a new opportunity, I'm afraid. I don't have enough knowledge of exactly how to present myself to make suitable suggestions, but I believe the need to ensure a systematic approach to decisions made in these areas, as well as protection or other environmental organizations. It needs to be a system-based guarantee. We've also talked about the possibility that there should be an explanation for charges and that the lawsuit is better done than here, so I'm going to stick to the general principles. This has to be treated with democracy. This must be connected to the council and to the environment, which I would like to call, i.e. gives environmental groups a chance to make decisions, not just charges. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u119	V.E.G. President. I think it's true that, really, things are being tried to get things like this in a systematic form, i.e. develop long - term plans, three - year - olds and ten - year - olds. My view is that this is the case with the very viewpoints. A senator introduces here, i.e. Environment groups and others, will come to that plan. The problem remains, however, that this bill does not address the fact that it is the case by the General. Hv. A senator was well aware that he believed that this should be so, and I suppose, to keep all justice, to be able to do it. The head of the professional road committee felt that it should be fixed. Then there is the arrival of the local community, to exercise power without any specific procedure. Hv. A senator named Chets Forest. The question, then, is to have at least a way to make peace before cutting. The local community is being set aside on certain matters, and at this point it will be released if it pleases the relevant programmemakers. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u120	V.E.G. President. First and foremost, I want to agree with what. A senator with regard to rural society. I don't think it will ever work to take them out of a decision cycle that matters them and all of us and closer to the environment as much as it really does. Then there are natural factors, which are also of utmost importance, such as the factor that a waiting element can be taken and put into the plans for which the Landsnet and the Power Institutes then operate. I feel totally unacceptable, so on this bill there are big and small baits. I think it would benefit all of us if we took the time to take a close look at this matter and instead of to the end of this discussion and then, of course, have a chance at 3rd. would offer much more progressive and objective discussions to pause, to accept the matter, and then to continue with the discussion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u121	A vote is now being made, as the president had previously proclaimed, about the length of a meeting. Prior to the vote, the president may first call attention to the fact that there are 44 members of the 63th Assembly now, but for a vote to be held, a greater part of the General Assembly would have to be attended, i.e. 32. The president further wishes to be held at 2 mg. 78th par. The Treaty of the General Assembly says: "A senator is expected to be present and participate in a vote unless he has a legitimate premium or a permit. The President will now begin the vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u122	A respectable president. Here at the Assembly Hall, a vote was held according to the council. Two. 78th par. According to Congress, a senator must be present and participate in a vote unless he has a legitimate premium or a leave permit. A respectable president. This is clear in the Senate. Here we followed with a vote. The members of the government stand were seen here on axle at the Generals' side halls, entering the Senate Hall as soon as a vote is concluded. I'd like to know, sir, if it's not a reason to take this up at a meeting at the Presidency Committee and see what action can be taken when members of the council fail to observe the basic obligation to attend a vote at the council, are in a house, are in the Generalist centres, and do not attend votes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u123	A respectable president. Of course, when more things choose to resort to oppression, all they have to do is follow through on it. Of these rights and conditions. paritaprevir Also referred to by Ásmundur Einar Daðason, in the U.S. Congress, there is an obligation to find a meeting by members of Congress. It must, therefore, be of particular interest that it was so difficult for the board of directors to visit their members in their homes and that so many of them have violated that obligation. I can tell you what. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason said that I have more than once been aware that this law has not been fulfilled either.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u124	Mr. President. I appreciate it when Prime Minister's assistant, okay? paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason, takes the initiative to teach us the manners and the Congress. It is important to have volunteers in those activities. My opinion is that the greater part can stand for its own violence. When action on Congress and complete disregarding the legitimate and well - prepared demands of a number of members of Congress is carried out, not only from government positions but also partly from the greater part of it, as has been done here under the circumstances. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son calls for an unusual reaction. It's just that way. Something else has happened. So I have a good conscience for allowing most of myself to be responsible for my violence in the council. It's enough to have a share, and I don't think it's gonna do anything. Senators in charge, like hell. The members of the board, who always disappear from the council hall as if nothing has happened, and thus do not carry out their duties, do so occasionally.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u125	V.E.G. President. I think it must be interesting for the many people who normally monitor the activities of the Generals to witness that the government's opposition is as contemptuous as she did earlier by ignoring a lengthy fee. [[Directors...]] I think there must be something for many to consider that monitors Congress on the path of the government. In short, after my short session, I'm going to say, "I'm embarrassed, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u126	A respectable president. At best, this is an unusual event and before it does. The members of the council make a very large statement, or I kindly ask them to remember that there will be a day after this day and that all that has been done will be judged. We need to decide how we want these things. I think the government situation at any given time can give full evidence of that fact, making it possible to say something that is contrary to it. There's a lot to say that if we want to, at least, at least... in the next future, that just the more part votes on issues like this, of course, it'll be that way. It says itself, but I encourage people to think that through. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u127	Mr. President. It is proper to keep the way these things were done. There is chaos in the Senate because of the progress of a greater part of the employment committee under the front of the council. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son. A meeting was interrupted that was so advanced and extended in an effort to settle matters. It was hoped that there would be a change in the matter of the matter, but the announcement is immediately made that the solution to the problem is being made at night meetings and that a vote would be almost without notice of what no one expected and was not expected in the council's organization on this day. Some pity is taking the right to cope in an unconventional manner. Something else has happened. This is the harvest. This is what it is. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, all of it, and be good to you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u128	V.E.G. President. A very peculiar position has come up, a man sitting in the side halls instead of entering the hall and voting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u129	Their legal duties.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u130	Simply put, the senator was voting. [[The Claus of the Assembly Hall.]] [[Foreground on: No.]] [[Up front.]] We all know that. Councilmen, that members of Congress do not do their jobs exclusively to the bench in the chamber. Of course, the senators are meeting all over town, senators are doing other jobs, and when there is a brief notice, they have already taken time to get into the room. But sitting in the side room, ignoring its duty to step in and votes are quite different. I'm asking the government to think a little bit of about it. Why does it not rather discuss the matter itself objectively rather than being involved in some business affairs and trying to be a part of it with some sort of snout and talk about the President's conference board? Mr. President. That caught my attention. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon commended him. þm. It's Ásmundur, Einar only one, Daldason... who's got a problem with us. [[The president calls.]] But he wasn't at all, he simply read up to us from council creations, and I think he was. paritaprevir The Steingrímur J. Sigfússon would benefit from reading this article.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u131	V.E.G. President. I think there's a little bit of a park left over there. paritaprevir Brá Konráðsdóttir calling a men's room on the lower side room of the Allalgis. I was there during this vote.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u132	I wasn't talking about you personally.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u133	No, they were talking about those who could not vote. There may be different explanations, such as why. A senator said why they don't show up. First of all, the issue is why there is debate over matters that should be settled. It's their responsibility, and I'm gonna pray. paritaprevir Brá Konráðsdóttir Consecretsdóttir to remember it in the morning. If power is to be used, it must be necessary to call for war during this council. Nobody's asking to go anywhere. We're asking for solutions, and they've already been proposed. I will give a talk at 2nd. Obviously, it's time for us to finish speaking, so we can't talk about it. That is not even a statement of why. The head of the trade board is to discuss this with an environment and transport committee, not a word of it. [[The president calls.]] If you're gonna drive the council this way, you're gonna get the fight. Sadly, that is what is happening and is sad.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u134	A respectable president. I'm sorry I didn't get here in time for this vote, but that's what happens. [[Up front.]] I don't think I've ever seen anything like it, to what? Those who have not been seen here all day should come up weeping over being called out to vote. That's what's happening here. [[Up front.]] People are complaining about being called into a churchhouse to care for their work, the government sector here. It's just what's going on. I hope that the same ones who are calling for a more objective discussion here on the subject on the program will be in the hall and discuss with us objectively or at least listen to what is going to be said on the subject. The fact is, we are in a hurry to extend an act of reconciliation. We've even played out solutions. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of the professional trade committee, is now trying to make some of his own decisions. Why is this fight taken by men, causing trouble in the hall, because of things that we can well sit down and solve? [[The president calls.]] It's because it's about one man's pride, and at the council, about one man's pride?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u135	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Brásdótir's Konráðsdóttir for details of the terms of engagement that have to be required to attend a meeting. That's what happened. paritaprevir Unnur Brá's Konráðsdóttir did not win, and it says something about the senator that she would then join the platform and talk about the duties of other members of Congress. What was embarrassing was the fact that when the majority of the council decided to resort to violence, the President of Generalis had to sit under the rule that only 15 of the 38 members of the government respected the terms of Congress that they should attend a meeting except legal premeditated. Only one of the missing 23 had reported a fatal outcome. The 22 had failed to recognize the General Assembly, and it was difficult that the General President once had to cancel a vote because his own members had not been forced to attend a council meeting. It was even more embarrassing when the highest. For the second time, the president of the Generals had to cancel a vote or the next time, had to have done so if they had not wanted to do so. þm. Brother Unnur Brá's daughter was finally able to care for her duties and attend a meeting. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u136	A respectable president. You may be able to speak up in all kinds of situations, but I just draw attention to it. It is that when she disagrees with her - she is often at any given time, I've been on both sides of the board, and I can go over it for a long time and short, that we weren't particularly happy with the last part.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u137	What did you do then?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u138	[[Take it up to the bottom of the road.]] What men are saying just so they have it all out there is that in the circumstances these people are going to run out. With all due respect for what's happened. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's beloved senator is not the source of authority. If he's changed all his contracts at the council, it's a political superman, huh? þm. Jón Gunnarsson. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u139	A respectable president. I think it's nice to remind us regularly of what we're doing here and why we're here right now. Why is that? This is because industrial and commercial prime minister's bill of electrical and system systems was kicked out of place and put in the Senate in an unsatisfactory and incomplete discussion. We're in the smaller part and we're in it. The Environment and Transport Committee has repeatedly made peace over the two days that have soon been taken into consideration. There is no one who wants to talk to us about the physical issues that exist, there is no interest in them - and then what happens? Then you can think of driving the case for an evening, so you cry out so hard about having to be responsible for your own plans and not being able to make your own decisions. [[Who's whining?]] [[The president calls.]] Why don't we just stop where this government department has been running this case, i.e. absolutely in the ditch?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u140	V.E.G. President. The senators in this room are happy to say that I've been here ever since I got to work this morning. Just like what? paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason came in and said in the Senate: A senator must be present and participate in a vote unless he has a legitimate premeditation or a travel permit. I have no doubt that the legitimate advantages that those non-contracted members at the moment the vote was due to other activities related to Congress, such as the members of the council in this room should know. It is not unusual to call voters, but this is not where members of Congress came from when a vote called, so the question is: Who is doing their jobs, and who did not respect a Senate job at the highest rate? The President called for a vote? Why not take the discussion they claim to have prepared so well at a length of meetings below?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u141	V.E.G. President. This presentation has outstanding features. I don't know that any executives that have come up have been crying or complaining about being at the council to vote. It's simply wrong. Also, I reject those words from the beginning. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir's daughter, who did not agree to take this matter out of the committee, something like that, and it was unappreciative. Under that committee view, one of the other agents from the government side, another member of the board was absent, and I don't fully understand the procedure. [[Up front.]] Why don't we just continue with the council program and stay at the council until the evening? You can then express yourself in this regard, as you clearly want to do and finish this discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u142	Mr. President. It's kind of brutal to hear some senators come up here critical of the government opposition, and they don't look at the fact that they've got this case tied up in a big pile of their own people. It's not about this vote or from now on. It's about us being faced with a case that could be resolved if any one would want it and some Witness with reason. It is impossible for humans to act as if they never came to the point where humans were not on a vote. There are members of Congress who should well remember from the last term, which was then in charge of such matters. It's not like it's never happened before. General. I present myself as vice president of the professional trade committee to address this issue now. Chairman of the Professional Road Committee and seek reconciliation with the views that are there on the board and on the environment and transport committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u143	A respectable president. I've been here this morning, and I've heard the discussion today. I also listened to a discussion that day on this subject, and I always enjoy listening to talks. ... anti-enemies,what. paritaprevir Acoustics, Skarphéðinsson's son. paritaprevir Svandís Svavarsdóttir, and not least why. paritaprevir Steingrímur Sigfússon Sigfurfursson, who has done much in this matter. I wasn't whining about anything. I simply pointed to the fact that earlier, the government led an issue and failed to carry out legal duties laid down in the Senate, where it is specifically required that a man be taken to action. I am glad, however, that the council has agreed to an evening meeting because I look forward to continuing to listen to their talks. Senators who are going to make their point in this matter, hoping that this case could soon pass through 2nd. ... andbacktowhat. The job committee, where it is possible to review the issues that have been included in the discussion, as is expected when discussing matters at the council. But I think it's amazing to listen to the conversation here, and you wonder, of course, who it is over the head that's complaining. [[The president calls.]] At least it wasn't what it says here. That was a simple, brief tip at the outset, and I look forward to hearing more talks in the evening. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u144	A respectable president. Given the interest of what. The members of the board of directors, I assume they'll all be at the discussion until the end of tonight. We will observe that they will stay here and then participate in the discussion. [[Up front.]] I expect that especially. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir, who is now engaged in a discussion of the matter over her head, and then to make comments about the conduct of other senators, share in the discussion. I expect so. She says she doesn't understand the lawsuit. I'm not surprised, I haven't seen anything. While the discussion has taken place, a senator at the Senate Hall. It's a little late to be in the conversation right now. I have compassion for you. A senator has no room or opportunity to think about things, but it will probably be quick if she sits here and participates in the discussion tonight. I'm asking the highest. Mr. President: Is there anything to learn about the conversations and discussions that the president made that might be related to his assessment of the vacancy earlier, that while he made the decision to continue the discussion and to make an evening meeting, people might approach one another in a side room? [[The president calls.]] Is there any news of reconciliation in this matter?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u145	A respectable president. Because members of the government group said that they did not fully understand what was involved, it is all right to point out that it is correct that the greater part of the work programme was considered, but it also came up with a review of a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee on this matter, and it includes certain points on this matter. It actually says: ▪ The more part pays attention to the above points and believes that more emphasis must be placed on all parties and that the discussion takes place earlier in the process... This review was not taken into consideration, and that's what it's all about, i.e. that we are asking for more consultation and more of the environment and transport committees and for these publications at the same time. Councilmen Höskuldur Þórhallsson, Haraldur Einarsson, Birgir the son of Ármannsson, and Árnason Arnam, along with Jón Þór Ólafsson. This is all they ask for, i.e. that they stop only at the speed of these things, go through what is said here, where the fine is warned against various concerns, and try to find some occurrences in the case. This I will give information to those who have not been there for the discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u146	V.E.G. President. There are debates over what aspects of the General Assembly should be followed, of course, by law that we are to follow. Does that mean you should attend a council meeting? Yeah. Should we go to votes? Yeah. But there is also a provision that has been read here before, Article 4. 23rd c. which states that it should print up the reviews of committees commissioned to give reviews along with the committee's opinion. There has been a paradox in this case, one of the causes of conflict. They ask for a review from the Environment and Transport Committee, then they come up with an opinion to the job board and this is not until the less part of the work programme takes up the information from both parties, more and less parts of the Environment and Transport Committee they present. We need to be much more careful, so this matter is now being discussed. It's been a real problem with the project, and when people take sides like that and say: "Yes, yes, let's just roll over everyone with this, we'll react. [[The president calls.]] I call attention to the acting director of the environment and transport committee, why. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir, has spoken here many times. She's in the house to sit down with the rest. The head of the professional trade committee to try to solve this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u147	Mr. President. This situation has begun to remind us of a well - known battle that was fought on the banks of the Rangers, and it is reported in Njála, although I would like to respect the society that is not here to recall the statement made by Njálna's author of the battle. Senators also know that I don't care much more than I get to share with them terms, especially time. It certainly seasones my existence to be here with that night and night, so I'm not in the middle of something. The majority of the speeches, and he's taken the lead in wanting to have a night meeting. It's nice, though, but you gotta be smart that when you're down to it, they sometimes resort to unconventional measures. Of course, it's unorthodox at the government stand, and that's why it belongs to the highest level. Presidents and directors have come to the conclusion that we are in great trouble. Here, two talks may not be able to bear the opposition of government. That's why. paritaprevir Gudle Viðr Þórðarson and what. paritaprevir Unnur Brá Konráðsdóttir Konásdoddótttir. On March 27, 2012, they led the Independence Party out in the middle of the night in a vote for the Constitution to thwart it. [[The president calls.]] For this, there is a historical precedent and why. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason is familiar with this story. It's in a book he's read.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u148	Right.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u149	Mr. President. Yeah, it's a little strange that it's like we're in thespread here, but I'm afraid it's gonna look like we're there. Is that what it wants? The president that the situation is such that men are in an eternal battle for who said what, who did what and who did what and what else, and that humans are accusing one another of such things? Is that what it wants? President that this is the way of the case? I hardly think so. That's why it's quite in his hands to intervene. Some of them what? Councilmen are more armed than others, and they must take what they have to use to represent the criticism involved. It is just as governments may be aware that this case has been handled with extreme criticism, not just by the wicked left men and the environment that are toxic in their bones, but from the Union of Icelandic rural society, which must be transverse and should be taken seriously. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u150	President. I think it's very important that the government as well as the president recognize the seriousness of the situation. It is a very bad situation that calls for drastic action, for one man cannot take the council in for a hostage. I don't understand a job like this. I have no problem being here tonight and any night, and I've never held back from working. But setting up a meeting because of the guise of one person is not available. These are not acceptable practices, and I must protest them with all my heart. It is not the administrative situation that sets up the council, that is, the major part, and the head of the employment committee. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u151	A respectable president. The management situation has called just since the case was scheduled on Tuesday, and it was clear how the compromise was all mixed up on the job committee, allowing a different subject on the agenda, while the committee reviews the environmental and transport committees, and then back up the discussion. That's not listening. How's the top line? The president begs the government for reconciliation? He answers by asking for an evening meeting. I'm asking the highest. The president, how's this going, and if there's any political tradition, some conflict tradition that humans can't break out, can't take some new step to change things around here? I thought that was exactly what it was. The president wanted to do it when he accepted this job, to compromise the conflicts. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u152	President. Indeed, it is vital that we keep the right hand of reconciliation to the finish. I feel very sad about it. Harðardóttir The success we've achieved at the council in attempting to have the conflict, which has least repeatedly been broken down by the presidents, not just one but two committees. I think it's a very lame thing to do before the council. I hope this doesn't make the tone for the next two years at the Council. We're on a path that makes it very difficult to turn back at some point. Therefore, before it's too late, I challenge a respectable president to cut this knot.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u153	V.E.G. President. I must admit that I was surprised last night when I saw that this case, a bill to correct the conversion of electricity laws, no. 65/2003, with subsequent adjustments, a system plan, would be on the program for the council today. I actually thought that after Tuesday's discussion, it was so obvious that there was nothing more in the situation than to bring the matter back to the committee for further work and to interrupt the discussion. I thought that since the conversation was not simply interrupted when it was just started, we would use the natural interval, so to speak, which occurred during the meeting at the end of a meeting before midnight on Tuesday night and that this would not be done again until the committee had discussed it. Of course, the matter should have been taken, so to speak right back into the committee and to process the available comments and work with difficulty. The Environment and Transport Committee for improvement on the bill, as reported in their members' committee. I have to say that after today and the discussion about the President's conference board at times that had to be done, I don't understand that we're going to continue our discussion and that we're even going to run the case into an evening meeting. I'm just hoping that those executives who put such emphasis on the fact that we will continue to discuss this matter in the evening, be here, and participate in the discussion. What makes the matter to me, even more surprising, is what happens. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, in his speech as president of the day, came up here. A professional committee where he was put on the rosary for those who were already there. He said that he thought it was very urgent, but he also said that it would be necessary to do so and that he was eager to start working on it and took into account some of the comments that have been made. That's why I still don't understand why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson doesn't just cut the knot and ask that the discussion be interrupted, taking the case to the committee, and taking care of it, as I understood that he has to. Sadly, though, the matter does not appear to be to be the case. So we continue our discussion. In fact, we've only been slanting and continuing our discussion since Tuesday night. I find it important at this point to recall only these conversations, since we are about 1st. The point was made by Elín Ragnheiður, the highest of all. Industrial and business minister, that she thought this case could fit in on more than one committee of the council and that it would probably be a good idea. The job committee sent the case to what? Environment and Transport Committee for review. V.E.G. At the same time, a minister said that the matter was not intended to be covered through the council. The discussion at this point, at 1. Around the year, there was nothing extremely long and perhaps not a reason, but it is now coming to the day that it seems that this matter was indeed to be handled through the council by making us continue to talk to the 2nd issue. magazines for highly deformed cases rather than forcible reasons. The head of the professional road committee just sees fit to cut the knot and take the case to himself. Now it's 2nd. about this fine thing, which I think we all agree that is just pretty important to finish out in as good a deal as possible, at the very least the treatment options in it are pretty clear, i.e. a bill to correct the conversion of electrical law. 2nd. started with an authority on the case, w. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, gave the opinion of a greater part of each. Business committee. A senator like me, who doesn't have a seat at rest. Work committee or what. An environmental and transport committee, could easily have understood from the background that no dramatic comments were made in the bill reviews. In fact, it is the same as can be read from a committee list of things that came from the greater part of the brain. Business committee. However, another day would come during the discussion. This was shown in a discussion on Tuesday, to the point. The job committee sent the case to what? Environmental and Transport Committees for review, such as the Supreme Court. Industrial and commercial minister said it was easy to do. The strange practices were so in force that the case was taken from a work committee before the information received from an environmental and transport committee. V.E.G. President. So I have to agree with them anyway. Councilmen who have wondered about these tactics and have pondered questions about the work programme at the council. I feel alone that if one of the members of the Senate calls on a different committee after reviewing another committee, and, as the examples prove, even in the last few weeks, more than one committee may be able to fit matters in, they must have some weight. It does not come to my mind that members of the Parliament refer matters to others in order to use it to suggest them up and keep them good, as well. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir's daughter put it so well. There's a little something I get to feel like being done, so here's just some kind of sham or virtual cooperation with committees. I find this to be very strange and just not an acceptable method, and this does not show much respect for the work hours of our senators. So I return to the majority of the employment committee's party, which may be a major material matter we're supposed to be discussing here. I've been through the controversies of the situation and how strange the discussion is over, that's one point. But it is also the subject of the matter that needs to be discussed, and it is also related to the practices. The majority of them are down. The employment committee is not mentioned at all. The Environment and Transport Committee, including the review of the committee, was completed prior to the review. However, this is so true of members of the committee's section from memory. Work committee, as a matter of course. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir signing, is all over the news. The Environment and Transport Committee may be published and may be said to shed a whole new light on the matter in a material way, but as noted in the discussion on this subject on the past Tuesday and became already on the main topic of discussion, the members of the Committee are very little discussed in most of that topic. Business committees about the material reviews that were available on the subject. However, they will be 32 plus the above reports. Environmental and Transport Committee, I thought it was yesterday, 32 of them are very rich. I, who are not members of the committee, have not been able to study all of them at random and in great running, as these are about 200 pages, like some dog. A senator pointed out during the discussion. Of course, I must rely on the committee and on the work that has been carried out on the Committee when it comes to taking a stand on the matter. It must be what is the purpose of the professional committees, that there is some movement, and that we who are not present in these committees can study the matter in committees, using them to support us in taking sides. Hence, it is so important that the committees are well carried out and that you can trust that it is. It is also of utmost importance to cover up the matter. The Environment and Transport Committee was published with the Committee's committee of my work committee, and I know my share of the Committee's best thanks for having done so. Now that I've done all the background, I come to the material issues, i.e. The comments on the bill and the points that point out the need for a better course. In the bill itself, i.e. The bill to correct the conversion of electrical law on the state of the system plans to the rural organization, says, by permission of the President: The European Commission shall proceed with the next review of the main structure, and no later than four years from the agreed system plan, to coordinate strategy for projects in the established 10-year strategy. In addition, rural management should ensure that organizational matters do not interfere with the implementation of the three-year System Action Programme. In accordance with a system plan, a narrow transport line should be determined in order to obtain the proposal of the transporter, to have its consultation and its planning authority. This may be where we find the material point, i.e. what we need to look at here. I think it's from a smaller part of the dog. The employment committee is pointed out that the less part feels that in the bill there is a lack of security over the planning of rural society and that environmental considerations are taken into account. But in a committee party from a smaller part of her history. By permission of a president, the employment committee, in effect the answer to this article in the law itself: A plan is set up very high, and it is actually overreached. The transport company has a large power given to the bill, which is very special in a private partner. A system plan is not expected to be discussed with the Council, such as the transport programme and a national protection and use programme. The minority feels strongly that the public's viewpoint will be reached before rural society is obliged to place transportation initiatives on its organization. I have to agree with those words and the concerns they present. First, I'd like to talk only about what leads to planning. The time will come when you read a review from a greater part of your history. Environmental and Transport Committee, which is said to be a minor aluminium accessory. The employment committee, that according to the system plan and the factors related to the self - control rights and the organizational activities of rural society, has made extensive comments. In other words, it is not until you have read through all the material it presents. I find it very strange to have to dive through it all along the way in order to find out what the problem is and what it is really that reporters criticize in this case. Then there are the environmental issues, but it is noted that they are not properly controlled or taken into account. Both more things and smaller things a bit. The environment and transport committees discuss that on the basis of a unit 3.m. Count 9. In the bill, with the permission of the President, a system plan for ten years: ▪... based on practical scenarios for the development of electricity production, electricity use, market development and electricity transport to other countries, as appropriate and that the system plan should explain the criteria, scenarios and projections. So that's what everybody's got. The environment and transport committees say that there is a need to examine and, as well as a smaller part of the environment and transport committee, it is clear that this is staging all products of innovation and waiting classes into what we are going to take into account when planning the electricity we have for the future. As I have gone through here, you can find rich material comments that you read or dig through in the opinion of my committee. Business committee. They're so rich, there's so much to change, and I feel that more things are happening anyway. The employment committee should have a proper view of calling the matter to them immediately and finishing the job so that we can continue our discussion in a reasonable way. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u154	President. Thank you for your good speech. I'd like to ask the senator if she believes that this case might have been better established in the trade committee, which was originally requested but then considered to be ignored, i.e. Yeah. Environment Committee. I'd also like to ask the senator how she feels about the fact that so many cases of rightfully being on the Environment Committee have been put on the job committee, if it undermines the credibility of the Committee, if they don't get the legal issues under the committee, whatever. A senator feels that way. What I'm so worried about and have been characteristic of in this terms, I was now on the Environment Committee during the last term, and that's a whole different experience of how things are being done right now than then. I experience the coldness of the environment, and I find it a very strange development in view of the fact that the environment is not necessarily to be heard underneath the left green or left groups or something, but it's a subject that affects everyone, whether they agree with politics on the right or left or in the middle. I wanted to ask you what. A senator, like me, feels that it is very difficult and that there is even considerable deterioration when it comes to respect for environmental issues.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u155	V.E.G. President. Thank you for the questions that are directly addressed to me. Yeah, I'd kind of like to agree that I also experience it so that the environment is cold, they don't get very important. We now find that the situation is just right to the point. The pro committee, and so is what. The Environment and Transport Committee provided to give an opinion, but nothing is done about it. Hv. A senator also asked if I thought it had been better with another professional committee, i.e. Environmental and Transport Committee. I'm not necessarily sure of that, at least. This is a matter that I believe to be part of both committees, and therefore I find it so painful that some organization cannot be established as to how cooperation or cooperation is being conducted, or how to take credit from different committees when their media overlaps in this way, since society is not a separate box that is never met. Society is much more flowing and alive. I think that somehow we need to get into our work here to take into account that in order to manage one community, we need to consider so many factors, so we have to be some procedures on how we work things out when they have more than one committee at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u156	President. I remember at the beginning of the last term, and I thought it was a bit remarkable, I was naturally completely new at the council, and I didn't know what had been before, that the then environmental minister stressed that a good partnership would be between the Environment Committee and the Employment Committee and the Advisor, saying that both ministers of these seminars would exert themselves, not in separate boxes, but in a good flow between. I've felt that someone was seriously going back now, and I'm not saying that because I'm trying to find a place of impact or something like that on the present government. But I thought it a bit remarkable, considering that during World War II, the advance party would like to be viewed as a beautiful green class and that he cares about our country, but for almost two years since the government was elected, the government was not appointed to be the minister of the environment. Of course, it would be useful if the current environmental minister were to use a little more of his own language. You have a feeling that the environment has become some sort of elbow child when the debate has become increasingly evident that our main solutions are being used in increasing industry. I'm concerned with this much, and it's kind of hard to believe that we are now discussing these matters in a conflict rather than that the more part and the head of the employment committee are taking over the right hand of the Environment Committee to solve the problems of power between committees, which is absolutely incredible that some power war is cooperating at the World Council to do a proper law. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u157	V.E.G. President. Yes, I think it's perfectly clear that the environment needs a stronger warning. It's in my opinion that the environment has proverbs that really come into play, and you believe and feel that he cares about them. I'm sorry, I haven't seen our new ultimate yet. One environmental minister recently speaks, making me agglow with her. Of course, it takes more than those who either have the highest office. Minister of the environment, or sit at ease. The Environment and Transport Committee to be concerned about the environment because the environment is one of our most urgent and important issues at the same time, I think, and, of course, they have to reach all committees. Sadly, I have felt that more things were wrong. Business committees, perhaps especially why. The director of the committee, if he does not make the environmental point his, listen to others at least and show some modesty in taking to himself the information being received, as it were. Environmental and Transport Committee. He may not be responsible alone. I think his entire body should be more concerned with these matters and put pressure on the edge. þm. Jón Gunnarsson is showing modesty there and taking more attention to the environment. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u158	Mr. President. The story of this case is quite remarkable when you look it through your strays to this day. The 1st. only spoke with two senators. I didn't realize how deep it really is. And gradually as the conversation has slid, I have come to realize that it can have very serious consequences, possibly good, but it takes a lot to fix, but it can lead to very bad things. That's why a lot of consultation is needed. I agree with that. That's what a senator does. On the other hand, because of the way the discussion has passed, also on my part, I would like to say that at the same time. paritaprevir However, Jón Gunnarsson has his shirt to take on the pits, you must not forget that as soon as you're arguing with him, I have to say as a contemporaneous man that, of course, you can't help saying that the singles of the scraps have been, on the part of the bill. Chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee, who did not take this case until January. And about this important matter, just holding two meetings about it in that committee, I don't like it. By the way, I thought it was a problem. A senator who spoke earlier would take care of the central issue and the most important article. What's dangerous about it, as it is prepared today, is how much power it brings to the shipping company. Today, however, it is this way that the local community is governed by elected representatives, while the bill in effect gives the shipping company the authority to order a community to change its strategy to conform it to a system plan. Who makes it? It's not elected agents, it's just the shipping company. And there are practical advantages, such as those found there. I find it difficult to call it practical. However, I thought that the director of a professional professional committee in his talk, which proved to be a very controversial talk here today, had developed two ideas that the changes that make it considerably different, i.e. First, create a realistic lawsuit and second, that there will be a strategy for a discussion at the council. [[The president calls.]] What does it say? A senator about them?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u159	V.E.G. President. Only because of work at night. The Environment and Transport Committee, at some point earlier, showed that the meetings were more than two on the matter, but no more approved conferences have been accessed, just to be maintained. I didn't have that meeting, but it was right here in the discussion. I agree that there's been a lot of power being given to the shipping company and, yes, I thought a lot of good things actually came out in speech at the time. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son today. He seemed to agree that the matter would need to be adjusted. What I was disappointed with was that he did not want to take the matter to himself immediately and postpone the discussion now and work on that change right away. It's the word, I think, for whatever it is that needs to be done, and it can be read by references and comments if you dive deeply, as well as by what you have discussed in the discussion. Regarding the authority of the vehicles, I feel a little nervous about the fact that in the majority of them, there's a problem. In fact, a professional station committee - it says that discussing the matter has shown that the process of planning and implementation is very busy and complex. And that much of the part thinks it is important to consider that a stream of simplicity is involved, yet the bill has taken a step. I feel somehow that this is a direct conversation in opposition to limiting the power of transport companies and bringing them closer to the public, so I don't exactly know how to interpret it. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u160	Mr. President. My interpretation of the swaddling as well as any. A senator referred to it earlier - of course, but I did not sit in contact with the committee - that there might be a reference to the fact that the final disagreement would be directed to the courts. At least I think it's worth one Mass to find out if it should be. But there is a possibility that such a matter would be extremely delayed for a very long time. It's my opinion, it may not be the barbed about this, but when I read it a specific set of rules, I stuck it to my leg. The big problem in this is that because of the magnitude of the case that is likely to affect a large number of people, the transfer of people from elected representatives to a successful government. But no matter how fine the Landsnet is, and I really love that company, I think it's a full power supply to give the company, saying an open check to say something that it defines, and that alone, as a practical system plan that may be involved in the crisis of many rural society. I take an example: A transport company is suddenly confronted with a lot of energy, perhaps in the North, and wants to bring it south, but it's more natural in opposition to locals as we know it is, but how will it do so? By crossing the highlands. And there may well be a number of rural society who oppose it. Now the highlands are divided into rural areas, and even some communities may be able to resist. Then the bill simply, as it comes from its Creator today, says that within four years the rural communities have to change their organization. It is a perfect act of authority from elected representatives to rural society. [[The president calls.]] It's the worst part, I think.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u161	V.E.G. President. I want this second answer, in fact, to come up to say the same thing. paritaprevir Snooper Össur's Skarphéðinsson and reiterate what I said in my speech, I count and agree that all too much power is being taken to the shipping company, the private part of the Landsnet. And the public's viewpoint is being developed, even through the rural communities, i.e. that's guaranteed. That's one of the things that needs to be changed into the bill so that I think it's the way it is done that we can accept it from here on the World Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u162	A respectable president. To be honest, I'm surprised that the president set up the case we're discussing back on schedule. A professional health committee has held a meeting and considered it better. During Tuesday's discussions, there were very strong criticism of the history of the matter on committees and on some aspects of the bill, and criticism has also been observed in the debates today. In the beginning of my speech, I would like to give some basic evidence that the president should have applied himself to it and should have promoted the case to the contrary. The job committee before discussing this and before making a vote at 2 Timothy 3: 1. ...by,it's 2nd. The main debate of the council. It is important that the matter is settled in such a way that it is not simply violated by members of the council, I allow myself to say, by putting the matter down in 2rd. that it is not really possible to take sides when it comes to paying a vote. I'd like to mention the regulations of Congress, which say in 23rd. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ The Council can direct the panels laid down and the committee needs to be considered. It can be referred to at each stage of the committee. If this is done before the discussion is complete, then it should be postponed. The law is clear on the fact that the council can delay the case and refer it back to the committee. The article later says: ▪ When discussing a judicial matter referred to in committees, she can consult the comments of other fixed committees, either on the whole or on certain aspects of the matter. At the same time, the committee can arrange a deadline made by other committees or committees to give their report. The reviews of other committees with the Committee's Committee on the matter will be printed. This law of Congress was not fulfilled. It was requested a review of why. The Environment and Transport Committee, but the review of this committee was not printed with the opinion of more than that. Business committee. In case of a moment. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir wouldn't have left with the Commission's review of the environment and transport committee as part of my members of the Committee would have had it. senators who do not make the committee appear to be deemed unrecognized. That would have been a clear violation of the council. In view of the greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee, serious comments are made to the bill, and a smaller proportion of the Committee agree with them, so it can be said that at the time. The Environmental and Transport Committee is a transverse agreement that this matter needs to be done much better. In the opinion of the greater part of the arraignment. The environment and transport committees say that significant changes in the bill need to be made and the memory of the element agrees. In the opinion of more part of the environment and transport committee, the President's permission states: To the extent that consultation with the public and stakeholders has been added to the major public programmes and issues, rather than to one - sided decision - making, as the bill seems to be based. This is where the assigned object speaks anyway. The members of the Independence Party and the Superintendent, very clear. But this review has not been discussed. A job committee, and that's not acceptable. I will review further the comments of the Environment and Transport Committee on the matter later in my speech and repeat that the employment committee has not studied and responded to the comments made by the Commission, which she wished to give a comment on the matter, but there is ample reason to return the case to the Committee before continuing. During Tuesday evening, it was a difficult issue for the head of the trade board on the environment and transport committee, and it was proposed to have received from it, as was the case at the beginning of today's discussion. Such conflicts and accusations between members of the council have not been seen before, and that must be the greatest concern. The President of the Parliament. There is truly reason to be exalted. The president calls the committee leaders to make peace. I think the head of the pro board, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has shown great disrespect to the Environment and Transport Committee when he spoke to the committee. Others can judge this by listening to the comments on the General Assembly, but the words passed on to the President's conference board on Tuesday evening as well as at the beginning of the discussion today. One of the terms may be that a professional health - care committee can apply environmental and transport commissions for discussion before further discussion is carried out. Hv. Hence, members of Parliament now consider the outcome of the matter in a vote after 2nd. Five o'clock. Directors sign the majority of the Environment and Transport Committees. Could it be that more people from the top of the board agree with them, perhaps two more? Come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on, come on. The members of the administrative body do not need to vote for the matter. V.E.G. Minister who recommended the case, the highest. Industrial and commercial ministers must be worried about this. She said just about the case with 1st. in answer to what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, by permission of President: ▪ Just to reiterate your bill's primary objective: I'm not going to work through one thing or another, so I'm going to use wording at the same time. Rather, as advocates of this bill, it is our sincere desire to try to bring these matters into line with these views. You need to build up here in the transport system. The electricity system in the country needs to be strengthened. It is impossible to have the situation as it has been for decades to cause each one to act in a vicious, quarreling manner. We need to agree on the rules of the film so that we can take as many views as possible. A respectable president. That's the word for word. Industrial and commercial minister told the 1st. The point. Love to the highest. A minister on the matter is obvious, but he's willing to make more of it. It seems, however, that there is no job committee. V.E.G. President. I think I've reasoned that there's a good reason to call the matter back into what. The job committee for further work and others have done so, both on Tuesday and on the eve of the day. I'm surprised that they don't want the government to take the case for reconciliation, to postpone the case for a while while the employment committee reviews the matter better and may consult an environmental and transport committee. A respectable president. I will take advantage of the time I have left of this talk period to review most of the criticism. Environment and Transport Committee, Land Protection, The Union of Icelandic rural society and Akureyritown, but their strong agreements on the issues most critical of the situation and the factors that I feel I have to work on especially before the bill goes into effect. I feel violated by members of Congress, a respectable president, to expect us to vote for a case so neglected and so clearly criticized. The review of a greater part of the Environment and Transport Committee tells us that in the environment of this committee, environmental, organizational, and construction issues, transport, regional, and sectoral issues, as well as the development of activities, and the state. Then the committee spoke out of their roles. That is exactly how the most important topics have been discussed are discussed in this area. The review continues: ◯ In these terms of the bill, there is a big opinion that is involved in the self - control rights and the organizational duties of the rural society, which the managers have made quite a comment. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: It's the same thing as 2 st. c The bill shall be agreed by rural organisations to coordinate their strategy within four years of the agreed system strategy, rural society should ensure that organizational matters will not interfere with the implementation of projects in the established 3-year strategy and rural society will not be allowed to deviate from the transport company proposal if this results in the failure of the transport company to meet its duties according to a system plan. This suggests that the transport company is placed in a higher position against rural and other stakeholders, e.g. Landowners, and will be able to manipulate rural areas to change their strategy in accordance with the agreed strategy within a relatively short period of time. A case treatment is not expected to result in an agreement when there is a conflict between parties and in this regard it can be noted that such an unprovable must be done to rural society to coordinate their strategy for transport, which is adopted as the decision of the General Assembly, on the other hand, a plan is set and implemented by a administrative agency without direct access to democratic elected representatives. Nor is it in any way that the transportation company needs to take into account the development of rural communities as reflected in their main organization, but it is essential that electrical lines do not interfere with the development of rural communities in a natural way. The majority of the items pay attention to the above points and feel that more emphasis must be placed on the discussion of all parties and that the discussion takes place earlier in the process so that a line fixation can be settled. A greater proportion of the environment and transport committees also report: ▪ In the bill for changes in road laws, the communication duties of Vega and rural society are increased by the fact that the road design should be assessed when assessing traffic security for different costs of road construction in time so that a planning committee can take a stand on the evaluation in the shape of the main structure tools. [...] Based on the Commission's opinion, this implementation in the bill could be considered to be a law on the change in electricity law, while the above is the conclusion of the consultation between the roadtype, the Association and the Union of Icelandic rural society, and to make sure that there is real consultation where one party does not have a superior position with others. A respectable president. Now, I'm not going to take a particular position on the proposal of a greater part of the Committee, but I feel that there is a need to consider how this can be handled and how to change the bill so that it can be settled. Then there is also a matter of opinion regarding the decision of the Power Agency on the agreed strategy and whether it is then approved to the Commission of Environment and Resources, the Department of Energy Decisions or Ministers. The Committee also criticizes the idea of using a frame plan to build long-term programmes on: In this regard, the Commission points out that a system schedule of 10 years and a series of activation options into a generation of protection and energy efficiency schemes does not automatically attack activation of these activation options. The activation options set into waiting classes are even more remote. For this reason, it will be reasonable to base on these points in a practical program. Then comes a monstrosity where the committee says what I said earlier, that this bill has to make a big change before it can be taken care of. Under the opinion of more part of the Environment and Transport Committee, Höskuldur Þórhallsson writes why. Chairman of the committee, and why. Councilmen Einarsson, Ármannsson, Jón Þór Ólafsson, and Vilhjálmur Árnason Hv. Senators Birgir Ármannsson and Vilhjálmur Árnason have their opinion on it in advance, but they still sign it. I don't know why. Senators are expected to sign in advance, but I expect them to come in public. I can see why. paritaprevir Will Árnason is in the audience, and I assume he'll come and discuss his warning if he hasn't already done so. A respectable president. I see that time goes by fast, but luckily, I can come back for a talk later today. It seems to me that I can't get over everything I'd like to talk about, because there are some very important narratives and details that come from Land Protection, for example. National Protection makes serious comments to the bill, stating that the changes would, among other things, legally establish that activation of innovation and the waiting category of the framework can be used as core users for the scheme and implementation of electrical transport systems, i.e. in the system schedule. National Protection thinks this is entirely unrealistic, and it does not agree with frame rules which clearly explain that although the priming concept enters a novelty class, much less a waiting category, it does not mean that it will be automatically activated. After all, a dignified president, a frame plan does not predict the fortresses, but depends on demand, depending on whether it is practical to activate, or by financial sensitivity of activation, environmental impact, etc. There are so many things to look at, and very strange if you really think about using a frame plan, and I don't talk about the prime option of a waiting frame program, which is a basis for a plan to go to 10 years. It's all out of the map and more of it. The Environment and Transport Committee agrees with National Protection in this regard. It also says: In the bill, license companies are overly simplified and greatly reduced the decision and organizational authority of rural society. Increased decision-making authority of the transport company (Landsnets) over their own projects would be unacceptable. An energy agency would be assigned a check that the Agency cannot deal with the current legal environment. In whole, the bill would remove from the environment in the country, as well as be vaguely subjugated by the legal rights of environmental organizations due to the decision of individual implementations in the transport system. All doubles should be taken into account in accordance with Iceland's validation of the Aggressary Convention. There are other points in the review of the Land Protector that I would like to come in on and will do in my second talks on the matter. At the same time, I have the opportunity to talk about the history of the European Union, which is also very clear and clear in my current issues, as both of them have. Environmental and transport committees mention and protect. Everyone talks about the same things, and it's really weird that a professional health committee should not take it in now and correct it so that when it comes to paying a vote, we are actually enabled to take a stand on individual issues. A respectable president. How should we be able to vote after 2nd? when so much change is needed, which is basically good if we were to fix it in this way? Then I don't realize how much more of the environment and transportation committees are going to do. When such a clear criticism is made and a clear signal that the bill has to make a big change, does it have to vote on individual articles? We senators cannot accept this discussion in the 3rd district. It's 2nd. The main issue, therefore, is the need for the matter to be included in the committee and to review the issues mentioned here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u163	A respectable president. Hv. At the end of his talk, there is no way to vote. The employment committee has not yet taken a stand for the indications presented in the review of the year. Environment and Transport Committee, which is not being discussed. Here people have noted that an environment and transportation committee has paid their opinion late, and sometimes I wonder if we're not all working in the same house, what would it take for a man to pick up the phone and ask: Is it not considered on the way? There seems to be almost a wall between these committees. I agree with that. A member of the body of elders on the need that before this material talk is completed, it will be postponed so that a professional committee can take a stand on their opinion. Then I come to what I want to ask you. A senator in particular. There are some criticisms here on this bill. It is about the independence of rural society, the lack of publicity that a system plan is to be received at the council and is a guide to transport, as well as the criteria for the environment that are absent in the bill. What does that count? A senator needs to do so as to create the rest of his life. The head of the professional road committee has spoken for? Is there too much distance between people in the context of environmental and transport reviews and the majority of the sectoral organisations? What does that count? A senator who would improve the situation in order to make more peace with him?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u164	A respectable president. There are ways to make a decision. We've confirmed the Ásar deal. It is our duty to see that, when such a matter is being discussed and to make decisions on matters that require many years of action and that only to a small extent can be taken back, the need for others to make a decision is assured. Then it's local planning. As an ex-communicator, I can imagine that local authorities will rise up and protest if the department's authority is taken away from the countryside in such a cloudless way. The European Union's policy of rural society prior to 2014-2018 specifically speaks of planning and how important it is for rural society. It is not that rural society should rule everything and no one else, but it is now possible that the land's network should now have absolute authority over its societies. It cannot be accepted, and if you can find a flat surface on it, and in fact, such matters are still true. A senator mentioned in the introduction to his inquiry, I think we can land this case. I think they all feel it in here, both of them. Generals, most of them, and the government situation, there's a matter to be handled. The bill cannot be returned in this way, for example, that the authority is taken from the rural communities in this way.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u165	A respectable president. This is so remarkable, in view of the fact that society's independence is emphasized in the current constitution of the country, and it has now been flaunted for less reason in the past in this Assembly Hall. In this way, members of the board of directors feel that it is reasonable to reduce the planning of rural society. As we examine these 200 pages. From reviews, there are reviews from the Union of Icelandic rural society and individual rural communities very much. I'd like to finally ask you what. A senator of these democracies, which I find to be characteristic of the bill from start to finish, not only in the rural population, but also in the access of the Generals to decision-making, because this plan is not intended to be discussed here. Someone here on the first day of our discussion said that it was almost like something that had been written in 1975 and that I feel it. I'd like to ask you what. A senator as to whether there has nearly been a loss of the global development of democracy in this country in terms of general participation in decision making, especially when it's out of the environment. [[The president calls.]] I remind you of the Conspira Treaty in that regard. [[The president calls.]] Counts 'em out. A senator that this bill can simply withstand the Conspira covenant?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u166	A respectable president. No, I don't think that's possible at all. And I think Land Protection is a good deal about it in his reviews why the bill alone can't stand the Conspiracy Treaty and what we've done with that deal. This system plan and all this bill, which is supposed to be to settle disputes, will only cause controversy if it is to dominate the communities and not allow the council to discuss the plan. We'll talk about the transport programme and we'll talk about all kinds of plans and they'll change, etc. But there's something else going on. And yes, Mr President, I can agree that there seems to be an old-fashioned thinking behind us and that we have not taken into account the new approved ones we have attended.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u167	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. Unfortunately, the environment in the bill is not much covered, and environmental considerations are not made very high. It is highly critical of various sources, their comments. Among other things, there is no need for any environmental assessments, such as strategys for other activities, but this strategy is excluded. I want to know what you're doing. A senator will be aware of this, for this system plan and how, under the circumstances of the transport workers, environmentally and far wide measures have been taken. Energy agencies come to agree with the environmental programme, and they have also been criticized that it is not an independent party to be responsible for it. The European Union's third Directive speaks of independent and independent persons. If we introduce it, available and in preparation, there must be an independent party to evaluate a system plan. In this bill, it's the Energy Institute, which is under the minister, and it's hardly classified as an independent party. I'd like to hear some attitude. That's for a senator.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u168	A respectable president. As we have seen during the discussion, it may be a very delicate matter. It has been mentioned here in the discussion: What if it is decided, and the Landsnet decides, to lay lines over the highlands? The communities and environmental groups protest and want to find a way to prevent it, that way is not according to the bill, as I understand it. Now I'm not in trouble. Work and transportation committees and only districts support. A review of the Landsguard does well and speaks of the authority that Landsnet has over the rural community. It cannot be seen how the environmental considerations should be dealt with in this process, how they should be taken into account. Similarly with the Power Institute - Now that's a good institution, isn't it? Wouldn't you have to give the Agency a hell of a hand in order to handle this surveillance job? I want to agree with those who speak in that way. There is a lack of staff, possibly a shortage of professionals, and there has been a lack of professionals in the fields of engineering, economics, and law, as Land Protection points out. Now I'm not saying that Power Institute can't do this role at all. It may well fall, but it needs to be strengthened much better, both financially and legally, as well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u169	President. Only forward with the environment. It has been criticized in reviews that there is no mention or consideration for environmental, tourism, geographic or organizational procedures for the implementation of a system plan. I want to ask you why. A member of the Parliament is working on a national structure prepared by the Organization. The way we plan our highlands and our international organization is very important; I ask if. A senator does not believe that a national structure should be implemented, that these parties need to talk together, and that there are ways in which a national planning programme will be implemented. Don't you think if you win this thing in your own place, it won't happen again?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u170	A respectable president. I think it's perfectly obvious that these systems need to talk, it's obvious they have to do it. But I'd like to come into the community planning business just to reiterate what the bill does about them. Achieving a strategy should be adjusted according to the bill in the light of a system plan. Farmers should ensure that organizational matters do not interfere with the implementation of the projects confirmed in the three-year strategy of planning and rural society will not be allowed to deviate from the transport company's proposals if this results in failure to meet their obligations according to a system plan. They're just taking the planning from rural society. It'd be much better, like a bang. A senator came in here, that the national structure, system structure, and the main organization of rural society - is going to be the whole thing, and the processes explain how to reach a conclusion on the issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u171	A respectable president. I'm very kind and obliged to come here and explain my stand on this matter as well as on my part. A senator wanted to know why I'm on notice and why I'm signing this committee opinion. This is based on the way the case was handled on the committee. We visited our guests, representing the local communities and the Land Guard, who were concerned with the concerns that have been traced here. It's on the environment and transport committee's work field to handle local and other activities. I wanted to be generally concerned about the issues and direct it to the professional committee that the rights we are to take care of according to the Congress. I felt that we were going rather far and too accurate because we did not get the other side of the matter on the committee. We did not get the visitors who could tell us why the law was important and let it go as far as it goes and so forth, so that it was missing. If we had received those visitors, the Environment and Transport Committees would have had the same discussion as the Employment Committee, so it's just some kind of procedure that was being discussed on the Environment and Transport Committee, knowing how we should be. So I felt that we were going a little far and too thorough, considering that we hadn't heard the whole story. That's why I was on notice. But I was on this committee party, and when the case was settled from the committee, I understood that the entire committee was on the record. So, in the force of cooperation and cooperation with the Committee, I wanted to feel this way, even though it went a long way. But it suddenly came out of nowhere that not all the committees were on it. So it's all the strangest thing to do, but that's how it was.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u172	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for coming here and explaining his warning, that is truly commendable. But when you read together a larger part of the environment and transport committees and a smaller part of the Committee, it's almost consistent because the majority of them are agreeing with the majority. It is not apparent that there is a major difference between members of the committee in this regard. Environmental and Transport Committee. As a noncommittee, I thought to myself when I read this: " Why isn't this one opinion? At any rate, it does not reveal the difference, and it is only fine, that is good, and further strengthens the opinion expressed in the review of the Committee. I'd like to ask you what. A member of Parliament whether he has not been disappointed by the lack of discussion of environmental and transport authorities. The employment committee and whether it is acceptable to him to agree that this discussion is concluded without any opinion that is expressed in the review of the Commission, which he sign in advance, will be discussed at the job committee and whether he will not get into a bit of trouble if he has to vote on individual articles without having to go through the factors listed and make any changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u173	A respectable president. I thank a senator for pointing out that these differences do not occur there. When the matter was settled from the committee, it was the understanding that we were all going to be together in the matter. If it had been clear to them that the less part of the committee was going to have a special opinion, I would certainly have asked that our opinion of the committee would be different and that the expression in question would be reduced to the whole committee. That's why it's like that. If it had been considered to be being sent to the trade committee on the day of its release from a environmental and transport committee, it would certainly have had time to discuss the matter. What delayed, I don't know, and how it could change in the way, that there would be two committees, that's not clear for me. As we examine the opinion of the employment committee, we find that the employment committee was discussing these issues that the Environment and Transport Committee made comments and received the members we were invited to meet. The comments we have had were made to the job committee and have been discussed there. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u174	A respectable president. It is true, of course, that the reviews of many people, such as the Land Protection and the European Union of Iceland, and many special rural groups that have sent in opinions, support environmental and transport authorities criticism. However, it was possible. The employment committee is not aware, and more of the committee, that their members in the administrative parts had these criticisms too, and they wanted to make changes in the bill to fix it and to meet both their reviews and their opinions. That's a big difference when it's clear that five o'clock is involved. The review makes it clear that certain matters need to be taken and changed. I would have thought that discussion was a basic premise that it can be continued with a second. ... aboutit.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u175	Mr. President. I was to pass the table earlier showing the presence of members of the house and on the property. I was disappointed to see that there was nothing wrong with it. paritaprevir Ásmundur Einar Daðason, what? paritaprevir Gudle Viðr Þórðarson and what. paritaprevir My dear Unnur Brá's Konráðsdóttir, she's all gone from house to house. That one. The senators were teaching us the members of our council earlier today that men should be at the workplace and be involved in action. A total of 11 of the house's executives, 32 of whom were here, as famous and authentic, not long ago. Other than that, I'm next on the rosary, a respectable president, and I had earlier in my discussion, the day before, requesting that environmental and organizational counsels and rural politics be made aware that their presence and participation were required in the discussion. Of course, I'm referring to the many commentes established by the European Union and, for example, the Organization's Office on This Issue. I believe it is legitimate that the Ministers answer to the situation of these lawsuits and therefore direct it to the President to give them the highest power. counsellors inform you that their presence is required and readily before I have my case. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u176	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon to the importance of government members during this discussion, which they put forth a great deal of effort to take care of, although the management team has two different opinions on the matter according to existing Congress documents. There is also good reason for the discussion to be attended by ministers who are responsible for the matter and especially by the highest authority. Minister of the state, who, of course, must respond to the tremendous effort to the independence of those who are expected in this bill and strategize my intelligence near the violation of the Constitution, in which national self-control is taken according to the constitution. I'd like to say that we in the state of government have been very quiet and unsatisfactory about being a minister of the past losses, but you can go so far as to drive backwards, and I'm sure there's every reason to be in charge, who insists on a material debate over unacceptable matters and unacceptable matters, sitting in a chamber. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u177	The president wants to inform us that the Ministers will be contacted and informed that their presence is required.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u178	President. I find it so strange that the executives ask us to find, they vote on it, and they complain that we do not participate in the vote, even though we are opposed to this night meeting. They want to participate in a lively discussion, as was shown at a council meeting when the Prosecutor of the Agency discussed what would be beneficial for him to be a participant and to be a participant in the discussions on this matter in particular. So I find it quite unbelievable, and what other place of work would it be so that a certain group of workmates required that a meeting be held, and then that group would all go? Where are the members of the Continent, the Great Enforcer?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u179	A respectable president. I'd like to express my satisfaction that the president contacted the Minister who was spoken of being important to listen to the discussion. I'm saying it's very important to do so. The Minister of the state is here, because this bill is making a serious approach to the planning of the local community, one of the most important things in their policy to protect. I'd also like to point out that here in the side room, I can see one or the other. A senator from the greater part of the government than himself. Councilmen not in the hall. I would like to take the perfunctory discussion they wanted when they complained that the government didn't vote with the length of Congress.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u180	President. I'd like to agree with those who have expressed their wonder that 11 members of the council seem to be in a house, but none of those who taught manners today and read spiritistically from the Senate about the duties of members of Congress, i.e. To be at votes, and so forth. This is, naturally, strange and really, all that can be called pure rudeness to us here, with this important matter for discussion. We have often said that we are ready to find a common surface on the matter, but we have to refer it back to the committee before this discussion ends. The decision is no more serious than that, more dignified president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u181	V.E.G. President. I'd like to agree with those who have come up here and describe their wonder where it is. The members of the EEA are now, the same members of Parliament, and they voted on it two hours ago or so that an evening meeting would be held on this matter that would be so urgent as to complete a second. that the discussion could not be delayed and that the matter should be taken back to a committee, working on the matter that should be settled by all. I just think it's a very strange procedure to ask for this, requiring a vote for a meeting until evening and then disappear and clearly not participate in that important discussion.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u182	Mr. President. I agree that it is necessary to bring here the Minister of the seminars, which have been highly critical of the bill, both the environment and the organizational matters, I do not speak of a new Supreme Court. Environment Minister, come here. I know it's the highest. Ministers have ambition for this group of languages, and the group of paintings has certainly come into play on its environmental issues. They're totally missing the glasses of people who are concerned about the environment, they're just completely pulled out of the bill. Of course, in terms of their rural communities, they are humiliated by the bill with a great decline in their organizational authority, so I now believe that it is their highest competitiveness. A minister to listen to a discussion about the matter and to take advantage of it as being accepted and adjusted.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u183	President. In view of the fact that the counsellors are being made aware that their presence is required, I think it is time to postpone a meeting until ministers are in the house. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon has requested their presence and has no idea. The senator must open his talk without their presence. I also want to say that this is also some sort of strange tradition, which was certainly a part of the last term, and I was truly hoping that we could begin the Allied Congress from the traditional politics, the traditional exercise of power, where one large group forces others to stay at work, i.e. to speak to everyone else, but not to those who would find; to them are not here. [[The president calls.]] President. This is not the case in modern times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u184	Mr. President. This meeting is being held here on the board of directors and specifically offered to the head of the management department, why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, but what? A senator is not in the hall, the chairman of a professional committee is not in the hall. No minister is seen here, yet the request has been made to confirm that they are here. It is the administrative body that wants this meeting to be held today and tonight, after the events on exactly this matter in the most glorious position it is in. The president has left this to man and rust here on the council program, in fact in two sense. First, the Convention is done in the afternoon or so. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, who was not on the rosary, put on it and set in front of all the others. Then the program is being canceled by the fact that all other parts of the program are expressed in a corner, so much priorities are involved. Senators prepared for it according to a plan that the prime committee discussed and agreed on Monday that international committees would be discussed today. [[The president calls.]] Is it just hope that people will be appalled at this, a respectable president?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u185	President. Now it is true that we 2nd. is a matter of custody. There is only one minister who makes this case, but there are serious comments in the reviews that have been presented since the matter was stated, on the one hand, on the affairs of the Minister of Ministers of the Interior, and on the other hand, on the environment, which are in the hands of environmental ministers. I think it is necessary for these two ministers to be present and to hear the discussion concerning the classes under which they supervise so that they can consider whether they need to take some measures to protect themselves from the lawsuits when the bill continues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u186	Mr. President. I think it's pretty damp. The Organization is one of the institutions of the Environment and Resource Ministry and this agency makes very clear, and I would say some serious comments to the bill. There is also the possibility that a professional health - care committee does not take these comments into account, and that makes it a reason for us because we have a 2. to discuss with them all the points to be prepared for the council, that they are invited to the meeting at the highest level. Minister of Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, who is Environment and Resource Minister. Whether there is a difference between the Ministry and the greater part of the workaholics must be made. I'll agree, which is rare enough for me, but I'll agree with that wish at any time. paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir says that men stop a meeting, pause him until the highest. A minister can come to the meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u187	A respectable president. I would like to agree with those members of Congress who have also pointed out the importance of the Supreme Court. The secretary of the environment is present for the discussion. I'd like to reiterate, because next time I'm on the rosary is why. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon and after him am I, that it is my sincere wish that it be emphasized to the Minister who is now contacted and declared that their presence is expected in a chamber that this wish is not bound to a speech. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon son of J. Rather, it reaches my speech, which will follow. Thus, prescient ministers can strike two birds in one blow and come here and meet the need by being present at two talks during one visit. I would also like to remind you that it is a normal part of the Senate, of course, that people are present for discussion of matters and especially if cases at the 2nd. is prepared and recognized by the board of directors on the basis of the Commission that it cannot be accepted as it says. [[The president calls.]] If that is the case, it is minimal that they are here in the hall, since they are the ones who are demanding the matter to be discussed and taken care of as it is. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u188	President wants to report to the highest level. Unfortunately, Environment and Resource Minister is busy with other duties and cannot make it, but the highest level is expected. Minister of the Interior.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u189	Mr. President. Hv. The members of the administrative body had quite a statement about the presence of members of the council here at a meeting. But now, it has been announced that very few members of the administrative body are here. The head of a professional car board is not visible, which should, of course, sit here and listen to the objective criticism of the matter. He may be somewhere under the fur, but he's not under coats with those people who should be with him under that fur to try to solve the problem. Let us hope for the best, that there will be white smoke somewhere, and the government's going to be called to a meeting, whether it's under fur or somewhere else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u190	V.E.G. President. I'm glad to hear you're almost there. Minister of state here during the discussion, and it will likely have to be respected at the highest level. Environment Minister if she is busy with other jobs. At least it's fine, we already have an explanation for why she is not present. But in view of the fact that it is coming to the highest level. Minister of state, I'd like to agree with your wishes. Councilmen, to the highest degree. President that we postpone this meeting until the Minister of Internal Affairs is in the house, it should hardly be that long. There seemed to be nothing left for the highest. Mr President, we're here to take a vote to have a night meeting, and I can't see why it should be stuck at the highest level. The president has been taking a brief break at a meeting until the minister is in the house.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u191	President wants to report to the highest level. The Minister of the Interior is in the house and is coming to the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u192	Mr. President. Both me and what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon has been intent on being torn out of bed to meet at the council in the middle of the night. It was easy on our part, though it may have been 20 years apart. Ministers and executives are to arrive when the council wishes to do so, not often. I have a clear understanding of the Supreme Court. Environment Minister may now be busy in the line of duty. I recall that shortly, after Christmas, the council asked for the Supreme Court. A minister of education would meet with the council. He was then at an important meeting in his Ministry. But he immediately concluded the meeting and came to the assembly, because of the highest. Education minister of Illugi Gunnarsson, just like the highest. Minister of state, respect for the council. I want to pray to the highest. President to inform us when to the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister can arrange for a meeting with the council. I ask him to present it to the highest level. Minister to request it and that he also get information that he can give to the council, when it will be. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u193	The President will announce that this message will be sent to the highest level. Environment and resource minister.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u194	Mr. President. In view of the highest. Minister of the state of state, the minister of local government has arrived at the council, what I celebrate, perhaps I will use my limited time to discuss mainly the issues directly to the highest level. Minister and secretary to the highest. Minister for how she values the situation. I'd like to review the inadequacy of this situation with two members of the Parliament. These include the Environment and Transport Committee, which treat the more serious aspects of this matter or should be, the environment and the planning. It tells itself that it is not a good position to continue the employment committee without any creating a business with professional environmental and transport providers and behind them, including the position of the European Commission and the Organization. Regarding the situation, a greater part of the environment and transport committees are referred to as: ▪ In the opinion of the Committee, the above points - which have been specified - are needed for a considerable change in the bill. The bill goes in reverse to legalization during the past few years in that consultation with the public and stakeholders has been added to the development of major public schemes and issues directly in agreement rather than to the one - sided decision - making process, as the bill seems to be based. With regard to the community involved, a very sensitive object has been introduced, in which all of us know very well members of the council from the past few years, the organizational authority of the rural community. It is more than saying to continue this issue in a crying conflict with all the rural communities in the country on one of the cores of what is heard and the legislation has passed, that they have the organizational authority within the code of law, which is then set down and primarily restricted by the individual laws and programmes of others, such as transport or national planning, etc. The Icelandic community has sent us detailed data, including their comments from December 8, 2014, and then I know that they have followed it more closely by letter. It simply leads to the conclusion that there are major issues in the case, as is done by the majority of the employment committees. There is a complaint that the relationship has presented the request to the Ministry that in explanations with the bill, it would be more specific, preferably with practical examples, whatever problems it would be intended to solve by means of the organizational intervention proposed in c-compet 9 g. For some reason, the relationship's wish had not been realized. Since then, these have been taken seriously by the Community Organizational Committee on this matter. As a counselor for the management and staff of the Union, she discussed the matter at a special meeting on December 5, where the results of the Organizational Committee, the professional committee of the Branch Committee on these matters, are allowed by the president: ▪ In view of the Commission's opinion, the bill is neglected, and in particular lacks a much more difficult explanation by this and more clear support for the proposals for the loss of rural planning. Criticism is that little or nothing is in the environmental context of the bill. In view of the great problems involved, the Committee believes that the Council calls for better work and then brings back the bill. The rural communities are actually saying: This bill is not available for payment, it needs to be done better. And their main focus is that the bill disappears from the surface of the earth, the government takes it to himself, does his homework, and brings a bill ready to be put out. If this is not the case, the committee says, a careful discussion of the case at the General Assembly is being handled, giving the time needed to achieve the most comprehensive agreement on the matter. Mr. President, has that been exactly done? Since it is not agreed to the Commission's wish to simply discard the case, has the coverage been very careful? No, it hasn't been done. The Synod Committee is ignored on such factors, e.g. The organizational program, and that is more than just the matter. What's the top order? The Minister of the Interior tells us on this occasion. How's the big one? The Minister of the Interior Minister should continue this discussion in the unchanged position of the matter? [[Up front.]] It's in therapy, yeah. Well, I guess you can call it a treatment. No, it's a trial of the legislature, as the aquifer says, in the opinion of local planning committees, by permission of a president: In the General Review of the bill, the legislator's position on fiscal planning and rural self - management rights is expected to be a significant strain on the planning of rural society in Article 9 c. As the moisture in front, there's a lot of problems on the bill. The relationship gives particular emphasis to the fact that the results on the subject of Article 9 c can become exemplary in comparable matters, such as the decision to fix transport and communications workers. Lack of explanation, we agree on the opinions that are directed toward rural areas and their legal role in organizational matters is particularly negative. It's not just a little thing. So the communities rightly point out that if this conclusion is in place and so does the Allegorical Council, well, it's not setting an example, is it? To just do nothing with the local community's position in such delicate language and to keep driving it that unchanged? Let me remind them, too, that it is their suggestion that the minimum means will then be prepared by means of the C-type 9. g., and they correctly point out that it is too late to start talking after the scheme has been agreed. There must be some process where more equals are involved with participants in the priming phase. This is not the way it can be done, that the transfer company, the stakeholder in the case, prepares a suggestion that a system plan and it has entirely done with the attitude and viewpoint of other parties in the process. True, the product is then to be stamped by an energy agency, which has been done and done. Thus, as local planning is being carried out, no matter what the results may be, no matter how much they may be at the end of the four years, they should be willing to change their organization. It's being suggested, Mr. President, I think it's important that we get to the top. The Minister of the Interior State saw how extreme it is to work with the rural communities or after events involving the environment, landowners, environmental organisations. [[Up front.]] Everyone other than the Landsnet, the shipping company, and the events of the Power Institute, will be in this peculiar position. This is not in harmony with modern - day view of these matters. Public access, e.g. that this process is at sea compared to what is built up in a frame plan, compared with what the government agreement has already established. It's a pre-human methodology. They're going to try to drive these cases back decades with a great power offer in behalf of certain interests. I thought we were the best at a different time, to say the second century in these matters, but here we are. Mr. President. It's important to get to the top. The secretary of the inside takes it very seriously, reading from panels to panels, to the highest level. Ministers have not already done so, the Commission's review of these matters, and the restitutions of the local planning committee. This was discussed, this is the perplexing of the words that the Environment and Transport Committee puts in its bill for the Employment Committee, which were not taken into account, which is a violation of the Parliamentary principle, since it is strictly proposed in the Article 4 mg. 23rd ... to print the opinion of other committees on hearings. This obligation rests on the majority of the Committee, as it is not to take terms of Congress off the committee until the opinion of the committee at least The majority is in place. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u195	A respectable president. I want to say the first thing. A senator thanking the highest. The Minister of the Interior has arrived. I was next to the oracle, and I had also planned to direct my words to her on this matter. The peculiar situation with regard to rural society is evident in this issue that the bill assumes that the development of rural planning will be limited. We are discussing the matter at 2 Peter 3: 1. Um., plagion treatment, like the highest. In the past, the minister of the Interior called for the time being. Yes, we are discussing it at 2 Peter 3: 1. ... wherethe issues are intended to be made to a material, efficient decision, and assumed that it would be the case in the 3rd. final clearance should be performed. However, there is a difference between the Commission on the Environment Committee and the Management Board on the topic matter and the job committee. It says that the majority of the environmental committees pay attention to the factors described in this paragraph regarding the company's superior position, the shipping company, to the rural areas. Of course, under such circumstances it is impossible to discuss the matter materially. What will be the final outcome? Which part of the management board or the administrative body of the employment committee will be responsible for this? I want to ask you why. A member of Parliament who is more experienced than any other member of the United States: He remembers the fact that cases were presented on the side of a higher level in this regard in the issue of 2nd. and the claim that they are employed for political treatment in the form of the greater part of the two committees disagree on their material content? [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u196	Mr. President. I'm not sure that my memory, which is reasonably normal, provides examples of a comparable situation in this age that governments, let alone governmental opposers or minors, do not agree with how to handle matters to 2nd. and finish it. It is unusual that opposition would also be strictly professional and that such conflict would arise between professional committees in positions of this kind. In general, it is very important to complete the most preparations and suggestions for the material changes. Environment, the main talk, which is followed by the vote for the bill an article for an article and a change in an article. Let us not forget that we are about 3rd. is paid a vote for a complete primary phrase. Now, the person listed here has been involved in the 1991 Parliamentary Reformation, and there are certainly not many of them left on this level who were in it. And I completely remember the discussion of what would be needed when the council left two divisions to one. Do they remember that prior to the 1991 change, there were six discussions of law bills in two departments? The second league could correct what had gone wrong with the first, and often it was prideful in the second league to show that the companions on the other side of the wall may not be infallible. So the bills went through very thorough laundry in this regard, and at times the seven discussions ended in a united assembly if the divisions did not meet together. Then some of the men who were in the division said, " If we're to agree, we'll have to be very careful about the traffic, and then, like, always. ... thatwewanttoreagain again to a committee between the 2nd and 3rd. In that case, the matter must be taken care of in all respects and taken care of. Umm., because otherwise they're taking a shortcut. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u197	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for this information, which was in harmony with what I had kept. Of course, when I began to study this matter and to study the money of the Senate committees, I could see that there was no conflict between government and government opposition. I'm not a very demanding man in my life, and I could have lived with a higher proportion of the government on the Environment and Transport Committee. That would have been enough for me, and I could have come to terms with that material conclusion. As a result, our position during the council is not to take a materialistic position on the matter. If there is to be some sort of consultation and further progress on the committee, as was foretold. Jón This afternoon, while he received an additional visit to the convention program, Gunnarsson's special talk in his behalf, we do not know in itself what the material outcome of that talk will be. This, of course, should be followed by a serious discussion followed by a vote for every article. I am deeply worried that if the case follows this discussion, we will not know at first how to vote on the matter as it stands, but then we will also be in complete confusion as to what its material content will be in the 3rd. Then there is a limited talk period and my prospects, and in view of the dissatisfaction of the administrative sector now, when he has an unannounced case, to accept the matter into a committee during a discussion, there is no hope that this would be due to the administrative part of the 3rd issue. The point. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u198	Mr. President. It is obvious and well documented in this case, and it would have been enough for most reasonable men to read just the opinion of more of the environment and transport committees involved in the administration. It is, in fact, there. the sentence as far as your head is concerned. A senator quoted by permission of the president: ▪ The more important part pays attention to the above points and believes that more emphasis needs to be placed on all sides [...] In the opinion of the committee, the above factors are that significant changes are needed for the bill. There is no need for further evidence. This adds to the fact that there are obvious offenders in favor of a large part of the employment committee on the case, so there is a very valid argument that he has gone out of court. Why do I say that, Honorable President? Yes, that's what I'm saying because 29. Conventional songs begin with the words: ▪ Prior to reviewing a case, a proposal should be made for the release of a committee to be made. It is forbidden to take a case from a committee unless it is mentioned. If there is no solidarity in the committee, the obligation is to bring in a greater portion of the committee, as does what happened here in the winter when a panel had to be taken back because it had been completed without any mention of the committee. Then, in 4 mg. 23rd ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ Skal print the reviews of other committees with committees on the matter of Congress. A major part of the employment committee could not rightly address the case according to the Convention unless a) contributes to the Commission's opinion, b) following the opinion of a greater part and a smaller part of the environment and transport committee. This was not done nor was the lesser part that remained saved, since in other respects the Council was allowed to see the opinions of the environment and transport committee. So I have to say for the moment, Mr. President, because individual men have come up here today, the executives, and designed to teach us the Senate, if you were in a mood, I could talk about the rest of this day, and longer, every time I was allowed to stop it immediately, because there was a violation of the council created by then. A þingmaður, John Gunnar's son, who tore up this matter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u199	Mr. President. I always find great pleasure in listening to speeches. paritaprevir Steingrímur Jóhann Sigfússon's son, so I'm prepared to sit here all night and listen to him give some political talks that he's the greatest sharpest of all of us here. But because he reviews the steps the council took by putting down the 1991 divisions, I want to at the start of my answer to the fact that I am speaking here as the last vice president of the lower department. Mr. President. I totally agree with the demands. A member of the Parliament reports that Environment and Resource Minister is coming to a meeting. Apart from the spokesman for this case, what? paritaprevir Þorsteinn's Sæmundsson, no senator of the House of forward, has ever expressed himself, except at least. paritaprevir Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son. And what? A manager has not been seen in these sales since we saw under his heels an intelligent debate that began here. There is a prerogative of the Action Party, one with power and one with an environmental issue that has been put to the fore. paritaprevir Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son. And it is absolutely clear that he is of that opinion, such as the opinion of what he sent forth as the chairman, that considerable changes must be made on the bill. He also confirmed in word with me that he felt that it would be necessary to enter the bill of charges that are not found in it. Similarly, he was making extensive statements as to what to do with a system plan here at the council. It is not clear, then, whether the advance party has the same issue. So I'd like to ask you why. A member of Parliament: Can he continue this meeting differently than it is available to represent the forward - looking class of the government, which will handle the seminary, the Supreme Court? Minister, may we meet and explain? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u200	Mr. President. First, I would like to ask kindly that, of course, I made a mistake not to mention and address the highest. The last vice president of the bottom section of the soul, since I was reviewing the changes to the group ship of Allallis on a different level. Of course, that's exactly what you're talking about. A senator began his journey here on this change in the spring council of 1991. It is for the sake of reason that the only speaker for the Agency during the discussion that has been spoken as a senator, not as a leading authority, is a subject of shock. paritaprevir Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son. He was absolutely clear on his stand. I listened to what I heard. A senator traces the opinions of the environment and transport committee and does not move abroad. I heard why. paritaprevir Höskuldur the son of Þórhallsson does not diminish one of its features, so they stand unfashioned, at least of the head of the Environment and Transport Committee, the tips presented and the management of these options. It's the planning and the rurals, but it's also the environment, and I agree with that. I think it's very important to do so. The Environment and Resource Minister is also here for the discussion and to the highest level. Ministers made their point. Their attendance and listening are greatly improved, but they will be even better if they respond and answer questions, and we will be more closely aware of how they evaluate the situation. I think it must be clear to everyone that this case has just landed in a chaos and there's nothing but the wall ahead, it's just an iron-big concrete coming up if you're gonna drive it forward like this, it's got to be clear to everyone. It will be ruined, just perfect warfare from the first day on issues that were to settle disputes, create guidelines, frames, to try to get closer to making better decisions on these problems. It could be as bad as trying to keep it going.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u201	Mr. President. In this discussion, I have emphasized that for my part it is very important that two key elements are resolved. On the one hand, on the bill there is a clear warrant for charges of closing status. I think it is necessary that, in the end, even those who have a large part of such controversy that will always arise will enjoy at least Illegal for what it's worth. They have had a day before the judgment, could reason, and then the principle is that there is a certain conclusion that humans will then face on either side of the line. Second, I think it is very important, to take back power to an elected representative who is sold from both the Allied and the local administrations with the bill, that there is the minimum, kind of a black minimum, that a system plan is being discussed here at the council. Under these circumstances the director of the Environment and Transport Committee, and he is on top of the top platform of the candidates, the two here mentioned in the discussion. No one else has expressed themselves. If they come up here on a different level and say they're somewhere and they're hiking in the house in the shards, it's an event in this discussion if you can see the face of one of these fine men. In view of the fact that the Chairman of the Environment Committee has declared himself unconcerned to the bill as it is in the present form and the fact that the employment committee is not expected to review it, at least I don't think it's a big hit, I don't think it's the least of it. Environment and resource minister, the highest authority in the forward-looking category in these areas, whether or not they agree with the head of the Environment and Transport Committee. [[The president calls.]] If it isn't, then there's bound to be a dead bill, and we're wasting our time here. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u202	Mr. President. I'm totally dead, therefore. I think it's a matter of time. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son has his minister behind him and other members of the advance party is the death sentence for the head of the professional authorities and for the majority of them. I hope that's the way it is because it's a total failure to continue. The sad fact is that in the foundation, the thinking is good in this matter and the preparation of it is a great deal from the time of the last government. Second, if we review this material, it is like this, that there is not a creative amount of things like why. A senator rightly entered a situation that needs to be handled primarily. If we take the reviews of the Agency, the European Union, the Land Protection Agency, and several other bodies, it may be possible to simplify it to four factors. I start one step above what. Senator. First, there must be more equality between partners in planning a system plan and some agreement must be introduced as the rural communities ask for so that you will not be able to deal with it afterwards if there is no agreement. Second, dear, yes, there must be some sort of way built into it. Third, a compromise on the environment. That is what the United States of Iceland points out in its comments. It's a good thing that it's on the Watch for that party, so you don't talk about the reviews of the Land Protector where it's properly indicated, for example. it is missing to be included in the lists of non-susceptible areas and protected areas for special requirements. Fourth, the result would be that the Council confirmed a system plan. That would be a lot of work. There may not be much more to do than this. Four, five separate components, or chemical areas of this kind, could be achieved much more, much more peace and solidarity over these matters, and then would be won for some purpose rather than if it were to be driven uninvolved against them, I'll stand by what I'm heita Steingrimon J. Sigfusson that it will increase the debate over these matters rather than diminish them. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u203	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's stilgrim demanded that there be two of the highest standards for the meeting. Ministers. V.E.G. The secretary of the state came to the conference to pay for the council. At least a senator turned to her. one of the core questions that are being raised in this discussion, for mobilization of rural organisations under specific circumstances. I think it would be a great deal for the discussion if it came up, the sooner, the better, the highest. Secretary of the country, the Minister of Internal Affairs for that. But then I find that I have accepted a claim. The senator to the highest. The resource and resource minister is coming to the meeting. It doesn't have to be here long, and for both of these advisers, I insist they have the authority and permission to enter the discussion whenever they want, but the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister does not need to be here long. [[The president calls.]] She just needs to decide if she agrees. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son is more than a thing for change, or not.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u204	President. I want to agree with that request, and first of all, I find it very strange that the head of the professional committee, the great man who has put the World Council upside down once more, does not honor us with his presence. It's amazing to me. And it's even more odd to me. A senator does not participate in these discussions, and most amazingly, I feel at the height. The secretary of the environment does not see fit to put the priority of coming to the Generals and having a word with members of the council and listening to those members who especially wish for the presence of the Supreme Court. Minister. I wish for a hearing to be postponed until the highest level. A minister can honor us with his presence as well as the head of the professional committee because we are here in a void to talk to ourselves.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u205	A respectable president. I want to agree with what. paritaprevir The Aggressor of Össur's Skarphéðinsson, asking for it to the highest degree. Environment Minister, come here and listen to the comments made. I appreciate it at the highest. The Minister of the state that she came here and will address her afterwards, of course, I expect her to explain to the U.S.A. whether she is a member of the country or if she agrees with the decision - making process. In the same way, it is important to get to the top. Environment Minister, report to the hall to explain to the head of the Environment and Transport Committee, their platoon leader. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son, or whether she wants to go on this tragic journey with the faults of the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u206	President. I want to agree with what. Senator. I can't quite imagine what the biggest thing is. The Environment Minister has more important things to do than to come here and stay here for, like, half an hour or an hour and grant the wishes here have been offered fairly. I think she should take the highest. The Minister of the inside serves as an example in this regard. Then I miss the head of the pro board. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, but I have to say, I also miss a bit of the background here. It's not just some committee presidents who are the pot and the pan, but they're special managers in the matter, and I haven't seen an authority in this case today except when he was atrociously shocked by the fact that members of the council did not make theirs. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] He doesn't look like he's doing his thing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u207	The President wants to inform the highest level. Environment and resource minister has reported that it will meet below.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u208	Mr. President. I'm so happy to hear it. The Environment and Resource Minister is coming to see us and his sisters, the highest. Minister of state. For that reason and for the words that have fallen upon the head of the employment committee, why. The speaker of the case, I'll point out that as the events were interpreted by the highest degree. Today, the chairman of the Committee, even if he is not an executive, can come into this discussion whenever he wants to. That was the way it was today. I think they'll take into account that it's now time for dinner, and we're having dinner at the top. The Minister of Environment and Resources, and my beloved Chairman and Leader of My Life, next on the rosary, I imagine that he among others has some questions to send to the highest level. Environment and resource minister, I think it's best to drop by here tonight and we walk now and get some nutrition. I know that it will probably be given some lunch break, then it's not right to do so now and wait to start a meeting until the highest level. Environment and Resource Minister coming back?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u209	Mr. President. Now it's got the highest. The Minister of the Isthmian Council listens to various criticisms, especially from the Organization and the European Union of the United States. If so, why not discuss this matter with her? The head of the pro board, Jón Gunnarsson, and try and, I don't say, "Get his head in front of him," but get to him? We in our government stand have tried to do so in a challenging way, but we have not yet succeeded. I also say that I miss the subject's prominent speaker, huh? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, can't be seen in the conference hall and has not been seen here in the latter part of the day. I'm beginning to suspect someone is somewhere in the area trying to find an landing in this case, but I'm afraid they'll crash if the government has nothing to do with it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u210	Mr. President. It's a pleasure to hear that it's the highest. Environment and resource ministers are expected to meet. I can agree with what was previously said that her visit might in itself be short or short if she would make us happy by coming here and merely confirming that she was behind the head of the Environment and Transport Committee and its party brother. Þórhallsson Höskuldur, of course, regarding the position he and the environment and transport committee have taken on the matter. The same is really true of the highest. Internal Minister, if it shares the views of an environment and transport committee with regard to rural society, and then you can find the information of the European Union's member countries. If so, we would have been responsible for these two of the highest powers. Minister to take advantage of his party brothers, huh? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson. paritaprevir Höskuldur Þórhallsson, to restore political relations between the Parliament's professional committees. But that is, of course, the absolute minimum because we are all in politics now, that political relationships are maintained between professional committees and Generals.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u211	President. I really wanted to do it. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir would have been right in that the absence of the head of the professional committee, anyway. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son, and the manager of the case, why. paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Gerstein, the Sæmundsson of Sæmund, is because they are sitting somewhere and finding a way to save this case. But I have to say, I don't think it's that bad. I think that's what we're talking about. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir is in a state of optimism, if you don't mind me saying. Like other senators, I'm going to celebrate the Supreme Court. The Environment and Resource Minister is going to show us the respect of looking here and listening to the chairman of the United Nations. Perhaps someone might be inclined to adjust to what is normal. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon might say something to her, too.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u212	President. I ran into members of the board of directors in the hallway and asked why they were not participating in the discussion, and I saw that they were going into the dining room. Then there seems to be a misunderstanding with the government that we want to be so busy talking about it. It's just not like that. It was that the firm request of the vice class chairman of the forward movement was placed here. This was in total opposition to members of the council in my section. We would like to have this discussion interrupted so that a successful solution can be found outside the council hall so that the amulets can be fixed in the bill that is not held in Congress. Since the members of the board have misunderstood this matter, and they chose to have a meeting now, perhaps there is a basis for me to stop the meeting altogether.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u213	Mr. President. I want to express my joy at the highest. Environment Minister is coming here, hopefully to participate in the discussion, not just to listen, but to participate in the discussion. It is one of the things we have called after, the ones who have been in this discussion, and who were critical of the work done by most of the professional authorities, that they should not be listened to the much criticism that is presented in the reviews of these matters. It would be unnatural if it were the highest. The secretary of the environment is not represented by the chairman of the Environment and Transport Committee in this issue. It is to be understood that the advance party is going to deny what. paritaprevir The Höskuldur of Þórhallsson's son in this matter? Is it really so that no one would trust to come here in a pita and speak to the head of the Environment and Transport Committee who presented a critical review? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u214	V.E.G. President. Like others, I want to be glad that we're almost there. Minister of the environment here for the discussion. I just hope she comes here as soon as possible. At the same time, I'd like to agree with those who have described, so to speak, what. Sæmundsson's spokesman for the case, Sæmundsson, as well. Chairman of the Professional Road Committee, Jón Gunnarsson. Since the requirement to take the matter back now is not immediately to be met by a committee to continue working as soon as it has been declared that there is a need for a problem and that is urgent, there must be minimal delay. Elders are present and participate in the discussion. If they can't do that, take the case back and finish working on a committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u215	A respectable president. I think there's a reason to comment on this important matter. First, I'd like to say that it is of course important to produce a bill that aims to set a law on the building of the electricity system with principles in mind that may be based on the environmental rights principles to contain and act wisely on such structure. I agree with what has been presented here in the discussion that this is a very good basis for this case in many ways, but it is a rare defect. I would also like to mention that the development of the power system is an enormous interest in all of us. During my travels through the country, I have been surprised to learn how many places there is a lack of secure delivery of electricity that stands in the way of employment development and the weakened distribution system in general. Everyone knows the problem in the West and the big problems there are, but I have been surprised to see in the North East and in many Eastern countries how difficult it is to get electricity and that rural communities are really in that position, even in the River Valley region, to deny companies who want to come but need extra power. Experts have said to me that the system is, in effect, built up around two main stations that can be compared to two tankers that are bound together with snow. If that explanation is correct, it becomes clear to all how important it is to strengthen the bond between the two tankers. Of course, this must be our objective, but it does not matter how it is done, and it is important to ensure that the development of the development of the land in general guarantees the availability of electricity, but it is also consistent with the natural view of environmental protection and reasonable structure, since we also do not want to spend too much money on the building up of these kinds, which are not used or used. The situation here is very special. We've talked about it in a little bit, but the tensions of the committees that have been discussed in monotonous terms, I don't think, any examples of the political element being such an overwhelming failure between two committees. I'm not making fun of it when I say that I think more part of the environment and transport committee is so good to me that I'd really like to write up the changes in the bill just on those grounds. So I'm not putting it into the board of directors at the Council as such. If they speak for him, then I'm in serious agreement with them. They criticize that rural transport companies are in a position of superior activity and will be able to manipulate rural communities to change planning, not to be expected adequate treatment in the case of disagreements, talk about the design creating a process that is more effective in building up than, for example, a transport program adopted by the General Assembly and has a direct democratic commission in this way, claiming to pay attention to these factors, covering detailed comments of the Organization's problem on the charges and inexplicability of their problems. And then for the next item on the program of this meeting, a proposal for a government resolution policy, they also warn of the primary defect in the suggestion that there will be some firm criteria for the application of an electric line that can be absolutely and irreverent that a ground cord cannot be more than 1.5 times more expensive than an airline. All of this makes me feel very reasonable. They are all in accordance with the main recommendations stated, e.g. ... fromSecretService and the Organization. This conflicting government is certainly news to the next town. I know why. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, director of a professional committee, has great ambition to be quick to settle matters, and he enjoys handling them as quickly as possible. But there was once a comic hero who made a big deal of it, Lukku-Láki Link, and about him they said he was faster than the shadow of shooting. He thus managed to shoot out the gun before pulling it out of the sheath in accordance with the shadow. I feel there's been a bit of a problem in case of a problem. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is already making such an effort to be quicker than the shadow of shooting that he is taking care of matters before dealing with them materially on the committee. I seem to be becoming reality and repeated events of his life, of course, a major conflict and conflict over this, that of the delicate interaction between economic development and environment, the necessary consultation between committees, the necessary agreement between stakeholders and councils, and that is dishonored by the methodology that has been used by man. Then I want to discuss some material about the factors here. First, it is very special to read the bill on the basis of what method of transport, which is well meant by the public community, the Landsnet, how it is granted greater power over the construction of its activities than I remember seeing in other parts of the public system. The wording is actually rare, deserving of consideration, in 1st. who will be 9. a says: the package enterprise shall be submitted annually to the Power Institute for the agreed transport system structure program. A word of that in Icelandic law has generally been thought to include a expectation that this should be agreed upon, but it should not be submitted annually to the Power Institute for Material Assessment, a system plan to be decided on by the Power Institute. No. It has been submitted to Power Institute for approval. Secondly, as the administrative sector of the environment and transport committee put it so well, the transport company is placed in high position against rural and other stakeholders, i.e. In this case, of course, with regard to an important wide range of interests, employment interests, land interests, access to electrical energy and interests in general around the country, security and, of course, environmental interests, the company's own evaluation and need for a key position. I'm not going to allow anyone to want to walk in matters of national interest, but it tells itself quite that the public community, Landsnet, is fulfilling a role in the structure and operating of transport systems. The less expensive it is, the better. As a result, the pressure will always increase, on structure as cheap as possible, and the prospect that the cost of sacrifice on environmental issues and other factors will not be taken into account adequately. When you think of the fact that this public community should be in charge, you get this conclusion. Who could think of in 2015 to bring a bill that would determine the development of energy options for their own country? I don't think anyone's gonna think of that. Who would come to mind that Istavia would determine the structure of flight whales? I don't think anyone's gonna think of it, and that's how long you could count it. Of course, there is some amazing ancient conflict and canntelbrat on this view. Either this is a sign of complete elimination of energy policy development to those who want unregulated structure, or this is a sign of a behavioural style, which has not noticed anything that has happened in Iceland's development administration since 1970. The words in this article are then in many ways - I just like to read them because they are so amazingly moving. In the first century C.E. mg, to be 5 mg. Count 9. a says: The European Commission shall consult the European Union of Iceland, a member of the rural community [...] for a system plan. In other words, the project is totally placed in the hands of the shipping company, but there is no restitution. ▪Ávvv or be placed in a line of transfers to the second most recent verse 1. Gr., the one who is supposed to be 9. c in the bill - а in organization to get the move of the shipping company in accordance with a system plan, to have its consultation and its planning authorities. A rural government is forbidden to deviate from the motion of the shipping company. It's such a peculiar methodology that I have to agree with a greater part of the environment and transport committee. I'm not putting into my section, I'm particularly pleased with just the many brothers I have, they're all male, yes, in more part of the Environment and Transport Committee in this case. The transport company is being placed in high position against rural society and an adequate course of treatment is not expected to result in reconciliation if there is a difference. The company is in the middle of nowhere. Other governments are also placed in a limited position. Energy Institute is talked about, but this is to be submitted to the Power Institute and it can be concluded that the Power Institute is not expected to have an unregistered assessment of these advantages. I know that there are, of course, certain sources to the Power Institute under the bill for a reevaluation, called a system control programme, the chapters dealing with the authority of the Power Institute. I have serious doubts about the authority that the authority to refuse and reevaluate a system plan, that its reevaluates its grounds are not in the government, but then, first of all, the Council has no authority. The government has not explained authority but has to reevaluate what comes from the company. Then we come to the locals. There, elected representatives are completely cast into the corner. They're just supposed to obey the shipping company. We have other plans. We have a groundwork that's put in front of the Council. We have a transport program submitted to the General Assembly. On the basis of it, decisions are made on the many structures of transport, whether airports, roads, or other such factors. All of this will be done at the General Assembly, a natural democratic debate at the General Assembly, and as shown in the discussion and in the opinion of the less part of the labour board, the laws of roads, for example, limit the chances of making road lines so that examples from other existing laws are not being used here. Some old examples that have become out - of - date are not being used. We have only other aspects of organizational order in a completely different form. Thus, many decades are going back. You also ask: "Is this law of the Arrose Treaty about public access to information? Where can we find these tears? The highest power is at hand. During his last term, prime minister on the importance of the public's approach to decision making when he spoke for national pay of most things? It's taking place, not just by democratic elected agents, not just by the public, but by democratic elected representatives, all the authority on the structure of this structure and hand it over to a company in town? Perhaps it would be appropriate to ask the leading spokesmen of this matter to read them with tears in the highest power. Since the last term on the importance of the nation's discovery of complex decisions, about how people can manage things in their own environment. I won't, because my time is being cut out, covered in detail the benefits of an electric line that may be better discussed in the Senate resolution proposal that is next to the program but that is by no means fully developed, either in this bill or in that council-sense proposal, an adequate set of provisions for reassessments of different costs. I feel that there's some bias in these anti-earthen cables, but I believe that technological progress is inevitable to look more at them. The Guardians met with us at the United States Congress the other day and presented information on development in France and elsewhere in Europe, where there is a tremendous amount of high - power cables to the ground, all in one canal, and without any barrier to traffic. This road and railroad tracks can be covered, and land can be cultivated on top of it. The only thing is that the cord must not be built on exactly the site of its cord and about 10 meters [10 m] on each side. This, of course, is an enormous revolution, and it cannot be overlooked. A respectable president. I've been discussing something about this democratic government. I wanted especially to the highest. The minister of the state, unfortunately no longer in the hall, but I believe that she hears my speech, emphasizes that the minister has to make a clear statement as to whether he is a self-sponsored member of the local community. I simply don't think that the directives of the transport company's decision-making to their communities are in violation of the Constitution of the Community's own decision-oriented rights. It is very important that the Minister of the Internal Affairs take decisive action and demonstrate authority as a spokesman for the local community's opinion of the nature of the above. I would also like to draw attention to the comments that have been made on whether Power Institute meets conditions for being an independent party to determine the issues that may arise due to the role of the Agency in other ways. I think it gives me some thought. I think we should consider whether it's not a special decision officer needed to arrive in this regard if it's a good idea. We already see that the Power Institute takes a specific position in building energy options when it comes to reevaluating the costs for a frame plan, and hence it is a big question based on the role of the Agency in other respects whether it can be what you would call in Latin arbiter jazz, i.e. The righteous neutral judge of various interests or whether according to a legal function, the role is not too limited to ensure structure in order to be reasonably able to address differences that tend to conflict between structure and environmental protection.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u216	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. He made several issues and ended up discussing the access of the Power Institute to the agreed system. It has been found to be critical that the induction of the third EU electricity directive is an independent party of a treatment strategy. I'd like to hear from what happened. A senator whether he thinks the Power Institute can fill this role, whether it is related to all of this, as it is under the secretary and under the energy manager. Like what? A candidate requested a number of costs for reviews within Task Group 3 for a frame plan and can be identified as an independent member of these topics. Also, I'd like to hear from you. A senator regarding what is stated in the bill that the basis for a system plan should include the frameworks and the advantages of a waiting and practical group, not as it has been suggested, rather, an electrical forecast and the need for long-term citizens. Is it reasonable to assume this, since what will not even be new and what will be applied, either to a waiting class or to a waiting class?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u217	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. First of all, I think about whether the Power Institute is too limited to ensure the construction of energy initiatives according to a legal function in order to be credible to a decisiongiver when it comes to a debate on the structure of a verse of environmental protection. Then I'm not accusing the employees of the Power Agency of one thing or another. They may only have a legal role, but we may not have, according to the law, ruled by the Contestant Guard as to whether any competition or monopoly should be in certain areas. We know about the outcome because the legal role of the Contestant Board is to increase competition, and we want it to do so. About the other question, as a dog. A senator came along, I think it's very good. I think the danger is the complex danger in this case, that there's a structured build-up of the electricity system. If the whole distribution system depends on the fact that everything that is in the waiting category and everything in the innovation class should be activated, we will need a very large distribution system. But now it is not even a matter of decision to add something to a novelty party is a decision to make a new one, let alone a waiting party. So the danger is that we make too much demands on the size and transport capacity of the system. What will this lead to? This leads them to an enormously large, high range of lines, and as a result, geological cables become so troublesome, they just get inexorable, because the basis for the ability to bear is so erotic that it can be difficult to find a place. That's why I think it's really dangerous to expect such a high degree of size as I think it's done in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u218	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the counter-sponsored. The bill assumes that the transport companies will have to submit a three-year implementation programme and a 10-year plan and that their rural communities will need to be planned within four years for this implementation plan, on the options set out in the transport system, and put it on their own planning. It has now been asked, regarding the possible benefits of responsibilities that could arise, damage responsibility. The European Union has asked these questions: Who is responsible for the damage done by organizational adjustments? I think that's a good, valid question to be asked. We know about the framework plan that it will certainly walk into the development of rural society, where rural communities are expected to have longer periods of time, up to ten years, to set the available option on an organization, since it can change. But there, this is a pretty narrow time to put this on, whatever happens after that about the construction and the transport ceremony. I'd like to hear some attitude. That's what a senator is for. It has been criticized that a system plan does not have to go to any environmental assessment. We know that environmental assessments need to be conducted, various plans, such as transport plans and other plans today. Why should this environmental assessment programme be overlooked, which, of course, has a profound impact on landscapes and all that follows?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u219	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator again has good questions. First, on the damage - this is a very interesting question that I had not considered in the past to be satisfactory. We watch a building on a tower in Reykjavík, in the Shadow District, all in the city council are not agreeing to be built, every political party and every city council is against the tower. But because of his organization and his ten - year - old approval, it is being built because the city has not been permitted to stop it and not be possible. It is said here that the local authorities should, no later than four years from an agreed system plan, to coordinate strategy for projects established for the 10-year strategy. In other words, if a community hasn't changed its plans within four years, it's just breaking the law. And who will then pay the compensation to a builder who will then be able to bear a line where he had intended to build, etc.? Who's going to pay for the damages? Is it the State? That's a very good question. I also think it's worth thinking about, from what I was talking about before, oversize, that in 3. mg, where it should be 9. a, says the design of a system plan should be based on realistic scenarios. A national protection system has already begun because of the proposed system. National protection estimates that there are too far too far too far too far to be built, both for activation purposes and for demand in the system. They have presented a most persuasive and valid argument. Then you ask: "Who is responsible for overcharging the system? Is it just a sunken cost? Is it so as to be costless for transport companies to put too much of a system on consumers, but the risk is all on rural areas that try to keep their country or to stop their building plans? [[The president calls.]] [[Landed on consumers.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u220	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Páll's Árnason before his speech are years away, and he agrees with his statement that the development of the power system is urgent and important. I thank him for the material discussion he went through on this legal bill. However, I would like to use my first answer in order to have a place to say. A member of Congress on the treatment of the matter, since he now has a considerably longer legal experience than I do. To be honest, when I began to study this case, I was surprised to learn how subjectively more parts later. The pro committee is. By reading it, I could not really see that there had been any specific comments to the subject. It wasn't until I started reading the enclosed documents published by a minority count. A professional committee I began to see that something more was on the back. There were some comments to the matter. That's why I'd like to ask. Senator: Is this a regular procedure? In general, when you study committee opinions and other jobs, you have to go back to the material comments that are made on the subject. Committees for Congress, but the one you are personally seated on?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u221	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator's question. Even though I'm kind of a chicken here at a council hall and I'm not elected for Congress until 2007, I think the answer must be no, it's not a regular procedure. Hv. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask, which has been here more than the oldest men remember, was now in answer to the fact that not printing documents of other committees by committees would be a violation of Congress, as was the case in the payment of a professional committee. At any rate, I've always come in a way that involves more than merely taking a more serious position on any criticismal subject. This has been the kind of work I have used as my guide and chairman in committees. I think it's in general being done, and I've noticed that it's now being done on the Economic and Business Committee where I sit, men do it. The smaller part is often short - lived, taking out what he thinks is particularly interesting. If he does not make comments to others, perhaps he enjoys the rest of the committee's opinion in another way. In this respect, the review of more parts and smaller parts of the environment and transport committees is a very good example of routine work in which much of the increase is referred to by the majority of the share of the reduction. It may be funny, as it is late at night that this may not be an unprovable incident. Of course, this means that it is very simple to be in a position of government. You can always support the government in some way. If the board has two policies in one matter and a greater part has each course in its committee, you can truly say that you are the government, you can always support the government, because you can only choose whether to support it on a professional committee or an environmental and transport committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u222	V.E.G. President. Thank you. For this answer, I am really glad that I have not misunderstood the basics of Congress when I am so surprised at how this committee was conducted. I would like to use my second answer to ask more about the material content of the bill, which, of course, we must also discuss and should really just discuss, not have to spend the terms that should be considered natural. I'd like to ask you what. A member of the Parliament on a vision of an ancient arrangement in which the power of decision is taken from the democratically elected representatives of the system strategy. What kind of illustrations do they consider? A senator that we should rather look at a system plan in order to demonstrate the presence of the public that the case is insured?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u223	A respectable president. It is a good question and a little fun to wonder that in the past, when a financial committee called the budget, the system was very democratic, when members of Congress decided every roadside and every government project. [[Up front.]] It was not necessarily highly efficient and called for a significant waste, and it may not have been always prioritised for public interests. That is why they set up clinics that gave advice on such matters. What's new about this bill is not hiding a professional agency but a private person, a business in town, planning the structure of important infrastructure. I gave an example in my speech how ridiculous it would be if someone thought that Istavia was to determine where airports were, or that land activation should determine one side of the energy to be used. I think that the best arrangement we can look at is a structured and on the other hand, perhaps. to a much greater extent, the transport strategy proposed for the General. She has this discussion, and then, on the basis of it, the lines are laid. I think there's an important basis for this. Of course, we have, in some ways, created laws similar to those made by a frame plan, though I am deeply concerned that the administrative body wants to ignore that process, which allows for a particular interaction between the democratic elected representatives and professional institutions. Of course, that must be the way. The democracy and the medical institutions must be called on. Then we can see from the other side of the management section that criticizes decisions during the last terms that democratic elected persons took within the framework plan and said that they were only supposed to follow trade institutions. [[The president calls.]] There are no professionals here, just companies in town. Of course, it must be that professional institutions and democratic elected representatives make decisions about each individual and their decisions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u224	A respectable president. In my first speech today, I could not discuss what I wanted to discuss. I'm not wearing any. A work committee or a transport board and has not read all the reports on the matter but have read enough information to help me realize that a pot is broken. The reviews I've covered are fundamentally consistent and draw out similar emphasis and more of the environment and transport committees do and actually reduce the share in their review. There is a transnational harmony in environmental and transport headlines, and there are things important to consider. As mentioned above, based on the way the situation is growing, a professional health committee has not taken this information for discussion, that the case was delayed, and then resumed, and we were about to complete 2. Already the comments would have been made, making suggestions that would make peace with the subject. V.E.G. In particular, the executive minister of industry and trade spoke of the reason for the bill being to find ways to ensure that all projects would not be adversely and adversely affected, and they were overly delayed and delayed for all kinds of progress in the country, so that at the highest rate. A minister will surely welcome relief. In my first speech, I reviewed the review from a greater part of the environment and transportation committee, and I had already discussed the main focus that Land Protection put in its review but did not quite complete it. I had already discussed what National Protection said about the lack of a structured program that predicts fortresses. Whether or not there will be a demand for electricity, financial preference for activation, environmental programmes, and so can be said not to say that activation options, whether they are modern or waiting groups, are reliable benefits under the schedule to be met. In his review, National Protection also states that the handling of issues that might arise is unclear, e.g. Between rural society and the Landsnets. The review also says, with the permission of a president: The Act would be entrusted with an important monitoring role, but by the third energy directive of the EU, which, in part, is being introduced by the bill, an independent and independent surveillance party is required against all other public and private authorities. Since Power Institute is subject to the Minister of Energy and the director of the Agency, the head of the staff in charge of the management process will not be able to see that this requirement is met. It is a national protection to say that the Power Institute as it is now cannot fulfill this task. It would then have to support the Agency financially and as legally as possible for this to work. National Protection reports that by means of the bill, legislators are overly simplified and greatly reduced the arrival and authority of democracies on important social matters. The transport industry is undergone abnormally high power and environment is treated in a small way in the bill, reducing the emphasis on that matter relative to current legislation. According to the bill, under the review of Land Protection Agency is an energy agency as a health care provider, e.g. It was not intended to take a position on environmental issues, although the European Commission Directives agree on this general authority's obligation. It so happens that harmony is with the emphasis established by Land Protection and the communities put on it. According to a reference work in the European Union, the relationship takes into account indications that many sources show that there is a significant lack of environmental considerations in the text of the bill. The review puts it word for word, with president's permission: This must be considered a major factor on the bill in terms of the 4th fraction 1. The law says that one of the law's aims is to: to use renewable energy, and to take into account other aspects of the environment. According to the Community opinion, it would have been necessary to make the bill more clear in what way it is intended to integrate the law's objectives through efficiency, efficiency, security and environmental considerations. It is a harmony with the comments of the European Union's member countries and the protection of the United States, although the choice of words is not the same. I see that time is running fast, but the Commission's review says about the opinion of the Community planning committee, with permission of presidents: ▪ In view of the Commission's opinion, the bill is neglected, and in particular lacks a much more difficult explanation by this and more clear support for the proposals for the loss of rural planning. Criticism is that little or nothing is in the environmental context of the bill. In view of the great problems involved, the Committee believes that the Council calls for better work and then brings back the bill. If there is no reason at all, a careful discussion of the matter will be made at the General Assembly and therefore give the time needed to achieve the most comprehensive reconciliation. The European Union puts great emphasis on all its plans for the planning as one of the terrestrial rights of self-management and should be respected. I can't imagine that the rural communities in this country will be at peace if they see to it that they're not taking over the structure as the bill does. I think it doesn't matter what part of it it is. The employment committee has found the matter, according to my opinion, it is clear that the 9th will have to be changed. The bill, and even the 1st and 2nd paragraph. The same. There will be no escape. In C-mer 9. is referred to as rural societies and how they belong to the Landsnet and to change their plans according to the programme discussed in the bill. There is no way to imagine that the rural communities would pass it on, and I think the representatives of the European Union believed that they should take into account their previous comments. They talk about it in the review that a good consultation was made on the subject of the bill, taking into account some comments, and they were reasonably pleased with the bill, except for these big points, which most reporters seem to agree on the need to correct. Again, I suggest that the case be postponed, and if they wish to have a night meeting, there will be other matters to be taken care of, and we can take care of it. We must not allow such obvious mistakes, I allow myself to say, in the treatment of the situation, General's work is blocked in this way. It is not wise to do so.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u225	Mr. President. I thank you for the good talk and accept all the viewpoints that were presented there, and I want to reiterate what was presented in the talk that when a clear mistake is made, it is important to settle it elsewhere than in a council hall. So I think it is very important and agree with the senator that we interrupt the discussion and continue with the issues that were on the program today because I know that there is a certain willingness to be settled among the different parties in the matter. I'd like to ask the senator if she knows that this kind of thing is going to happen, if it's not a procedure we need to ensure that we don't have a tradition at the General Assembly. Hv. The senator listed the factors that stand out, they are important, but aren't I correct that there aren't too far between different viewpoints on this issue? Would it not be easier to find a point where we can get the matter out of harmony outside the U.S. chamber than from the inside?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u226	A respectable president. That's my hope. Councilmen on the pro board, at least Those in the greater part are meeting with the chiefs of the day somewhere. Environment and Transport Committee. They're not here at the council Hall, I hope they're in some room trying to figure out a solution. I am convinced that there is an area of reconciliation, and we can also see that there is a problem. Directors who sign the majority of the Environment and Transport Committee. There are five members of the board who want the bill to be examined and the points we've been discussing here, and all agree on those who have considered a need to be examined. There are five legislatures, and seven members of the board are needed to drop the bill. And I'm absolutely certain that those council members who have been members of the countryside must watch the bill and the reviews from that point of view and must want to help with the 9. the bill, e.g. As the European Union suggests in its review. I don't know if the sentences are sufficient for change, but at least I think that's a good way to settle. It is often so difficult to see harmony, but that is not the case. It is easy to see that it can be processed at peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u227	Mr. President. What I think may seem strange to the bill is how far it goes into the rural rights of society, and as I have seen it, their ministers have not been fully aware of how far this will go into their fields. You see, I think this matter needs to be considered in a committee. I wanted to ask the senator how she feels about that now we have repeatedly tried to get a environmental minister here to have a word with us and to account for the concerns we are concerned about in this matter of protection. How does the senator feel about the difficulty at times in getting ministers into the house when we discuss matters that are directly under their direction?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u228	A respectable president. It's not good when it's the highest. Ministers cannot take the time to listen to a discussion, especially in a case where there are so many opinions and the topic areas of several advisers. But I can't help but hope to the highest. Ministers are in touch with the council members, discussing with them how these matters can be successfully established. That's where we're talking about the highest. An industrial and commercial minister who has declared it to be important to find a way so that most people can handle it. That's where we're talking about the highest. The Minister of the State, who handles the local community's affairs and is well aware of the importance of rural society's planning not to be impaired, and then environmental Ministers are missing all the environmental power on the bill.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u229	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the speech. A system plan may now be compared to some other plans made by the council in the form of the council arrangement. I would like to mention a transport program and a community plan, a communication plan, and other programs that will enter the council, where democratic elected agents will have the opportunity to discuss this plan. There are debates, and so the public has access to expressing their views, and this is getting a lot more access and democratic discussion than is expected in this strategy. This may be one of the things you feel that a greater part of the employment committee should have focused on and taken part in, which seems to be so in the eye of a system plan, that it should come in for consideration at the General Assembly, for in the bill it shows that the arrival of many is not a guarantee that should have access to this great planning and the Organizational agency complains very much about it. I'd like to hear some attitude. A senator's view of this, whether it is very obvious that a system plan should come in as a synonym and have a detailed discussion at the Council, reviews, and so on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u230	A respectable president. Actually, I just think it's perfectly obvious that it needs to be done. I can't quite figure it out, maybe it's been discussed at the moment. Work committee and what. paritaprevir So Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, who represents her group, can tell me if there's not been a discussion, what evidence is there that a system plan is not being discussed at the Council, such as a transport plan, a strategy, and other plans. I don't know why they don't do that, but I guess the committee's done it very carefully. If she doesn't make a suggestion for change, the more part would agree that it's good to have it that way. The aim, to me, with the bill is to try to prevent the implementation of, including, the project. in linelines of controversy with rural society on organizational matters and the solution to it is just saying, "You, i.e. Companys, don't have anything to say. The rurals have nothing to say about this. Nor is it allowed to say anything about the elected representatives of the local community and the General Assembly who have been elected to the council for the districts. You're just saying, "It's just a bitch, this democracy, let's get rid of it when it comes to the linework. That's an unacceptable attitude.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u231	Mr. President. Yes, it is sometimes a turning point for the blessed democracy that is to be practiced at times, but in the event of it, many people want to be less baptized in that regard. I can say as a vice president of the professional trade committee that sadly did not become the material discussion that had to be about them at the end of having all the guests we had received. True, we held many meetings and had nothing to do with visitors, but they would have had to take the time to review the reviews and the criticisms presented there had been discussed within the job committee. But she was not discussed, at least not overall, it may well have been that the greater part had some discussion, but it really lacked a reason, and that I think it is critical.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u232	A respectable president. I think it's perfectly obvious. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir said earlier that the problem was confirmed by the failure of the case. It is not enough that the majority talk about the matter between themselves. Things must be considered with the whole committee, for it has been shown in discussions at the council that there is no unity on the subject and that there is no room for reconciliation. So on the second day, we find ourselves in that position to discuss the matter, although the way to settle matters has been repeatedly identified. In itself, I find it interesting how the General Assembly will behave after promising, everyone, with the Senate resolution of the ancient Parliamentary Committee, to change work here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u233	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir It's a Oddný G. A Harðardóttir daughter for her speech. I'd like to agree with her that her environmental client is going to run into this. I'd also like to agree with what she's saying in her case, that it's enough to take in the changes in the bill that are consistent with the comments at the time. Environment and Transport Committee. I agree with her. I'm not quite sure if that's enough, but there's at least a place to start and some basis for further work. I'd like to ask her about her vision in relation to the environment, that the design of a 10-year system plan, about what she says, should be looked at as a activation option in both the innovation and the waiting order of a frame plan. I'd like to ask the senator if she just thinks it's acceptable to look at all these costs and that waiting issues are treated like something that's going to be done just for the future. I'm asking if this isn't something that needs special consideration.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u234	A respectable president. I think it's important to plan these matters. I don't think 10 years is a really long time in this regard. But to use a framework plan that some predicts what will really be activated and what will not, I don't feel that even though activation is a novelty, there are other factors that need to be taken into consideration. The benefits could be seen in a novelty class where the environmental assessment has come and will have been calculated to be acceptable to the activation, etc. But to go to the waiting party, saying that as well as that high proportion of activations will end up in a novelty class and be activated and taken into a plan to be taken seriously, it just doesn't work because the waiting party is an extraction class. There the activation steps are waiting for them to be investigated and questions not answered regarding the final category. There are actually only two classes in a frame plan, that's a brand-new category and a protection party. The other non-regional or protective activation options are only advantages which will be included in either category and answer questions and do further research, both socio- and economicly, etc. A panel plan is not predicting what will be enabled and what will not be. That's what I think is fundamental.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u235	V.E.G. President. Thank you. A senator for this answer. I'm afraid in all things, I agree with what was presented here, that this is not the way to use a frame plan. I just want to ask the senator, because of the discussion that has taken place here today as well as on Tuesday, about the political treatment of this case, if it doesn't feel that, despite our understanding of the situation in which the matter is settled, we are at the foundation of agreeing that the power system is extremely urgent and that, by making certain changes, we will be able to achieve at least some agreement on how the compromise should be done, whether it is not felt that we here at the council can bring us down on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u236	A respectable president. I like a lot of things on this bill, and I think I can back it up. But there are those items that we have considered that need to be fixed. You cannot continue to discuss the matter, you need to postpone the discussion in order to review these points better. I think these events, both Tuesday and then again today, teach us that we need to talk better. Government personnel need to talk more. The Ministers need to speak to members of the Parliament who support the government. It's not only that the government's situation is pointing to the problem, but it's also a government leader. It's like there's a shortage. Why, for example, was yesterday's day not used to land the case? And why was it planned without settling these issues that are clearly resolved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u237	Mr. President. I'd like to get my second talk together a little bit of what I've said before on this matter, but first I'd like to say in general about the issues that concern the environment and nature protection that it is a small purpose of my existence in political affairs to discuss the matter. Of course, I have opinions about all the possible activities of the council, but this may be the seminar where I believe I have both knowledge and opinions that are worth hearing here within the council and that may not trust others as well as myself to present them, if you don't mind me saying so. In other cases, others may be able to give it more attention than I am. So I have both this ideal period, and the last thing I have to do is work within the environment and transport committee. Now it's such a season that I've wondered if I might be thinking out of my mind. You see, during the term, there have been a number of issues about nature, the environment, nature protection and nature protection laws, as well as guidelines. On the contrary, environmental and transport committees have been discussed in the work committee, with special emphasis on their sectoral activities. I mention, for example. A framework of protection and use, I'm referring to the natural pass that might have been very convincing evidence that should be included in an Environment Committee and, in fact, a Economic and Business Committee. Of course, the issue here is a little mixed up. There are many aspects of our environment and how we treat nature and how we return our country to the next generation. Much of it is involved in organizational matters, which are expected to be covered by environmental and transport committees and areas of rural society, which are also under the environment and transport committee. Therefore, there was nothing more than a certain need to look for at least comments from an environmental committee. I would have thought it normal that the case would be done on the environment and transport committee, but it went to the trade committee, and then, of course, it was to look for opinions and not just to be considered but to work the case closely with an environmental and transport committee. It would have been a very gray line, as they say sometimes. Sadly, this was not done, but a review was sought. She was just around the corner, but most of the part of a job committee felt that she had not returned quickly enough, and she took care of the situation without considering the details of the Environment and Transport Committee, although it was really just a question of a few hours between. This is to be resented, especially because we are talking about a case that is in an excellent agreement at the council that needs to go through here. We are talking about legislation that everyone agrees on is necessary, an arrangement that is greatly improved. In such matters, it must be desirable and desirable to try to resolve opinions and changes, to settle matters in a way that spreads political agreements for them. Unfortunately, it has not been successful in this case, and unfortunately, it is debated about it. I don't think there's anything necessary. That's what I think, from all party politics, there's a lot of opinions about the bill. There are a few things in what I hear that most members of the council agree that there is a need to be adjusted, and then the matter should be able to go quite quickly and safely through the council. It is also a case that is important for long - term peace. More important, then, it is that political reconciliation is involved. I'm afraid that hasn't worked. In fact, I'm not yet overwhelmed by hope that it could be achieved, I'm reasonably optimistic that it should be accomplished if men were willing to reconsider the case during this discussion, or by interrupting it, so that it would be a little decent to us how we had been doing this. I want the end of my talk to be close to the points of the bill that I think may be more effective and that would have to be examined. It is true that the European Union of Iceland has pointed out that this is a very decisive way for the rural communities to take a significant measure of self - determination, without sufficient logic. There is also an administration agency, in this case Power Institute, a high power at the expense of selected agents, in fact at the expense of the power of those elected either to local administration or here to the General Assembly. The system is not built in in sufficiently in the public or elected public representatives in the process. Therefore, it would be normal and consistent with references received, e.g. From the Organization, to build into the process some sort of presence of an elected representative. It has been suggested that the arrangement to provide four - year - long terms of the provision for transport, in fact, every two years for four years and to twelve years, is a very good arrangement to ensure the arrival of an ideal representative to determine a process that is largely in the hands of experts. It does, however, ensure a certain democratic approach. Similarly, a strategy might be considered as a concierge proposal for the council. I think there should be some way we can get together on that point. The process needs to be built up to some degree so that a person can get a decision made and can approach it in some way. In addition, there is a need to consider a much wider scope of regulations that the law expects a minister to be allowed to advise on the system plans of a vehicle, information to be part of a system plan, or how to conduct a consultation course with its natural structure, which is very comprehensive and subject to great interpretations, its implementation and follow-up, and m.a. what resources Power Agency has to follow up a system schedule. Then Ministers also have the authority under the bill to set the rules on how to determine the option and the basis and methodology should be used. This is an enormously important, dramatic feature of the bill that I feel is a chance to put everything on the head of a minister. I think there's going to be some democratic coverage and resolution at the council, how this is resolved. Then, in the bill, it is assumed that the strategy will be based on a new system of structure that we should put between parts, that is not necessarily so that the benefits we have entered the colony are undergoing activation. As a matter of fact, I find the risk of building on a novelty class, I feel that it is based on more advanced material or ideas, but to refer to a waiting frame of plan as done in the bill is completely absurd. Of course, such adjustments need to be made. These may be the four points I thought change would greatly improve the bill and hope that more of the employment committee will attack these changes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u238	A respectable president. As we have seen, and in fact, the progress of this discussion has often been made, when it first arrived at the council, the matter was neglected, and in fact it was not completed in an adequate way for the 2nd year. All of us have come to realize, as this discussion has taken place, and the director of the employment committee has also adopted it in a special statement today, that there must be a better look at and a certain way to review it. Now, I think we need to stop, if it's so that we're looking at certain factors, that we stop, that, in this discussion, we're going to have to figure out what's in the pipes, who's the discussion we're talking about, which is likely to explain when men get together on some particular point. It's not good for men to be here discussing the matter the way it was if things are changing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u239	The president is aware that the points leading up to this point are being examined. A senator turned aside. They will likely be explained only when the evening passes, and the president will consider how the discussion will then be held. But as it stands to say, the president believes that the discussion will be continued, but he insists on examining how the discussion will continue when these issues become only clearer to the president.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u240	A respectable president. I want to, in view of the fact that men are trying to figure out a solution for these matters, encourage the highest. To postpone the discussion, I feel that no one can help me finish the rest of the second round. to discuss the matter before we know how the situation is handled with regard to further recovery of the case in a committee following this discussion. It is natural for these main lines to be clear, and there can be some talks to give the committee some of the best at that job. I don't think that on the other hand, it would be easy to continue the discussion, to finish it here because people are talking about some bill that everyone knows isn't available at this point where the greater part of the board of members of another Senate is quite different than the more important part of the management board. So it's kind of blind stuff on our side of the Senate room today, and we're talking about it. It would be better for the discussion to be simply postponed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u241	It may be that the president has not been sufficiently clear. What the president meant is that he knows that these matters are going to be settled in 15 minutes. In view of this, the president had thought that the meeting might continue until the end of the week. 9; then interrupt him and evaluate how the discussion will continue when it is clear. The president simply does not realize exactly where the situation is right now.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u242	A respectable president. I thank the President for the case as long as the day has passed, and I rejoice that the meeting will be interrupted now. 9 so that people can discuss this with each other. I got acquainted here, a newcomer, in a meeting hall earlier today, when the president made it possible for me to find out that another point of view could be found during the discussion by putting a speaker ahead of the rosary. It may be time to do it again now, and even though the executives have chosen by night meeting, they have not participated in the discussion. But I can see why. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson sits in a side room here, and it would certainly be a great help if he was paid at the front of the speaker's list, and he could account for the warning he has given to the committee's opinion of more than that of the Environment Committee. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, chairman of the professional committee, has emphasized the urgency of the situation. paritaprevir More than a part of the Environment Committee is being considered by the Birgir Ármannsson of a year, but this has not yet been mentioned in the question of the priority.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u243	A respectable president. I say it, and I agree with what. A senator who spoke before me that there's always a relief. paritaprevir Birgir of the Ármannsson in the General Assembly. But most of all, I'd like to say that I'm glad I don't interrupt a meeting and consider it. That's what we've been saying all along. There's a lot of trouble in this case. And what I find really bad about the evening meeting, and here we have an evening meeting, is that we are discussing a case that hopefully will change, so some material discussion is somehow taking place on a topic that was not ready. Now, see if it can be improved, and I'm glad, but it's a bad thing to continue to spend speech lessons in the matter of abuse. So I reiterate the criticism I made today to the plan to have a night meeting, although a respectable president has made it clear that there will be an interruption in 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u244	Mr. President. I'm glad there's a deal search coming up. It's sort of been clear, I think, all the time, it might be a matter of taking a deep breath, looking into the eyes and finding some conclusion, and a very pleasant thing to do with it, and I hope it works well. But I want them to feel the same way that there's a bit of play if we're to continue talking about the bill as it is now when everybody knows it's making some changes. It's kind of just a comedy, not a real game.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u245	A respectable president. I thank the President for explaining that there is a recession at the conference. 9. I think it's very important, and I think everyone sees it, both members of the council, and the rest of the people watching here, that it's a little awkward to be here having a discussion about something that's certainly in the process of turning into something else. And what does this talk involve? Besides that, the talk period is the same in the 2nd. the first talk is 20 minutes, the next 10 and then 5 minutes after that, so you're finishing speeches for something that's already out - of - date. What, then, is it that humans are to approach? It is also a matter of this fairness. Is it reasonable to expect people to spend their part of a talk period on something that is no longer an appetizer, so to speak, which is no longer the real matter that is conceived if something comes out of the approved search that is in the pipeline?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u246	The president responded well to the indications or requests to pause here while men are realizing the situation. They won't be clear until the clock. 9. The president believes it is very fair what he proposes and doesn't want it to be. Congress officials are now walking on the program by trying to delay the deadline. 9 with discussions about the President's conference board when the president responded so favorably. Senators for taking this brief break.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u247	A respectable president. I just wanted to take it off at the top of the world. Mr President, my intention is not to delay the time until tomorrow. 9 Rather, I was going to respond primarily to encouragement. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar to the oar. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of Aargis, who is in the side hall, came here to help us and to understand the nature of the warning he made with another very good opinion of more parts of the environment and transport committees that I fully agree that most of them, if not altogether. I agree with what. paritaprevir The Katrín Jacobs Jakobsdóttir mentioned earlier is, of course, that Birgir the Year's Ármannsson on the platform at any time, and not just that, it is fine and waste to him in the platform so that I strongly encourage him to come and help us understand the discussion so that she can continue materially as the president has requested.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u248	A respectable president. As we have seen, this matter has finally begun to get foged up in the right direction. Of course, even though we do not yet know what it will be like because we are not discussing the matter materially, that will happen afterward. 9. Until then, it may be only natural for me to sum up what we have been most critical of the matter and not just us, not only the smaller part of a council but also the environmental and transport committee as it lies, both the more administrative and the smaller parts of the council, as well as a lot of non-communicators who will have to work with the legislation. When people who are going to have to cooperate with legislation, and are accustomed to working with comparable legislation, they give as much warning as they do in this matter, the challenge of action is immense when such committees are returned. Hence, it must be a small lesson for us in how this matter is brought in, that the committee's opinion of the matter is as short as it really is, ignoring factors that are highly critical. It may well be, as I have previously said, that there are grammatical reasons why the committees decide not to accept or decide to do certain forms of change, but they need to support the conclusions in the committee's opinion. What matters to me is that when such strong comments are made about things that are not political issues but directly reverses that institutions that are to be involved with legislation feel that there are doubting games, such as lawsuits, which charges, the bill is not clear enough in this regard, they should pause and try to explain it, even if only in committees, so that they do not initiate laws that immediately question how to work with them. This is one of the factors we have criticized, that we have not put forth effort to pass through the many controversial reports and to try to answer grammatically the points that are most critical. If we continue our charges, I would like to give an example of what is unclear there. The review of the Agency, which makes up the issue because they have to work with it, points out well. There is uncertainty about how to handle issues that arise. It says that the legislatures are considered to be a administrative decision according to 2 mg. Thirty-seven. Electrical law is the decisions of the Energy Agency involved in the granting of the Court of Justice for the Environment and Resources Commission, but in 3.mg. The same articles state that the European Commission Decisions of the Energy Agency, which may not be charged with the decision-making committee or to the EC Committee of Electric Energy, are charged with the minister's charges. The Agency is well reviewed with questions about the nature of the decision made by the Power Agency on the agreed strategy and on whether it is accountable to the Commission of Environment and Resources, to the Commission of Electricity or Ministers. Their comments are then considered in a fine way. I'm not aware that after going over this and after going over the bill which way you're going. Such uncertainty makes it necessary for a person to pause and review it carefully and at least try to explain to the members of the committee, also an explanation for the legal intention of the lawgiver in this case. This is one of the things that we've criticized, and I can't hear better than any human would be willing to take a good look at us. Then there's the environmental point. Several locations in the bill will discuss the basis for a system plan, and no environmental considerations will be taken into account. However, we do know that one of the aims of electronic energy law is to take into account the environmental issues and that it also takes place in this legislation. It is also strange to set off such a matter, which is largely environmental, without any mention of any environmental principle as a basis for decision making and the work taking place. This point we need to consider carefully, and I can't see that anyone's against doing it, but I think that even if we disagree on how far people should go, however, we want to look at the environmental issues when making decisions like these, no matter where people are going. A respectable president. In this regard, I feel that there's a problem with the idea that in the bill it's being discussed in 3 mg. 2.g. what should be the basis for a system plan, and in the article that it should be based on practical scenarios for the development of electricity production, electricity use, market development, etc. The report on this article describes that much of the provision of a system plan should make a practical plan and then be made up of grounds that could be responsible for such a strategy. There's a man in my opinion of a very slippery ice, because there they expect and collect for activation in a supply and a waiting category of protection and energy efficiency programmes. It's totally impossible to do so, in my opinion, because there isn't any man who knows where a waiting option will end. A waiting party is no more than a category of costs, protection options, or activation options, which will be examined to determine where they live. There can hardly be a basis for a realistic development or a basis for a practical plan to build, for example, on a waiting group. The novelty Party may get a little closer, but it won't, because even if something has come into the colony, it has not been granted permission to leave. Rather, it can be the benefits of the so - called license team, which can result in the activation process or not. So we give it a very large question mark. Because time flies away from me, I'd like to finally mention that one of the big things we've put in advance is how difficult it is for the rural communities in the bill, and they actually set up against a wall from day one in this matter. We have all kinds of role models in legislation on our own community rights. That's done in a country-wide law of law, but there's still some fairness in it. It's not done here. In view of the fact that we have models in order to form transport legislation and also in the legislation on the protection and use framework, and in either case, it is not as difficult as here. Therefore, my opinion must carefully review the creation that has been used for the communication between state and rural society in connection with a policy framework and the transport program. We will be very careful about whether we can use them as role models in this legislation. It will, in my opinion, create a much more healthy perspective and wholesome communication between parties in this field.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u249	V.E.G. President. I'll explain to the State Department's Committee members due to a 340 environmental issue. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by the Department of State by Bryndís Kjartansdóttir, Kjartan Ingvarsson of the Environment and Resource Ministry, and Dagmar Sigurðardóttir of the State. The committee received one report from the Government. A committee article explains how the matter is being handled. This is a confirmation of the decision made by the joint EEA committee since October 2013 and regarding the use of clean and energy efficient road transport vehicles. The article later states, with the permission of a president: The directive aims to promote the market for clean and efficient vehicles. It is estimated that the increased demand for such vehicles will encourage the car industry to invest in and develop such vehicles. The directive states that people under the EU public purchase directives should take into account energy efficiency and environmental impacts in buying road vehicles for road transport. These include energy consumption as well as carbon dioxide emissions and other certain pollutants. The directive's requirements can be met in two ways by specifying energy and environmental factors for shopping and, on the other hand, by adding requirements for energy consumption and environmental impacts into the shopping process. In general, the directive applies only to shopping that exceed the EU budgets for public purchases. Yet, the government is permitted to provide a lower limit for shopping related to public transport on trains and roads. The implementation of the directive calls for a change in the law of No. 70/2012, on climate issues, and have Environment and Resource Minister already submitted such a modification bill. Subsequently, the procedure is expected to be implemented in the form of a Regulation. The Commission reviewed the current public shopping law, No. 84/2007, require general attention to environmental factors in public shopping. However, the induction will further sharpen that obligation. The directive does not require that Member States be monitored for the implementation of the directive's directive. The cost of induction depends on the extent of monitoring and how it will be implemented. At the end, the Commission will highlight the practical approach to these topics, but for the implementation of the directive's directive into its introduction it will, of course, be discussed when this bill comes for further treatment at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u250	V.E.G. President. I give an explanation for the State Department's Committee of State Affairs on the matter of the Parliamentary decision under discussion. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by a representative of the State Department and the Environment Ministry. The case was given a review, but no comments were received from the sources that were given the option to make comments. The committee's opinion clearly explains the point. This is primarily a surveillance of illegal woodcuts and trades with timber products originating from illegal activities. They are expected to monitor the companies who post timbers and timber products and are aimed at making the traceability of such products easier. So I testify in the Commission's opinion there, by permission of the president: ▪ The aim of the regulations is to stem illegal woodcuts and trades. There is a ban on the market of such timber and timber within the European Economic Area. A special precautionary system will be used when a product is first marketed in the EEA to prevent illegally carved timbers or timber products from being marketed. In that case, companies selling timbers and timber products are made to ensure the traceability of the product. The National Competent Authority shall be agreed to observe that the regulations of the regulations are followed. In that case, the state should also ensure that its violations are effective. The collection of the bill at the current legislation panel is aimed to provide up-to-date improvements for the implementation of the products in the format of Regulation. The Commission reviewed that the rules will most likely affect the producers of timber and timber, immigrants, distributors, and other operators involved in the sale of timber and timber. Drivers will be exposed to costs on behalf of their duty in order to establish the dependability of certain procedures for the launch of timber and timber. In addition, actions lead to increased projects for the public in the form of observation. The precise cost assessment of all factors is to be prepared for the introduction of a bill and to be discussed with stakeholders. It will lead to consumers being better informed about the origin of the goods they buy, but it is important that this does not result in an unscrupulous rise in prices. Hence, the Commission stresses that cost will be kept to a minimum as far as possible in the implementation of commitments in this country. Under this view, the following representatives of the Foreign Affairs Committee, as well as the following: Ásmundur Einar Daðason, Vilmur Bjarnason, Elín Hirst, Frosti Sigurjónsson, daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir, Ottir Proppé, and Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunnsdot.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u251	A respectable president. I'm not going to extend this discussion very much, but I'd like to mention, at times, I feel that the conference at the Council is about us introducing some kind of EEA that doesn't necessarily involve our interests, that this is an excellent example of construction, not just of Iceland, but of everything, and is a very important example when international cooperation is needed. This design is about preventing an illegal woodcut, which is an enormous problem, especially at the halo, in the rainforests there. It is an attempt to avoid laws and regulations to cut timbers with the related consequences for life, for those living there, indigenous groups, except, of course, the long - term effects on climates here on earth. In such matters, we need international cooperation, and although we do not feel that this is a great example of something that seems to be not particularly relevant to us at the beginning but that if the nations of the world come together, they can avoid things like illegal forestry that have all the bad consequences I mentioned in very short terms. I'm not going to have many words about this, but I'd like to take this opportunity and remind you that we will discuss more about the negative effects of the EEA in this room, but they also contain positive effects within the international cooperation. I just wanted to use this opportunity to remember it, and that's not least in the environment.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u252	V.E.G. President. I'm here to speak to a member of the Committee to discuss a bill to correct the changing law on the Schengen information system in Iceland. I'm not a chronicist. I'm a dog. paritaprevir Poor Anna Sævarsdóttir, but she's gone, so I'm gonna relieve her here. This is the opinion of more of the General and Education Committee. The case was discussed on the committee, and there was a meeting of representatives from the State Department of the Interior, as well as from the State Marshal's Office, and a review was received from that office. The objective of the bill is to introduce three Schengen types that are thought to be necessary for Iceland to meet the international commitments it will achieve by participating in the Schengen Community. In addition, there are two proposed changes to the surveillance role of Peritoneal protection due to registration of the Schengen information system. The changes described above are due to the implementation of the new generation of Schengen information system. These include increasing numbers of information that can be recorded into the system and the major innovations include registration of fingerprints and images of the postmortem individuals as well as registration of European arrest warrants in cases where such arrest warrants have been issued by a competent authority in the Schyngen countries. This means that there will be a link between two or more files in the system which will be allowed to be established. This matter was widely discussed in the Committee, and people polled whether they went too far in connection with registration. Among other things, the proposal is included in the obligation of the State Marshal to respond immediately to the comments and instructions of the Peritoneal Protection and no later than three months if comments are received regarding registration or payment of information on the registry. The aim of the change in the law is to trust in the role of state police officials as well as the decisions made by the State Marshals. There was a review of state police director's surveillance role. One statement came to the fore that Persian protection was not a higher authority against the governor of the state, in the sense of administrative law, and therefore it would be difficult to keep this form in place. According to the state police chief, it would be undisputed that the Ministry of Internal Affairs was the superior government to the governor and that it was reasonable that the state police authorities' decisions brought charges against it rather than to Pernon protection. The majority of the committee points out that 5. The bill is created because there is a shortage of Persian protection clearance to bring about needed improvements because of the better management of the Schengen Information System, as well as the lack of Peritoneal protection to make binding decisions in this regard. The majority claim that with the bill, there is no change in the acceptable political order that decisions made by the lower governments are admissible to the government, such as 26. Government law. With a 5. The bill stipulates the implementation of Persian surveillance protection of personal protection and the handling of personal information, which, among other things, determines that the Perone Protection of a Controversy may be involved in the implementation of personal information in Iceland. The decision had to be maintained by the Commission, and it stressed strongly that Perone Protection was involved in the case and when individuals received complaints about the system registrations, they could sue it to Perone Protection on certain factors. They're talking about 13,◯15. par. The State Department of State Protection Act, but it wouldn't exactly go to the State Department. However, it is reserved in this connection that Iceland has twice been made aware of the arrangement that the proposed decisions are under current legal requirements for the Ministry of State rather than the Federal Protection. The comments were made by the Scientific Monitoring Committee on the Schengen Team following the evaluations both in 2005 and in 2011. As a result of the participation in the Schengen Team, Iceland is obliged to validate the role of Peritoneal Protection as suggested by the bill. It is a complete conclusion that humans choose to comply with the indication and, of course, the legal protection that Perone Protection can address the issues of individuals involved in the registration of them into this system. Otherwise, it is suggested that the bill be accepted unchanged. Under these publications. Councilman Brá Konráðsdóttir Kársdósdóttir, chairman of the Committee, Líneik Sævarsdóttir Saevarsdótttir, author of the Committee opinion, Páll Valur Björnsson, Arnardóttir Lara Arnardótir, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir, Olsen Gunnarsdóttir, Vilmiramámur Árnason, and who stands here, Guðbjartur Hannesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u253	V.E.G. President. I present a report from the Northern Council of Iceland on Norwegian cooperation before 2014. The main issues under consideration in the Northern Council in 2014 were sustainable use of natural resources and foreign, defense and security. Sweden took the lead during the year, and the president of the council was Karin Åström, from January to September 2014, and Hans Wallmark from October through December. Hans Wallmark was vice president from January to September 2014, and Phia Andersson was vice president from October to December 2014. Sustainable use of natural resources was focused on the spring council meeting of the Northern Country Council in Akureyri in April 2014. Specific discussions were made on the topic and presented with the Norwegian Minister on sustainable use of natural resources and on the Norwegian Minister's position in the fishing debates on sild and macroil. Foreign, protective, and community security and security were being discussed at the Northern Council meeting in April of Akureyri, where a resolution was adopted for Ukraine and at the Council Meeting in October Stockholm was a key factor in Ukraine, the Middle East, and the north. At that time, Thorvald of Stoltenberg, author of this report, was a guest in a special discussion of safety at the Council of the Northern Council of Stockholm. The National Council of Iceland, appointed seven members of the Council of England, is chairman of Hödddjörg Höskuldur of the House of Congress, Elín Hirst and Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir of the Council of Independence, Helgi Hjörvar of the United States Group, Jóhanna Sigmundsdóttir Sigmundsdsdóttir, Róbert Marshall of Bjartri's Future, and Steigur J. Sigfússon from the left movement, a green offer. In October 2014, however, the change took place in the state of Guðjón Hannesson of the United States Congress. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar, who became a replacement instead of a horse. paritaprevir The Guðbjörtur son of Hannesson. In 2014, the secretary of Iceland was an international secretary to Lárus Valgarðsson. At the Council of the Northern Council, held during the Oslo days 28 ◯31. October 2014, a committee and office for the 2015 work year was elected. A commission from the Northern Council on behalf of Iceland was ordered to do so. The members Höskuldur the Höthlún Þórhallsson and Hjörvar were elected by the Presidency Committee of Valgerður, Gunnarsdóttir of Culture and Education, and Board of Education, Elín Hirst of the Civil and Network Committee, Róbert Marshall of the Environment and Natural Resources Committee, Stetggrim Sigfússon Sigfuelson of the Economic and Business Committee, and World Commission and Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir. Right away. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannesson became the nobler instead of the common man. paritaprevir Helgi Hjörvar sat on the Presidency Committee. The Northern Council of Iceland met 11 times this year. Meetings and meetings of the Northern Council were prepared and discussed specific matters for the treatment of committees and staff groups of the Governing Body. Other matters were also discussed in the work field of the Committee. Follow-up of the Council of Northern Ireland was scheduled in January and March. The Iceland Department then proposed a proposal for action on cooperation with Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden on the funding of environmental saving equipment in the north. A proposal was made on the basis of Council of the Northern Land No. 4/2012 adopted at the spring meeting of the Council on March 23, 2012, at the General Assembly. In February and March, journalists of the 2014 Council of Northern America were on the program. Was there assigned to a number of people I'm not going to list here. Eygló Harðardóttir, a minister of the Norse collaborator, was a guest at Iceland's meeting in April and October during the conference of the Northern Council of the Year. In September, there was an appointment for president and vice president of the Council of Northern America. The nominee was proposed. Congressmen Höskuldur and Steingrímur J. Sigfússon, on the other hand, to the head of the Council of the Northern Country in 2015. The favors were voted and got what. paritaprevir And Þórhallsson's five votes in the Iceland Department and what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon two votes. A proposal to nominate was made. paritaprevir Guðbjartur Hannesson, vice president of the Council of the Northern Country of 2015, was elected to vote for it and received five votes and two sat by. At that time, Iceland's executive plan, in the 2015 Council of the North, and its preparation for the Iceland Department program in November. The Northern Council met four times in 2014, January and September, and in April and October, in connection with a meeting of the council. Meetings were discussed and agreed on the matters agreed for the Council of Northern Congress in April and October or for the Presidency Committee between Parliaments. In Copenhagen, for example, the Council of Northern Ireland held a meeting of 1,222. January and attended the National Council of Iceland, such as the rest of the Council of Northern Ireland. The annual summit of the Presidency Committee with the Presidency Committee of the Baltic Council was held in connection with the January Summit. A key subject on the program was the cooperation plan of the Council of the Northern Nations and the 2014 ◯2015 Baltic Council, which was adopted at the meeting. In particular, the focus of the programme was on harmonization with the European Union, NB8 Wise Men Report, by Birkavs and Søren Gade, North-End, Mansal, White-Russia, and Ukraine issues. President of the Council of the North, Karin Åström, and president of the Baltic Council, Laine Randjärv, condemned the meeting of force and violence in a Affunyard to distribute Protestants, who recently declared support for Ukraine's adaptation to the European Union. A link between the Council of the North and the European Union was discussed in the Presidency Committee and professional committees. There was a report published by Andrea Karlsson with 28 proposals to improve the network between the Council of the North and the European Parliament, especially with the Norwegian European Parliament. The report is divided into three categories; presentation and information to the National Council, the EU in the daily activities of the Council and the EU in the work of committees of the Council. Following the introduction, the Committee's professional committees will give reviews of the report and the Presidency Committee will continue to comment on it at the next meeting of the Committee. The Environment and Nature Resource Committee and the Economic and Business Committee together covered two Parliamentary proposals. One about fish farming in the circulation systems, where guests in the conference were Per Bovbjerg of the Danish Technologies University, Danmarks Takniske Universalitet ▪ DTU, and Jesper Heldbo, who is in charge of the reorganization site. However, a smart distribution system for electricity was discussed in which countries aim to achieve basic rules, standards and technology requirements to ensure the internal market for consumers and manufacturers in the North countries and to adopt inter-norcial rules and measures in the future in Europe. Civil and consumer committees supplied a panel-based proposal for a review of the Norwegian double-folding agreement. According to a committee study, the Commission proposed direct recommendations to the Norwegian Ministers to initiate a review of a treaties between the Northern countries in order to avoid double taxation in terms of income and possessions. Civil and consumer committees also supplied a committee's proposal for the quality of equality and equality in play and basic schools. The Council of Iceland was held at the conference of January, with new Council directors of the Northern Country Council, Britt Bohlin, and with advisers of the European Commission, Tina Bostrup, secretary of the prime committee, and Tryggvi Felixson, secretary of the Environment and Natural Resource Committee. Iceland's department also met with representatives of the Norwegian Minister's Office, Kenneth Broman of the Office and Emelie Barbou des Places Advisor, as well as the director of the Norwegian Culture Fund, Karen Bue. April and spring council meeting in Akureyri had special emphasis on the sustainable use of natural resources and was held on April 8. On the part of the Council of Northern Iceland, this meeting was held by surprise. Councilmen Höskuldur Þórhallsson, chairman of Chairman Valgerður Gunnarsdóttir, Brenhildur St. Pétursdóttir's daughter, who is an assistant in the Iceland Department, Elín Hirst, Hjörvar, Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir and Steig Sigfússon Sigfugurson. The main issues on the program were the political situation in Ukraine, the Report of the Norwegian Minister on sustainable use of natural resources, the Report of the Norwegian Minister's status on the fishing issues on sild and macroil, and the rights of the remuneration. Karin Åström, president of the Council of the North, explained how the Council of Northern America reacted to events in Ukraine. It attributed that on January 22, she and the president of the Baltic Council, Laine Randjärv, condemned the use of power and violence in the Stesun Park and that she and the vice president of the Northern Council, Hans Wallmark, had issued a statement on March 12. where Russian authorities were challenged to make arrangements to reduce tension in Ukraine, as well as for the proposed visit of members of the Northern Council to Murmansk to be postponed for an indefinite period of time and that she and the vice president had met with representatives of the National Council of the Baltic and Poland, as well as with representatives of the Council of the Baltic Council of the Council of the United States of New York, 20,◯24. March to show support for the prevailing tension conditions in Ukraine Karin Åström stressed that under the present circumstances, unique and historical, there is a northern legalist for democracy, open societies, and transparency. The panels of the Council of Northern America likewise agreed. On behalf of Iceland, it took a turn. paritaprevir Elín Hirst is involved in the discussion. She told the events there, and Russia's actions certainly come in because of the wish of northern countries to promote the spread of democracy. She believed that the northern countries should stand together and use every opportunity to promote their protests because of the insurrection of Cromra, Russia, and said that they would like to say something even more strongly than what was done in the declaration. Sigurður Ingi Jóhannsson, chief. The Environment and Resource Minister explained the work of the Norwegian Minister to promote the sustainable use of natural resources. He said that work is important both in fishing roads and in fish farms as well as in agriculture and forest uses, as well as in developing self-sustaining within any category of the Ministers of Ministers. Further, the Ministers explained the policies and conferences of the Commission on sustainable use of natural resources and emphasised it in the Iceland's Pre-President Program for 2014, including the Norwegian Organism Programme. Hv. paritaprevir Valgerður's Gunnarsdóttir's choice was a spokesman for the right category of the Council of the Northland for the discussion of sustainable use of natural resources. It said that sustainability would be very important to the resources and sources and that it would be necessary for the nations to get together to use nature in a way that would benefit and satisfaction all, and that nature and its resources could be returned to their offspring so that they would benefit from the same living people. She said that a group of right persons thought that it would be best done by the government and society and individuals and that economic growth and sustainability could be kept in hand if technology and technology were to be replaced in a way that resources would not be controlled so that resources would be damaged. Hv. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon participated in the debate over the fishing debates and gave the EU, Norway and the Faeroe Islands three - sided agreement since March. Based on overfishing and the need for more information to deal with the current situation; more research and more scientific data would be needed. A few discussions were made regarding the proposal of a group of officers and groups of left socialists and greens on increasing emphasis on the rights of the worker, that the National Council directed recommendations to the National Ministers Committee to hold a conference to shed light on the grounds and experience of affairs related to the rights of pay people and social subsidies. The proposal had been taken from a Economic and Business Committee by the majority of the U.S.A. that the Council of Northern Ireland did not have a legal case and a minority list of how to interpret the proposal. Embraced was a vote on the name of the greater part, and it was adopted by 35 votes against 32, whereas one sat by. Then, in Finland, Tampere, France, saw an September meeting of the Council of Northern Ireland. September. These were the subjects that had been presented for discussion with committees. Then, in Stockholm, the Council of 66th was held at the Council of the North. October. The main issues on the program were the headquarters of the Norwegian Prime Minister and the directors of foreign, security and defences, administrative and environmental barriers, and community and health issues. The National Prime Minister's Conference and the Management Board for Norse Cooperation discussed this time in the future on the basis of education, adaptation, and employment market. The prime minister, Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunollsson, told the discussion that no less important cooperation is now at the beginning of the 21st century, during which the Council of Northern Congress was established after World War II. It would have to be better in the future to achieve united international goals by introducing the North countries as attractive markets and the common and positive concept of "nordonts wrote in the minds of people. " Government barriers between the Northern States were on the program in which Kristina Persson, associate minister of Sweden, reported a report on their work against them and, in particular, the work of the Council of Government at the head of the Siv Friðleifsdóttir's daughter this year, the head of Iceland's year in the Norwegian Minister. A great celebration was held in connection with the Council of Northern America in Stockholm, which as a custom was given the prize of the Council of Northern America. This time the Finnish author Kjell Westö, for her novel Hägring 38, in his argument supported a judicial committee, made a strong impression on the atmosphere at times in the history of Finland, which also extends its fragrance to modern times. This time the Danish composer Simon Steen-Andersen-Andersen was won by the Council of Northern England, which was for the work of the Black Box Music. This time, the National Council's Natural and Environmental Prize was won by Reykjavíkurburg, the winner of 2013 was Juul Selina, who gave the award. We cannot be overlooked by the filmkeepers of the Northern Country Council, they were made by the Icelandic film Horse in us, produced by Friðrik Þór Friðiksson of the Vendor og Benedikt Erlingsson, director and writer. I suggest that this report be referred to the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u254	V.E.G. President. I have a report from Iceland at the Western Council, but I'm leading the Iceland Department. With me in the league sitting low. Vigdís Hauksdóttir, vice president of the Iceland Department, was the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir until September 9, 2014, when Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir, took her place. Also sit in the council of Oddný G.; Harðardóttir, Páll Valur Björnsson, and Jóhann Páll the son of Pálsson, who comes from the advance. It may be said that much has been involved in the Western Council during the past year. But what was mainly focused on this year was a report that was agreed to do at a annual meeting of the Council in Greenland in the autumn of 2013 regarding the north. We received scholar Egill Þór Níelsson, who works at the Chinese stupidity Institute, to work for us a report that has identified the common interests of the three countries, Iceland, Greenland and the Faeroe Islands in the north, and this was particularly about economic interests. When the report was launched that the Council's theme conference in January 2014 would deal with this, we had a generous theme conference in Sandey, Faeroe, where the report was reviewed. At the same time, a annual meeting of the Council met the Western Council with foreign advisers of the three countries, which discussed the report. Clearly, though the countries have a separate heading for northern affairs, it is advisable to aim for a common policy, at least in the areas where we share a common interest. This meeting with the U.S. Foreign Legions was accompanied by the annual meeting of the Western Council in the fall of Iceland, in September, if I recall correctly. The Western Council also held a seminar on the Arctic Circle in Harpa in October, a major convention on the North Sea. We had a whole seminar where we covered the Western cooperation in the North, and it can be said that it was extremely informative to participate in that work, good discussion as well as a good network that the Western Council helped to create there. In fact, what is really the focus of the Western policy and what happened this year is that we applied for an audience at the North Pole in August. and will be drawn up for a decision on how that application will depend on. Only two conclusions were adopted at the annual meeting of the Western Council, and both have been submitted here at the council, recommended, and are now for treatment. State Department. The first is the request that members of the Council be asked to the secretary of the countries, as is known in the Northern Council, to reduce emissions of sulphur from ships in situations where pollution occurs due to the use of black oil. Then two resolutions were adopted at the annual meeting. In the first, the government of Iceland and the Faeroe Islands were encouraged to support the efforts of Greenland to gain recognition as a coastal country and to get part of coastal negotiations for emerging fish on an equal basis. In the second, the right of the Western countries was to use all the living sea resources of the ocean in a sustainable way emphasized by a special reference to the whale and seal fishing, but the coverage of the whale and trade industry has long taken a considerable share in the Western American Council's study of the council's meetings. The Western Council's Iceland Department has made a powerful contribution to the Western Council's discovery and thank you very much for cooperating with all of them. Senators sitting in the league now. But in addition to the two main meetings of the Council, where all the branches are involved, i.e. The theme conference held in Sandey, Faeroe Islands, and then the annual meeting held in the Western Islands, met the Western Presidency Committee with the European Parliament, which is a annual meeting, a meeting of meetings, where it is being conducted. That meeting took place last year, March 28, in the Faeroe Islands, and it can be said that it was a fun meeting, since it was at the time when the Faeroes had just made a deal with the European Union and left Iceland behind, so it was a lively discussion. However, the main agenda for the meeting itself protected the import of seal products, of course the Arctic, and of the seabed. However, the agreement between the Faeroe Islands, Norway, and the European Union on mackerel fishing took a big part in that meeting. The one standing here was the head of the Western Council in 2014 until its annual meeting in the Western Islands in the fall. But we have always stressed that the better the three nations meet, the more effective we will be. And there is the clear key in this Western partnership, that to make the voice of the three countries sound in the great world, we are stronger together. When the Western Council was founded, it was in the form of the Western Council of Parliament, established in Nuuk, September 1985. So it is clear that this year is the year of the birthday. It is a 30-year anniversary in the fall and year's activities, in the current year - so that we look only to the future - it will look forward - and it will be exciting to report this year on the number of events that will take place in the year and that will be determined. The chairman of the council is Senator Bill Justinussen of the Faeroe Islands. V.E.G. President. I'm not going to keep it all the further, I hope that the report will be referred to the State Department.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u255	Madam President. Many things are intriguing in this report, which deals with the realms and political fields that I have a measure of interest in. It shows up, like a dog. In his background here, a senator noted that the three Western countries had a common heading for the north. The report states that a meeting in Greenland last January was scheduled to set up a special Arctic committee that would be involved in preparing a common policy across the region. Madam President. It is quite an improvement in the Arctic policy for three countries. The National Parliament has adopted a special Arctic policy that was adopted here with all terms paid and I think they're alone. I wondered how and what commission is being made to make a committee that is not reported in this report, nor is it clear in speech. A senator, for example, had some special connections with the General. Is it, then, that one of the committees is building a policy that the Icelandic Parliament is not involved? In what way should this course be established when it comes to it? I'd like to follow this, though. A senator may not be able to explain this, a comment given in the report. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who will have informed them at a meeting of the council that the Icelandic government was the only of the three who would have dropped taxes on people who live in remote areas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I may not have been here long enough, but I don't know what you're talking about. [[The president calls.]] I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. The chairman of the council can explain this to me.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u256	V.E.G. President. Now, it is not the Western Council's job to shape the foreign policy of the three countries. However, we decided to attack this report that I referred to. From that report, we are going to do more and more suggestions, which will be introduced into the local State Department of the three countries. So this work, and this committee, which has now been completed, is required of each member of the departments to appoint his own husband, will begin this month in March. What the results will be, the time will be the only one to reveal. But as I'm saying, it's the Western Council's introduction to the governments that are given up in this. Regarding unique recommendations or comments made by individual senators, as quoted above, there is no qualification. A member of the council is expected to point out a talk. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, Council of the North, I imagine that's what he's referring to. I simply have to say that I wasn't there, so I can't explain it. Wait a minute. A senator to direct his questions to that end. I am not trying to interpret the words of others who are not here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u257	Madam President. Thank you. A senator for counseling me on this, but I'm going to let myself not accept that advice. Hv. A senator is responsible for this report. It recommends her, and I suppose she can explain the words in it, whether they have any confirmation of reality. Then I'm going to allow myself to seriously question whether the Western Council and the Council Committee have any authority to sit down, appoint a committee to agree with a heading around the North, which is to refer to the council. Is it not so that these are members of this council sitting there - they are not to be consulted, contacted, established by a committee as law to shape a position in foreign affairs for the General Assembly of Iceland? Neither in the report nor in the speech at any time. A senator, nor in opposition to it, points out that in some way a consultation should be made. The Council's Foreign Affairs Committee. So I'd like to express myself totally opposed to this, as well as to express my view of the matter. Senators sitting there on our behalf have no authority to do this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u258	V.E.G. President. I simply refer to the role of the Western Council. This is shown on page 22. 2, it is generally explained what the Western Council represents and what its role is. Its role, among other things, is to promote the cooperation of the governments and the Western National Governments on important matters. We take up the issues that we feel are important. We adopt the issues that we think the three countries can work together and stand stronger together. Such work is then referred in a specific way, as it were. A senator knows well, ends a senator, enters the council, and we also sit on meetings with counsellors. That's been the battle of the Western Council for a long time, and, I think I can say, well. paritaprevir Acquirers of Skarphéðinsson's son, such meeting with the three foreign advisers, will be regular and steady because it is important. You're right about what you're doing. A senator to the Western Council as such is not the task of molding the three countries' foreign policy. Nevertheless, it is our job to direct the recommendations, conclusions, and opinions we make at meetings with counsellors, to the governments, and to the three Parliaments. That's how it works. Let's just see what the results of this job are. The report that scholar Egill Þór Níelsson, whom I referred to in my speech earlier, has worked for us is the basis for maping the areas where national interests are most likely to take place together. Now it may be that the former minister of foreign affairs thinks the Western Council is making itself a little big, sounds like it's coming out of nowhere. Senator. Nevertheless, it is clear that at their annual meeting for this work, the Western Council agreed, and there were no protests from any of the three divisions of the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u259	Madam President. I will make this confession right at the beginning of my speech that I am not in any mood to commend the president of the Western Council today, but I would like to say that the Western Council has developed in a positive way in recent years. I believe there are many things that have taken place in recent years that have greatly benefited the nations. I agree, too, that the cooperation of these three nations depends on spending time with prisoners. We are neighboring nations, and we work together in many ways. I've particularly felt that we would have to do better if we could get the strings that we've got the Faeroe Islands through the Hoyví deal. That's the biggest deal we've ever made, Icelanders, i.e. He is the most widely known person in the area of vacation stores. I also believe that doing what can be done to promote a vacation store in Greenland. There are many reasons for this. Icelanders would benefit from that many benefits, as well as the Greenlands. I believe that free trade between countries may be the best way to tie as the strongest nerves between them. That is why I could give a considerable talk about how I seem to be developing that language. It seems to me they're not developing very well. I notice that the emphasis on the report, and apparently on this matter, is that we want the Greenlandians to become members of the Hoyví agreement. I'm sure that's what I'm gonna do. A senator and chairman of the Council, who is well - acquainted in Greenland, will surely agree that in the Greenlandic and Greenlandic regime, there is no less interest in trying to connect with the free trades of Iceland and after the experiences of the two nations, Iceland and the Faeroe Islands, through the Hoyvík Convention. That is why in itself is an excellent argument. Greenlanders believe that when they take the first step in that direction, it may be quite a bite to swallow, but it has been going on for some time. It was in the latter part of the last terms, and it has been observed in various ways. For example, when Aleqa Hammond, who was then the greatest man and woman in Greenland, arrived here last year. This is simply discussed in the Green American Parliament. So you might ask, " Why is this the way in which the body's emphasis is on doing so? ' I don't think anyone can make it anymore. I think it would be much better for the president of the Western Council to listen to what the Greenlands say -- which I think it has done now, I'll do it in my face. A senator - and we should work in that direction. I believe that if the Greenlands want to take up a two-sided vacation deal with us, for example, we should do it, we have nothing to push them into the Hoyevík deal. In any case, their reasoning is clear on their part. They want to take it slow. I believe the Western Council should then consider whether it could be paid in some way rather than waiting for them to become members of the Hoyevík Convention. I don't think it will be. But I think it's important for Iceland's interests that we don't get stuck in it, because I think we need a vacation deal with them. With regard to the comments I asked about, it may not be too fair for me to ask why. A senator on top of them, i.e. The comment is what it is. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir, who is once chairman of the Western Council, and she is likely to be responsible for these matters by prehistoric history. So it's perfectly normal for me to ask her how it is said by an Icelandic senator of foreign meetings where it is apparently dressed, I don't say stolen feathers, but at least ready. It's her responsibility that's sitting in the hall, and nothing else, that it should happen to the Council. If this is wrong, I feel that in some way it should be confirmed by the council on the part of the council. It's so simple. It doesn't mean anything, either for what? A senator or anyone else, laying before the council documents that cannot resist. And documents submitted to the council for the responsibility of the directors or committees must pass through some kind of filter. It must be, at least, when it comes to this sort of statement, that they are examined, and that is a responsibility. A senator, nothing else. With regard to the joint policies of the three Western nations, as it were. A senator seems to stand for, then I reiterate what I said before that I find it very convenient, to say no more, to the point. A senator should take the initiative to represent policy development in a very important field, which is as if it were entirely offline with the Icelandic Parliament. Hv. A senator knows as well as I do that the Icelandic Parliament has agreed to a policy on these matters, which is extremely clear as the government of Iceland, not alone, but two have followed. I agree that it is successful for these three nations, and particularly Iceland and Greenland, to have a broad array of lines against the north for various reasons. There may be less evidence and fewer that lie on the part of the Faeroe Islands, but I don't even think about it. But I object, with all my might, as a member of the General Assembly of the Icelanders, and as a member of the Foreign Affairs Committee, that this is done without some form of consultation or formal contact with the World Council of State. I believe that neither the chairman of the Western Council nor any other council members there have any authority to do so, even as already noted. A senator apparently thought so badly that she does not know what to do with the results in the future. Nothing. The answer was: We'll see what it does. Then it's sent to the foreign council halls! All right, we're here elected representatives of the people, aren't we? Isn't that right? Are we giving in to some sort of counsel? That's not my understanding. I think that's what. A senator has no authority to do that, so it's just completely clear here. Otherwise, Madam President, I have nothing more to say about this. But these two points disappoint me. And the second, deep things of the north.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u260	V.E.G. President. As noted in the talk "Wicked. " A senator seems to have a problem with the people here today, but I hope that the irritability does not pass over to the Western Council and the fine work there. So far, there's a what. A senator was a zealous advocate of the Western cooperation and of the Western Council, as I have understood him in the conference and in his conduct, both during this most ideal period and during the last time of his assignment as a foreign minister. I mean, about these things. A senator mentioned free trade agreements between the three countries simply so that in the Tech Islands a year ago the theme conference agreed to a conclusion in which the governments were encouraged to work further together. In the Western Council, members of the Parliament are also members of Greenland. These conclusions, of course from the council, came from members of the three countries. Greenlanders in the council felt that way at the time. There have been some events since the meeting took place. We had another theme conference in January, Greenland, where we found and covered large quantities of free trade agreements, and we received a presentation on how they were made. But it is clear that there is little interest in the Greenlandic or Greenlandic government to enter the Hoyevík Convention. Hv. On the basis of this, a member of the body was doing well, and we have respect for it. But then there is either a two-way deal between countries, i.e. Iceland at Greenland, Greenland, and Faeroe Islands, and then Iceland and I are dealing with the Faeroe Islands or simply making a new three - sided deal. [[The president calls.]] These are the two possibilities we have for a vacation contract.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u261	Madam President. You're absolutely right. A senator and president of the Western Council to all bets is expected by this senator, and no one goes to his fun in a single or no way. I represent the Icelanders at this council, and I'm a member of the State Department, and I know exactly what my peace is. Similarly, we know exactly what authority the government has and what power it does not have. It is absolutely clear that Iceland's government is not the government that shapes the Arctic policy, that is, the Allied Parliament, and that knows why. Senator. I reiterate what I've said - even though I agree that it's good to have a consistent policy for the three countries then, they will be shaped by the councils. And neither the chairman of the Western Council nor any members of the council who sit there have any authority to hand it over to any of the Controtrusives who are going to give them suggestions for their foreign council. If they have anything to do with them, they should come to the councils. That's my opinion. That's what I'm going to think. A senator who was chairman of the Western Council, at least in this field, was grossly out of control with what is permitted of her. In view of the position of the State Department appointed in the Generals, I feel that this matter needs to be considered in particular. For my part, as an amateur for that lawsuit and what. A senator knows that I have done quite well for it, I am not going to let her or anyone else snatch it out of the council. I have, like, a whisk. A senator knows, attend to this class, and read me on that subject. I think, except for the president of the Western Council, no one has read as well the fine report of Egill Þór, the son of Níelsson as I, but it doesn't make any difference that it is the Council's decision to make this party, and there are no decisions about him as to snap a finger that in effect violates the laws that have been approved here, except that there may be a problem with the approval of a body of Congress laws in these sales. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u262	V.E.G. President. I think there may be no need to overemphasize the committee at work. Hv. A senator referred to some churchist, I don't quite understand what it is about, because the committee is simply members of the council from three countries. Of course, the Western Council is not a division of the Icelandic Parliament. These are three National Parliaments that are at the Western Council. At our annual meeting, we agreed to do this work on the report and to follow it in a way that would try to work a little better out of it, in which language the three nations can share. I think it's a great misjudgment to argue that the Western government is somehow trying to seize power from the Icelandic Foreign Directorate. I assure you, it was not for the members of Iceland who attended the annual meeting or members of the Faeroe Islands or the members of the Council of Greenland who were scheduled for that annual meeting. It is clear that the Western powers do not operate in that spirit, they never have, and they never will. However, it is our job to map out where we can cooperate. We take that role seriously, and we decided to do so at our annual meeting in Narsusaq, Greenland, in 2013. We'll finish that job.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u263	Mr. President. I don't care if there's been a decision in Narsaq or anywhere else, there's no decision to shape a policy that the Icelandic Parliament and the State Department are supposed to do, just to make it totally clear. It is quite clear who is attending Iceland's foreign policy and in what way it should be shaped, and there's nothing at all. A senator says that it changes it, so simple now it is. It is the Icelandic Parliament that does so in all major matters and nothing at all. A senator can point to a change that. At least I'm gonna say what. A senator that it will not happen on my watch, while I stand here at the council, that in this way Iceland's foreign policy will be developed. Hv. A senator was asked about it earlier - and then what, what to do with the conclusion? She didn't even know. It's not even been thought of for a long time. Yeah, maybe it'll send them for some advice. And then what? What else? I don't want to say any more, but I'm just saying, Iceland's foreign policy isn't shaped like this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u264	A respectable president. This discussion has been a long one, and we have discussed many factors that have been made to comment on this matter. Often, when a long discussion has taken place, it is possible to discuss whether it is possible to approach a subject. This was a blessed case, and we had a fine meeting, some of the members of the council, and we have achieved an excellent position across groups that we can readily agree with. I think there might be a fine example of how we can work here in the weeks to come. The points in question, the ones we may have been most critical of here, are how tight rural society is, how small the arrival of a democratic elected representative in the process, also the environmental principle, the lack of a higher level of responsibility and other such factors that we have agreed to work with between discussions. I want to thank you at the end. paritaprevir SodmundsonÞorsteinn Sæmundsson stone and what. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson, along with others who have been involved in this discussion and this work, for a very good cooperation in the final meters. I thank them for their cooperation as well as for working so well that we could cut the knot. Next, work on the export work. At least we have reached the point where there is no knot in the matter, and thanks is due. I appreciate their share.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-02-26-71.u265	V.E.G. President. This will conclude with this excellent discussion of the bill on the change in electricity laws. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir did well to consider the points that have been mainly in conflict. However, as shown in her case, the happy development has now become that there have been agreements in favor of the release of this matter. This is very good because the matter is urgent and important, so it is of great value that this agreement should be taken care of at the council. We hope that we will be a good guide in the work we will do in the next few weeks. And I'd like to thank her very much for her cooperation in this matter, along with some other stuff. paritaprevir Svandís's Svavarsdóttir and what? paritaprevir Birgitta Jónsdóttir. The key point is that the matter is now being developed in the Committee, on which. The employment committee, and then it enters the council to the 3rd. I hope you'll make a success of it.
