ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u1	The President has received the following announcement from the advance team on change in the committees of Congress, such as Article 16. Parliamentary convention: Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir takes up her seat Sigrún Magnúsdóttir as an assistant on the pro board. Karl Garðarsson takes EinarDaðason place as chief member of the Foreign Affairs Committee. Sæmundsson takes the seat of the Haraldur Einarsson as his deputy to the Foreign Affairs Committee. Höskuldur Þór Karl is the Garðarsson member of the board and board board of directors. Lára Arnardóttir takes Vigdís Hauksdóttir as chief member of the Board of Directors and Control Committee. Vigdís Hauksdóttir takes Hödund, son of Þórhallsson as his deputy of the Board of Government and Control. Karl Garðarsson takes her place, Lára Arnardóttir, as the head of the General and Education Committee. Páll Jóhann Pálsson takes his seat, son of Karl Garðarsson, as an assistant to the General Education Committee. Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir takes Jóhann Páll's son Pálsson's seat as the chief member of the welfare committee. Páll Jóhann Pálsson takes the seat of the son of Karl Garðarsson as the chief member of a financial committee. Silja Dögg Djög Gunnarsdóttir, took Páll's son Jóhann Pálsson's seat as an assistant to the budget board. Willum Þór Thor Þórsson takes his seat, Sigrún Magnúsdóttir, a deputy of the Northern Council. Vigdís Hauksdóttir takes the seat of Jóhanna María Sigmundsdóttir as head of the Northern Council. The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson takes Vigdís Hauksdóttir as the head of the Westnoric Council. Þórunn Egilsdóttir takes his place Ásmundur Einar Daðason's son as an assistant in the Westnoric Council. Sæmundsson takes the seat of Páll Jóhann's son Pálsson's replacement at the NATO Council. These changes will be considered approved without a vote if they do not object.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u2	Mr. President. I come up here to make comments about the job practices of a professional station where I am a vice president. This morning's meeting was where the subject was discussed that the task management of a Framework Programme was not working within a frame frame program. I had requested that the meeting not only be found the way the chairman requested ten people from the energy sector to complain about the management practices of the Committee but also the representatives from the environmental sector. Meanwhile, Senator Bjarts took the future, Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir. It was not the word. This ghost movement, which has returned to the job committee, is unacceptable for the Congress's work. It is not acceptable to see how the work is being done there, that they are being undermined by the credibility of the task management. V.E.G. Environment Minister has just expressed confidence in mission management. What kind of work are these? I want the highest. The President looked at this work done by the Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u3	A respectable president. Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson spoke specifically under the persuading debate that it was time to get out of the pits and work here on the subject. In the meantime, this happened to the highest level. The Environment and Resource Minister described a special support for the work of the project management framework. We'll see now. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson is planning to undermine the credibility of the framework and of the project management. This is a serious matter, a respectable president, and as a matter of course. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnúsdóttir and what. paritaprevir Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir requested that a common meeting be discussed with an environment and transport committee, with a framework under the Environment Minister and, thereby, under the Council's Environment Committee. What kind of work are these, a respectable president?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u4	A respectable president. Don't we get to repeat the dance again from last winter? Are you kidding me? It's such an amazing situation that comes up here repeatedly, and what is it going to be? You want action. They had so close on summer vacation that they decide that this is no longer working, and now we have to throw one of them into the fruit cake. That cake was baked this morning. A respectable president. This category consists of an environment and transport committee. The employment board has nothing to do with taking up this sort of discussion, which is designed solely to undermine a professional committee, a professional Framework Programme Management Board, without at least a consultation with the Minister and the Environment Committee, which will take this class. [[The president calls.]] I would like the president to interrupt this meeting, it will be called to the meeting of the council groups and review the task force of the Committee on the Council. This isn't working.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u5	Mr. President. We may be setting up here for another winter, where the management of the professional department is employed, okay? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's son becomes a major, independent problem here at the council. I thought that was it. A senator would have been embarrassed enough last year and made enough war here, but he intends to start the same game. Now a minister has declared her support for the work of the project management and project management to be at peace, and she will not suggest any suggestions for the council until the project management has finished her work. No, then go what? paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson en route to the employment committee of the Member States, which, of course, are in the environment minister and only from the energy sector. It's his view of the normal tactics in this case. Of course it is. The senator here is weighing to the highest. Environment Minister, not everyone else who treats this party and has made a statement about how it intends to handle matters. [[The president calls.]] Just let it go. A senator walking on this loose-blown stuff? Can we at least put a mule in his mouth?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u6	A respectable president. I remember a time when the Kingdom News program was read up, such regular teams. We may want to put it on the program, close as usual, Jón Gunnarsson's son mispronounced members of the Governing Body. It's the natural word for an intolerable, respectable president. We know that it was in, I want to call it the product of a framework to be sent to the Employment Committee instead of to the environment and transport committee where it belongs. At the beginning of the council, the Environment Minister reported that she accepted the decision of the Council here at the previous council and then stayed within the framework, when the chairman of the Committee continues to arrive. I don't know, I just don't want to say what I think, a respectable president. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u7	A respectable president. Now, let's start this play again on the issue of government opposition that we agreed on during our last term in the council, trying to present some controversy in the ground, and to establish a certain policy of reconciliation in this matter. That's what it was about.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u8	Thank you.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u9	If we're going to settle this matter, a respectable president, then the law we passed is absolutely minimal. The Commission presented a very serious controversy between several people, including the Power Agency, energy companies, and others, that the work of the project has not been legalized. Is it not normal for a job committee who had the case in mind to pick it up and go on top of it, doing so with local council representatives to review if we are really giving up at first, which, of course, leads to an even greater disagreement? A respectable president. The head of Project Management confirmed that it was his opinion that the law's framework had been passed on to the Commission last winter, it would have been out of the framework of the law. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Can we not unite in this regard that at least we want the law to be done? [[The president calls.]] There is no other goal on the part of him. The employment committee in this case, but trying to improve the agreement on the outcome that may follow, that is a law established by the Council. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u10	The president wants to see the members of Congress that respect the time limit of the council that is a law in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u11	Mr. President. I feel very serious about quoting the chairman of a project director and misconstruing his words. He felt that it was a mistake to go into haste treatment, that it could not have been managed by the methodology they were intended for. That was the mistake. I ask: If it is claimed here that a project administration is not acting by law, which is a very gross burden on project management and mistrust at the highest level. Minister, that this is not a legal hearing and not a administrative hearing, is this not at home with a board of administrations and patrols? That's what I'm talking about. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson become a self - appointed Inquisition? These are no business practices and management. We cannot offer the council such tactics. [[The president calls.]] I'd like to state that the head of Project Management asserted this morning. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson should be able to agree that the work of the Committee is within the framework. [[The president calls.]] That's a very poor taste of a whale. A senator to 10th and named men in professional groups whom he does not consider to be qualified.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u12	President. Then we are in repeat material. I still feel very important, though, that members of the Parliament keep this in mind. So, at the end of the last council, a senator and director of the professional committee promised that we would continue our busy schedule, perhaps we should not spend too much time giving. A senator what he's calling for. I suggest we settle on the issues we have here and this will be arranged for a council meeting. It's the right setting, and I challenge the president to make a conference meeting right now and then stop giving a reason. A senator of all this negative attention at a council hall, obviously what the senator is calling out for.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u13	A respectable president. I'm trying to figure out how insulting I am to get up right now. I felt that I was coming from a very good and useful meeting, and I completely agreeed with the viewpoint as a result. paritaprevir Lilja Rafney Magnney Magnúsdóttir showed us at our last meeting on a professional committee that should represent the environment. I'm actually the object of understanding what it would have destroyed to add one or two people to the meeting where there were a lot of people and would've just made it better and left us all out of this situation. I am glad that the meeting was an open media that I find very important and a big step toward informing others about what is going on in committee meetings. In general, I think that everything that leads us to the place where we avoid such strange events as these are of the good things we now do. I don't understand the view that two or three people would have made the decision that this meeting had been too crowded.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u14	V.E.G. President. Hv. paritaprevir Heiða Kristín Helgadóttir met with the nail when she said that this morning's meeting was good and beneficial because it was him. He was essential for the members of the committee. The job board is covered with information because workers in the energy sector have found the work of the project management. Hence, they were likely to bring these parties together so that members of the committee could make a complete picture of what has been happening in the project management since its appointment. I believe the committees are far better informed now than for the meeting on how these matters are going. Of course, people are misled at the way things are going on, but this meeting was set up as some witch hunt or inquisition is just a perfect fair. [[The president calls.]] The meeting was primarily designed to help a person understand the situation and to get good information. Isn't that what we're supposed to have? Shouldn't we have good information to make good decisions, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u15	A respectable president. Yes, we should have good information. Yes, we should respect one another. And, yes, we're supposed to work here as well as we can. This is not the case. It's what leads only to the third year's conflict. There's no good behind it, I can say it. It is also not for the good of the language itself. A senator wins it because it sounds like he's about to go on another mission that will lead to a delay in expedite. He did so here at the last council. Impulse reactivation would be triggered if that were the case. A senator wouldn't have gotten in her way all last winter. In his case here, it sounds like he's still on his one trip to a expedition that will delay the whole process, delay the fact that a frame plan takes over. All we need to think about is what they are doing and to be careful in the race for knighting. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Another thing I'm going to have to mention is that the matter depends on the environment and transport committee, not on the job board.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u16	A respectable president. It will be possible for the West to say the length of winter compared to the time when some particular groundhog will show itself out of its hole. - Now let me finish the story, chief. Ministers, before you feel shocked at the Ministers' class. [[Up front.]] The situation is similar to that of today's day. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson's review of a frame plan shows that it's going to be a long, tough winter. The laws that have certainly been committed in a frame plan include taking out specific activation options and requesting their quick treatment. Who have done so? V.E.G. Government. Who has done more and more? Hv. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson with his work programme. Is he the man who is now investigating these violations? Is he the right person to do that? It is happy if people have seen and repented, but I am not sure that even though a professional committee is able to pick up most parts of the council, it is the right committee to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u17	A respectable president. It's amazing to hear people speaking here, quite by surprise, and what shit you've come into, a personal shit attack one more time. They can't get out of this mud, some of them whisks. Councilmen, respectable president. The Congress decided to send this case to the professional committee. That was not the decision of the committee. It was the council that decided, and it was the committee that covered this rather than the environmental committee. They agree with the views and announce that there will be a meeting with another party, but we took 70 parties to discuss this last year's meeting. We can't take Iceland's Natural Protection Association and National Protection out of its contours, then we have to tell the countryside and the tourism and all the other stakeholders to be equal. [[Up front.]] We will hold such a meeting if you wish. Are we stalling? [[The president calls.]] Is it really so that some senators here in the hall, I'm asking them to raise their hands, want the process to continue in a conflict, blundering debate about being violated, there's not going to be a law? [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Is it not the council's responsibility to see to it that the execution of the law is carried out? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u18	A respectable president. It is strange what will all go to one end if the task management of a framework is involved. I agree with what's been going on here with the members of this meeting this morning, and it wasn't all of the board that thought it was a good conversation. If there's no sign of a good willingness to work together first, talk together and try to prevent misunderstandings, I don't know what. This year the work force is made up of the job committee. Is it not proper to combine our strings so that we are all on the same page on how we will work? I think those who have come here just want to continue the war and stay at war for the whole winter as they were all winter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u19	Mr. President. It is the source of much of the beginning, and in all cases it has been the government, and particularly the head of the professional committee, who has started the war on these issues. You can look up the pages of history in that subject, and you can see that. The law on this subject is under the secretary of the environment. A Ramma plan is on the environment minister programme according to the President's decision to operate in the Iceland Board of Directors. It is the role of the Environment Minister to establish a law-enforcement project and it has been done by a minister, expressing full confidence in project management, and to declare that she wants to give peace to the project management of work. The employment committee is not authorized in this area, she is not. And it would have been the lowest thing to work on preparing a meeting in cooperation with the environment and transport committees and the employment committees if they wanted something to go into these matters, which can be seriously challenging to serve any upbuilding purpose, because the point now is that the project management is getting peace. He's like a dog. A senator, the governor of war, w. þm. Jón Gunnarsson is trying to corrupt. [[The president calls.]] Then I suggest he gets a what? paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir with him in this special Inquisition so that we combine all the legal powers of the council in a single committee. The members of Jón Gunnarsson and Vigdís Hauksdóttir. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u20	A respectable president. I'm very thinking about the position of the highest. The Environment and Resource Minister as well as the lack of support for the Management Board in this discussion. She has expressed her full trust in her work ethic. It has described the importance of the task management of the Framework Programme being allowed to complete its work, to complete the procedure, and to propose a proposal to the minister on the basis of current legislation. Why does the administrative body find itself in the planning to undermine the credibility of its own Minister? And why do you have to come up with the Outfit, huh? paritaprevir The Þorsteinn of Sæmundsson, and joins in the underminement of the pursuer? What kind of stunning is this, a respectable president, with regard to the environment and its minister?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u21	V.E.G. President. I have complete confidence in the Environment and Resource Minister, so to speak. There is nothing to suggest that it is not. However, there is something about this meeting that needs to be kept in mind. The decision for this meeting this morning was made at a meeting of the employment committee by the whole committee. No comment was made by a representative of the government's opposition to the fact that this meeting would be held. They were taken into account the request that the meeting be opened to the media. We felt that we were just fine, and I repeat what I was saying before, the meeting was held, and to him, the Ministry officials were also invited to inform the committee of the events in order to clear the atmosphere, in order to get the overall picture when the energy companies had made comments about the work of the project management. What's wrong with that? paritaprevir Svavarsdóttir, cleaning up the atmosphere and getting all the information on the table? [[The president calls.]] Is there any objection to the fact that all information is available?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u22	A respectable president. I think the discussion that has taken place on the President's conference board shows that something has to be changed about these ideal legislations. She's not okay. Hv. paritaprevir Katrín Júlíusdóttir said that the third year in a row the government was fighting, and that the third year in a row there was a controversy among the people in this framework.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u23	If you'd be late.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u24	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Mr President, have people forgotten the fighting in the last term? Have you forgotten that when the last government took this issue out of its professional history? Then there was a frame plan, these legislation and all this process that was set up, don't forget, to settle for protection and use - during the last term, it was removed, and it grieves me - let me finish. [[Up front.]] [[The president calls.]] It grieves me, a respectable president, that a meeting must not be held to discuss how we can seriously try to negotiate these matters without the fact that things are going upside down. I ask men to pray. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson has another meeting where all these views are made because it is his goal. [[The president calls.]] I'm on it. The committee and all the committees in their best interest in bringing this matter to a conclusion. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u25	I again reiterate with members of the council and ministers that they respect their speaking lesson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u26	A respectable president. I have to say I'm amazed at the position in which this case is in here. I wondered, " Is there any surprise in people's minds that they react this way here? ' Is that really surprising? Is that not the case, and has it not been for a long time that this group of litigators is at great length? Didn't our last team be agreeing to bring the Whale reactivation to a novelty party? Couldn't reach the ◯ result as long as the dog. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson should be able to accept? Is the situation of the job, the economic situation, requiring that people have special quick action in a frame plan? Is it not true that the work committee and the majority of the Parliament simply accept the well - being of the project? It will be returned to the secretary of the environment. Does it need to be involved? [[Up front.]] Is there something that the council should be meddling with this process? [[The president calls.]] It's what it is. paritaprevir Jón Gunnarsson really that he of all the men in this room is the man to bring this issue to the earth? [[The president calls.]] Really?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u27	A respectable president. First, I'd like to say there's nothing wrong with the members of the Parliament calling to get a perspective on factors that have been presented on the framework, job management, etc. There is nothing wrong with it, and the meeting was even open to the media, so we cannot say that there was anything shut - down. What I think is the right thing to comment on here is when the senators, the executives who make such a meeting have opened the media for discussion, are called military chiefs, even suggest that they are groundhogs and other similar items. At that point, I think it's right for me to make a comment, and I'll do it here at the highest. President. I'm asking all of us to be careful with our words because there's nothing wrong with what was done here this morning. It was announced to an open meeting at a job station, where comment was made and nothing else has happened. [[The president calls.]] There is no reason to call men chiefs of war or marmots.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u28	The president believes that he does not have to state that Congress officials are guarding their word. That's a rule of course.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u29	A respectable president. I simply say that I am amazed at the position that has already come to the Hall of Congress. The minister of industry comes into the platform and talks about the need for legal adjustments in the language field of another minister. And because I think politics would be better if men were with their companions, I find it heartrending to see the lack of cooperation between candidates with his environmental minister, who appeared in their rhythmic course here with independents in the pursuit of the highest rank. Environment Minister. I was shocked when the environmental minister came forward the other day and said that he was waiting for the results of the project. She thus showed a willingness to make an abundance of peace in this matter, and that is commendable. But it sucks to see the highest. Prime Minister will try to undermine it with the strength of his own party and of the senator's candidates. That's sad. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u30	Mr. President. I agree with them. A senator who spoke before me. V.E.G. At the beginning of the council, the environmental minister made a very clear statement that it considered important, as discussed at the last council, to allow the task management to complete its work. Therefore, she did not make any changes in this council. Rather, she said that it was important to give the case the time it would take to complete it and that there would be no continuing conflict in the matter. I think it's the Senate's self-employment. The above comments have been made that were not made during the meeting. That's what happened before. paritaprevir Magnúsdóttir Electrical Island, the vice president of the Committee, showed that her remarks were not taken into consideration so that comments were truly made.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u31	That's wrong.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u32	Let us also see that when we discuss the matter, the matter has been sent to the fore. A professional committee of the council was just a larger part of the council. Of course, significant comments were made at the time that the matter was not to be made. Environment Committee. [[The president calls.]] In fact, Mr. President was talking about dividing a frame plan in two, that it belonged in two committees. I think the council needs to go over this and agree with the people here who have said there's a reason to discuss this... [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u33	A respectable president. This is the conference board of presidents, but since the last assembly it is customary to be prepared for a material discussion on a frame plan. I think it's time to examine the council's tactics on this matter. Here's a broken face in the frame of speech one more trip, and here's this part who's abused one more trip. A respectable president. The Congress has truly met, and it is quite clear how the government's opposition can abuse the Council's program to discuss a frame plan, but so when a program is set on the program of the council, it is not possible to discuss it. A respectable president. I don't understand what these people in the government stand for in this case, except for all the uncanny and abusive speech here for one member of Congress who has a bad temper. þm. Jón Gunnarsson. [[The president calls.]] It is a disgrace to these people. [[Up front.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u34	A respectable president. I object to the interpretation of the chairman of the United States of America, boy. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's Árnason, who tells me that I have preached laws that are not in my area. That's not what I was talking about. I'm asking men to stick to the subject. I was saying there's obviously something wrong with the law that has--the goal of all work was to solve some conflict... [[...in the law.]] [[You said that.]] A respectable president. It's hard to stay in time when you don't get a bed to talk about it here. There's something wrong with the law when there's so much conflict, and that's what we need to talk about. I'm not making any legal adjustments. I'm not describing any lack of confidence in environmental ministers, on the contrary. [[The president calls.]] We've been over this. I want people to take it for what it is. We need to put this matter in a better direction, for the good of all of us. It was during the last term that the issue in each committee was at home. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u35	The president asks both senators and Ministers to respect speech class. [[So the case wasn't transferred from one ministry to another?]] The General Assembly Hall is a speaker's chair, not the hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u36	A respectable president. I just want to make a comment on what's going on. 2.m. s.. This suggests that when someone starts talking about a meeting government, committee work, or similar activities, it is spontaneous speech and spontaneous material discussions. [[Up front.]] Neither is the case. This brings up the issues and the consequences of that decision. It has been noted that this was a meeting that was open to reporters, whom I think is actually good, information collection, and how it is carried out. This is what has been discussed. There has been no material discussion here so I have heard, and I have been here all along. Also, governments have passed the time here, suggesting that these are something people want to discuss. It would be closer if it were. 2.m. s.. For example, if you'd come to realize that this pool is for discussion, and when people don't like it, it'll talk about it. [[Up front.]] That's for sure, that's for the team.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u37	V.E.G. President. I object to the word. paritaprevir Vigdís Hauksdóttir that the President's conference board was not discussed with this team. This is exactly what the President's conference board is and the form that is being discussed in this discussion. I also object to the word. A candidate that in the discussion of the self-programm has not been discussed with a frame plan. We stood here for hours discussing the framework and the importance of it. In case of a moment. However, a senator believes that the time of the council is better off than discussing the chairmanship of the president. A senator claims that she agrees with the requirements set out here at the highest level. The president gathers members of the council and arranges a meeting.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u38	A respectable president. I have nothing available to the President's conference board, but I thought he could have remembered at the beginning of a conference that today is 30 years since the Western Council. That's an important and remarkable piece of advice that Iceland and I are participants in. I once suggested that this spring be prepared for President's conference board that we sing at the beginning of a meeting and then give a brief thought immediately afterwards. I'm gonna suggest it again. I think this is a great idea. If this is what we have to deal with in the weeks ahead, God help us all.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u39	A respectable president. The President's meeting board is scheduled to discuss the President's conference board, but not the subject, so I'll tell you one more time. It has been noted that during the last assembly, there have been many days since the program was discussed. That's right. But at five hours a day, there was also a talk about the President's conference board during the program. Is that not something we need to consider? As soon as the word "interchangeary plan " appears at a council hall, this program is abused along with other programs. What I'm asking of, and now is not a large petition, is the matter. Congress members hold to the meeting program and within the framework set by the council and discuss the issues under the program. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u40	A respectable president. I've been under this discussion about the President's conference board, and I've never heard any subject on a frame plan, not one. It has been said of the work of committees. The director of the trade board, and this has been called on the nature of the meeting and what meetings are for, whether they are opposed or by gathering information or who should be offered at a meeting. That's what's been discussed here. It is only natural for people to discuss such things with them about the President's meeting board. I feel very tired about it. 2.m. s.. As a result, every time the President's conference board is discussed, it is automatically a talker. This, hopefully, does not underscore the attitude of others. A senator's point is to discuss differences over his head. Looks that way. A senator simply wants advice.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u41	There are: health ministers, industrial and commercial ministers, foreign ministers and Ministers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u42	Mr. President. There are two substances I want to record only at the highest level. Minister of state. Simply put, the first question is, When is it due to the Supreme One? Governments will make their next attempt to obtain a transport plan. As we know, this government has not yet been able to solve a transport program. It's been a long time, and the group seems to be doing a lot of work. Mostly, though, I want to talk to the highest. Minister of the state of attitude or position. A minister for the discussion now of worsening survival, unfortunately, the local community. It is clear that their recovery, especially of the big, deteriorated in the past year. There is a heavy sound in rural authorities today, as we hear in the leading of their holding financial conferences, and there is increasing pressure to reevaluate government and rural relations in the direction of strengthening the local community's positions, understandable. Adding to the fact that some rural communities are in serious trouble because of the costs of serving disabled people who were overruled by treaties from the state and who have not yet come to an end. In fact, it is similar with debates about music instruction. Many rural areas are currently burning, and they look forward to worsening results, so their chairman now announces that if there is no change, they are heading for a cut and a sharp operation in the rural areas to make ends meet. That is why asking the highest question is near. Minister of the Interior: Support to the highest. The Minister of the Ministers of the Department of Business Communications of State and Company to be reexamined for the sponsorship of rural society? Second of all, it's the highest. Minister fair that the state will lower taxes, bear on the breast, and take refuge in its ability to do so, as unwisely as it is in economic respect for the expansion, at the same time as the rural communities are starving? Is it a reasonable provision for citizens of the country to see that the state is reducing its income, while rural society is living in a worse supply while they are not being reached in any way? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u43	V.E.G. President. First of all, questions why. A senator on an upcoming transport program will be submitted four years before the council in the autumn months. It needs to change from the weight submitted to us as a result of the money put on transportation to the 2016 budget. I think it is reasonable to think that the four - year transport strategy will match the budget for the coming year. A 12 - year transport program will also be submitted here. I think that this winter we have much more time to discuss transportation than we had during our last session, and that's natural of the good. That's what I'm talking about. A senator named here, taking into account the survival of local communities, is that a big issue in the Ministry of Internal Affairs. Of course, although we do not have financial relations in the financial way of the Ministry, we have to do with our rural society. It's obvious that when large metal groups have been moved into action, it's quite obvious. A senator himself knows who he used to be. Secretary of finance, however, the cost of rural society has been higher than when the State was in charge of the task. This may be explained in part by the fact that once projects have become closer to citizens and rural communities, there will be a greater willingness to perform greater service than when the State is in control, so this has resulted in its consequences. I believe it is very wise for countries and rural groups to discuss the situation. As a minister of the Interior, I can now state that such discussions will begin. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u44	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister for the answers. It is good for us to have a transport program, but sad enough if it must be even more unattractive than what was shown here for us because money is smaller and a transport plan is therefore not to be affected in the efforts of the council, which I really hope will not be changed. I don't know if I could understand. A minister would be tempted to wait for a solution for transportation to change the budget. I don't think there's much waiting for the state and rural society to take up this position. It is very unwise to ignore the official activity as a unit of these products and to fail in the way that the State is improving its state, which is, of course, good, and to believe that its income can be reduced at the same time as its rural society is becoming increasingly difficult. It's not for the sake of the welfare community in Iceland. [[The president calls.]] We should view this as a unit and strengthen the support given to our welfare services in general, whether by a government or by a community.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u45	V.E.G. President. Of course, the appearance of a nation and a community to its citizens is important and that people look at things out of the city's interests. I think we must agree on that. With regard to transportation, I have now described that there is a great need for transportation that has been built up over the last few years. We know exactly why. A great deal of effort is needed there. I really hope that we can get more money on transportation. There is no need to discuss what I want in this regard. It was this kind of budget that we had to pay a considerable amount of money in the necessary agreements. We also wanted priorities for the welfare of others. It simply means that such decisions need to be made. Of course, I'm behind them, but I restitute that even though it is necessary for us to start seeing more money on transport projects.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u46	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister of state, the failure to negotiate with the Police National Association is the first. During the summer of our Commonwealth, the decrees of the classes chosen by the government to refuse to negotiate appeared. I did not seek to negotiate with the police on the basis that was laid, in addition to the specialities that police are concerned with one. Policemen do not have strike rights, and they should be especially respected by the fact that they are making such a stand for peace with their own community. I believe it underscores the clear desire to be ever ready for whatever duties may be called. If agreements with the police continue to fail, they are told that their jobs are unappreciative, that their contribution to the safety and well - being of the citizens is not important. The decline of the years after collapse has resulted in subspecies and increased pressures that have not been recovered. The social development with its organized crime, globalisation, and drug - age systems has changed the nature of their work, making it more dangerous and more difficult. Government negotiations will make it even more difficult to develop effective law enforcement with happy police officers who can be sure that their work is appreciated. However, success in creating such a situation results in ambition and satisfaction, leading to good service for citizens and progress in police work. So I'd like to ask a minister if she's not concerned about this situation and if she's not going to use her way to make a deal with the police.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u47	V.E.G. President. I can agree with that. A senator explains the importance of police work and the vital role of the police in the country. Of course, we thank you for that important work, for it doesn't have to be disputed, I think we all agree on it. Of course, I believe it's important that we make a deal with the police. That they don't have a strike right means that one has to approach the situation in that way, they sacrifice it in themselves for this important work they perform, and in some respects it has to be observed in the contracts made with the police. I know these cases are in the process of the highest level. Secretary of finance, who has a contract offer on behalf of the state. We're not here at the State Department. I also know that men will look to the conclusion of a crime and what they will say about what is in their speciality, that these contracts will be concluded. It is also involved in dealing with the nation's economic environment in terms of negotiations. Now I'm not an expert on how all of this is done, but I think it's this way. Of course I will, as I have spoken the police case, both because of her dress and in general because of her equipment, and therefore I can agree with that as well. One senator says that it is very important to conclude. But I have no reason to believe that this will not happen, it will work out successfully.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u48	A respectable president. I am very happy to hear that. A minister intends to take advantage of this matter and strongly urge it to take care of police and police matters. A report on the future educational arrangements for police education is currently being discussed in the Education Committee, and there are many aspects on the program. Social change requires that they cooperate with many other aspects of society, that there is a complete solution, that it is sufficient to mention domestic violence, and the affairs of families that are increasingly demanding police officers for a different approach, but they may have had the opportunity to adopt. I encourage the Minister of the Interior to follow through on this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u49	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you. A senator for bringing this matter and the affairs of police officers in general. It is fine that in his later words, he mentioned the current job at the Ministry regarding police education. That work is of great importance to the future of the police school and its scope and education of policemen. I think that in this regard, it is also wise to look to an ongoing education, even though it is not exactly what is being discussed in that work. The mind looks very hard in that direction, and it is important for the police in their entire career to add, so I think that there is also a discussion that we need to take away from the discussion we will have about the police school itself. All of this is under inspection and always with the goal of promoting the law enforcement in this country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u50	A respectable president. A great many parents are blessed to raise their children together in two homes after divorce or separation. Research shows that this arrangement is good for children and is good for them, but, unfortunately, there are some established or legal obstacles that make it difficult for parents under these circumstances. What a contrast there is between the parent living in a child's legal home and the parent called the parent's close - knit parent! This is reflected in a number of decisions made by a legal guardian, the availability of a parent's home to institutions, banks and telephone companies, and so on in the improvement system. The improvement system is completely arranged for a child to live in one place, the place where he has a legal home. On May 12, 2014, a conquistador proposal was adopted on my initiative by a transferer to be appointed a working group that would create an arrangement that would allow for this status of marriage parents and law - enforcement parents, either by taking up an arrangement of a double law home for children or another legal arrangement that would be recognized as having children in two households. A report has now been published, hot coals from the printery just today, distributed earlier, a report by the Minister of the Homeland Minister on the equivalent of children living in two households. I welcome that report. These are the big steps, and it suggests that a baby in a so - called divided home could be enrolled to meet certain very reasonable conditions and that a child is expected to live in two households. It's that my progress knows a lot if it's possible. I'd like to look into the minister's thoughts on these matters and what she can see to be the next step.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u51	V.E.G. President. You're right next door. A senator reports that this report has just been developed. I'd like to start by saying that she's very careful and that there are many suggestions in it that are very important to the continuation of the case, I believe that the initiative taken during the spring months of 2014 is very important, and now we see its results in this report. The article is very important in the discussion of the position of parents who have reached a good accord while those who are in a difficult situation because of their children's upbringing. I think it's 20 to 25 thousand parents who no longer have a marriage that has a good agreement for custody of their children, i.e. They agree fully on how to handle this matter. I think it's normal for the system to take it into account that such an agreement exists, so that the legislation will testify in the face of respect in the legislation. Now we'll take the report for the Ministry. I am very good at reviewing very accurately the suggestions for the adjustment made there. These are the changes in children's laws, legal laws, and other laws, and now our job is to review and continue with them. I think it's important that it be kept under such a report. Then you will review the suggestions there are, and those that will benefit and look to progress will be brought into your legal bill and will hopefully continue to act on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u52	A respectable president. In the interpretation of the main report, the statement was convincingly clear that there was a great difference between law - enforcement parents and those of society parents, which appeared in many ways in legislation, established environment, in the reform system, and so on. The population included commissioned to investigate that claim and make it absolutely systematic. What a joy it is to see that the work force has taken that role very seriously, put on the exact sewing of the case, and determine the difference between the situation and the way it appears! The statement in the synonym is absolutely correct; the difference between the situation is very great, and it's pathetic. So here laws need to be changed, and the work force makes very clear suggestions on this. I think it would be a big step if parents who choose to raise their children after divorce could choose that their children be registered in a divided home where the circumstances of the households would be completely equal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u53	V.E.G. President. In itself, I don't have much to add. I think it's just like this, and now you need to study the contents of this report and see what you can do to change. I think it also matters for the report itself. I've had a short time to understand what it is, but those who come along with this report are those who are familiar with these matters. This gives the report so much weight when those who wrote it are the ones we would most likely take note of these matters. Of course, it gives us greater faith and trust and strength to continue working on the case, and that will be the case. I know why. A senator will be able to keep an eye on this, and the council will be able to observe it as well, and we will see how we are reaching out for that matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u54	Mr. President. I'd like to ask you a few questions about the tourism fund. We know that this group of litigators has been in trouble for far too long, and it is not yet a matter of how much money it will be funded. Now we have a budget of 149 million budgets. K. to the fund and to plan to collect a monthly allowance next year to up to 270 million. K. I'd like to hear from the highest. Ministers, if there is anything to do with the permanent funding of this fund, have a strong and urgent need for infrastructure as the next year comes to 1.3 million tourists. I'd like to ask a minister if she believes that a reexamination of dollars can be done when applying for the fund. It seems that money could not be replaced, and may you ask, " Is this because people who apply have to contribute in return? ' We know that the contribution that came in spring only to the construction of public tourist facilities. I'd like to hear from the highest. Ministers, how she feels about the financial cost of transport in the country, the lack of effort to meet the large number of tourists traveling through the country, and the lack of money to travel are not in a crying contradiction to the increase in the number of tourists in the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u55	A respectable president. You're right next door. A senator was clearly identified with a 1st. the budget of the budget is estimated to be 150 million. K. This year. As I explained with that discussion, the European Commission's Fund has received 2,3 billion provision, of which in the last two years, 1,700 million. K. since that government began. We became aware of the budget that of the 2,3 billion still there are 1,200 billion. K. after unassigned or unfashioned in the fund of projects that have been assigned. We are laying the final touches on the diagnostic work to find out what the reasons are. Is that the opposite? In some cases, yes. Then there is a question about whether there are other factors, and it has also been found that planning, preparation, and so forth has just not been done in time. In the fictitious process, we will have finished this work, and then we will suggest, depending on what may come out of that increased budget. We did not want to do so because we had not yet received an explanation as to what was delayed. I'm ready to look at some changes in the fund's protocols. We have such adjustments to consider the objection. We especially hear from small rural or private groups that this can often be the kind of hip that is hard to cover, so we are quite ready to look at it. We will make sure that there is plenty of money to meet the needs of tourism.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u56	Mr. President. It is good to know that a minister is open to reviewing the rules of the European Commission for travel. There are questions about why it is so hard to get out of the resources that are in there, on every beach. You ask yourself, " Are my rural society not ready to go to this job and planning because of the tourism infrastructure? ' I'd like to hear the highest attitude. Ministers to the fact that their rural communities even had some income of a valuable tax. Of course, we know that the value of taxes on tourists is very high, and only the government makes that income. I'm asking if it doesn't have to be necessary to get the rural population of the number of tourists to come to the country.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u57	A respectable president. Only because of the previous question why. A senator who was involved in transportation. It is true that we have to increase our money and have been doing so. I remind you, this spring, they put 1.8 billion bucks in it. Especially on so - called tourist roads, we are making it better. But as I told you before, it's not enough to add money, we need to improve the organization. Now we're finishing a major policy project that we've been working on for as long as the last year with the tourist organisation and with the travel director. That work has continued far and wide throughout the country. You can see, without telling me the results of this work, that what is lacking is a uniform government. That's a government, state, community, and article of itself. There will be suggestions for improvement in this subject, and I look forward to introducing that policy here before the council and the nation so that we can see how we can work better together on these matters in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u58	President. I'm in the same area as the lead guy before me. I'd like to have a place to talk to. Minister on the tourist position enterprise. Its two principal roles are listed in the Law on Action Fund. The second is that the budget of a tourist status should be spent by the President's permission: The European Court of Auditors has established the EEA's work programme for the European Commission and its member countries. Sadly, though, everyone traveling to the country who knows that some tourist attractions are true stories that are very uncertain for tourists. I'd like to ask the minister if she had the check done since the tourist attractions in which people may get lost and broken or otherwise. Visitors to the country know these places. V.E.G. A minister would not have to wait long for an overview of the identity of these places. I'd like to ask the highest. A minister may have wondered if the State is going to act there directly. Has the highest. A minister wondered, " Does the State simply go in order to secure these places, rather than wait for a number of equally powerful rural communities to come back? '
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u59	A respectable president. Yeah, you're right next door. A senator's role is to ensure safety at the tourist positions and to protect nature from the potential challenges and to protect the natural spheres we want the tourists to enjoy. Of course, I have not been made a complete assessment, and I take this as a nice tip into the work that will be followed by the consistent strategy I spoke about earlier. I do not rule out that such a thing was done, but because of the complexity of the administrations, there are several departments in this area. The Ministry of Environment oversees places owned by the State, the National Parks. Then there's the locals. Then the Minister of the Interior is officially responsible for the safety issues. I'm not trying to compromise the question, but that's exactly what we've come to realize that we need to work on the important work we're about to finish right now. We all need to be clear about what we're supposed to do. If someone else does, we need to be sure that we're going in rhythm, that's the point. On the other hand, the government has taken a large part in the amount of money that has fallen into the fund, on the other hand, by ensuring financial support in places that need building up, but the state has also met the rural communities, e.g. last year, when the tournament company was taken out, so that their communities could improve without making an objection. The problem is that the design, preparation, and organization, and what I went through to the last inquiry, has been delayed for the structure, including the security issues. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u60	A respectable president. I feel that in discussing these matters, the emphasis has always been on nature and nature bulbs, that they will not be trampled down and that they will not be destroyed, and I will not belittle the task. But I'm here showing that there are certain places in the country where there is a great stream of tourists, where people are more likely to fall and break their feet or break their arms or hurt their foreheads. The one intended for this case is full of money. [[Up front.]] Yeah, yeah, but he's full of money, there's some point the Minister calls administration or something that money doesn't get into. I think it's amazing that the Minister in charge of this, who can change the rules of law because it's not legally determined, has not been able to get this money into use.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u61	A respectable president. Though the authority of a minister may be great, I do not have the authority to change by law and take back the funds that have been given under the laws and regulations of the fund without knowing exactly what causes the delay. That's exactly what we're doing. If the projects are not going to start for any reason, we will certainly take back the money on that strong foundation. With regard to the safety issues. A senator also drew attention to the fact that these matters are not coming up now, that is not the first time in this matter. I remind you that in the wide range of natural passes, we had made special arrangements to make sure that a part of it goes right in the security, both the prevention and the introductions, but also the signs and other things that we can avoid going to places that are off track, and into the infrastructure. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] So there are matters where we are constantly trying to do better. I have high hopes that it will work when we all work together on the course that will be presented in the days ahead. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u62	A respectable president. I'm going to make an explanation for a commission about a bill to legalize the commitment of pension rights and the operation of pension funds, No. 129/1997. The bill appeared a few days ago and was sent to the Economic and Business Committee for discussion. The committee has discussed the matter and has issued a committee opinion available here. I'm gonna go get a big skirmish on that committee party. It shows that the committee received a representative of the Ministry of Economic Affairs, which explained the required changes. In par. 24th. a law on the obligation of pension rights requires the obligation of the management of pension funds in order to have an insurance analysis of the capacity of the fund to pay a pension, and according to Article 39. The law of the law shall be the clean holding of a pension fund, along with the present price of future fees as high today as the price of future pensions for them as the cost of the future. However, if an insurance investigation reveals more than 10% difference between assets and pension commitments, it is responsible for making changes in the approved bank. The same is true if the difference in insurance observations remains more than 5% for five consecutive years. The Committee stated that the Department of Penitentiary, with 12.3% difference between ownership and future commitments, was fired in 2014. Clearly, such differences do not fit within the limits set in Article 39. the law, the duty of pension rights and the operation of pension funds, or of the current regulations for temporary VI. Unchanged, the obligation to control the pension fund will be active to raise the cost. The committee noted that if the obligation to control the pension fund to raise the paypayer's pay fees is activated, this will lead to a growing increase in expenses for the state and rural groups. The important thing is that the increase in volumes is even more significant than the word being an increasing difference between the rights in the general system and the public and making it harder to equal the rights between the systems. Substitution of the national pension system is still under way, taking into account the financial value of the pension system and reducing the risks of a government fund because of responsible pension rights. It is proper to give more time to lead the work to its completion, but the committee feels that it will be the first. The Economic and Business Committee suggests that the bill will be agreed as unchanged. The nominee is dated September 23, 2015. Councilmen Frosti Sigurjónsson, chairman of the Economic and Business Committee, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, who is chairman of this case, Brastir Níelsson, Valgerður Bjarnadóttir, Willum Þórsson, Guðmundur Steingrímsson, Sigríður Á. Andersen, Líneik Anna Sævarsdóttir, and Katrín Jakobsdóttir. Otherwise, I refer to committees and articles with the bill. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u63	Mr. President. There is in itself no longer a lengthy discussion of this matter as a result of the situation so that it needs to be made legal today if it is not to become a problem for those directors of the employee's Pentateuch on each other, the legal obligation is to suggest an increase in industry, which, of course, would not be a good entry into the situation. It remains that we are another year of temporarily extending conditions, and this in itself is disappointing, as was shown in the highest court case. The secretary of finance when he gave this bill, but it is likely for the third time that it will be his lot to suggest that this kind of prosecuting was immediately taken in 2008 when it was shown that the trauma of the pension fund by the collapse would mean that their insurance status would be negative about a substantial amount of money, at least temporarily. However, in the case of the evidence, it is positive that only the A-section of the Pension Bank seems to require this exception. I allow me to read these data this way, and it would be interesting to hear from a president or a spokesman for the Economic and Business Committee whether it has been presented by information, as at least until the past year, this was also true of the A-section of the Penitentiary of the State. It may be concluded, then, that the situation there has improved to the point that it would not require annuity or extension due to the ISR. Finally, it is so disappointing how far the overall picture has been able to reach the overall picture in terms of biofuel recovery as well as a fairly cohesive bio-final operating system in the country. Then there is nothing else to be done while only to keep the lid on this pot, but it cremates under, and this always comes up every time you negotiate. I don't talk about anything on a program that affects to some extent the pension or pension rights, it is usually based on the quality of the individual status of the systems and the responsibility of the public on the public funds and on the self-responsibility of the common pensions, on the other hand. I think the line taken at that job is exactly right, i.e. equalizing the rights, for everyone must realize that cutting rights to the future would then be difficult for any previous generations. I don't know that in itself anyone would want to have a pension right in general into the future to be inferior, but the goal was to build up. Of course, it means that there will be an agreement to raise the deposit into the general pension fund. To the extent that the public staff would agree with the general market, of course it has directed a launch on public employees. Then people will insist not only on being equal to the pension rights but also on gaming in the ideals at the same time, so that there is a commitment to both the pension and the benefits. It involves the most likely human reversal to lay the complete basis for the ability to settle both. Of course, on the part of the public bodies, it has also been emphasized that the government has developed a plan on how to deal with an accumulated angle in the B-market of the NlR and that some time - set day's colors on how that problem will be shown, when deposit will start and to what extent it will be so that people will avoid the docks that they otherwise wear on about 2025, or whenever the B-computer would be empty relative to the same situation. I've reminded you of this here, Mr. President, several times, both last year and again, when men talk in their joy of improving the state's survival, the space to lower the taxes, and so on. True, we are becoming more successful, but it is also time to answer the question: When are we going to face this future problem? Or are we not going to do that? Are we just going to live in the shelter because the fund is good enough for another decade and we will leave what will then be in politics to pay taxes to cope with the problem? That wouldn't be especially responsible. I think it's very important that people don't forget the subjects that are in the area, and I'll allow myself to take this opportunity to record this. In itself, the council did much more unnecessary than take a thorough discussion of the situation in this enormously important class, though only in memory of our partner, why. paritaprevir Blöndalur Bearal's name, who was very eager to keep people on the subject in these matters and reminds us that this was one of the most important subjects in the future that humans could not avoid. We are not going to do so. We have limited access to this small matter, which is simply a simple extension of the temporary situation we've had since 2008 that people take time to work out the problem. Fortunately, this has happened in the sense that in the beginning this applies both to a number of general pension funds and then to the entire public fund, but now the data indicate that there is only one pension fund left, the A-section of the Pension Department of Civil Society, which is still made up to this extent with more than 10% angles. Clearly, it needs to deal with the problem but also work hard at the big challenge of bringing this pension rights to the entire population in some good future.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u64	Mr. President. I feel like there's a lot of surrender in this case. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon says that it will be the subject of those who sit here after ten years to deal with this. I strongly assume that he will be among them for the past 30 years. But without fun, Mr. President, I always listen to it for a reason. A senator has the right to lay out all that is related to government affairs and pensions. You're absolutely right. A senator noted that he has been tirelessly pointing out that this is a time for action and adjustment in view of the future. You could say that. A senator whose speech was discouraged took away my motive for coming up here. However, I would like to use this opportunity to ask why. A senator: What does he think would be most suitable, and he has the right to attack on the side of the government in view of the fact that we have achieved the consequences of the collapse of the bank? It's a success in Icelandic society. It is likely that in the years to come, the wealth of the Kingdom will have some opportunities to grow old. Well, maybe. A senator pulled it up for me in two minutes what he wanted to see happen right now?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u65	Mr. President. I'm not going to promise that I'll be at the Council in 10 years to deal with how people deal with the problem in the B League of LS, for I certainly hope that long before that time men will have to start working on that problem of subsidies. But I'm going to hope that I'll be somewhere above the earth for at least monitoring how this will be achieved. [[Up front.]] But I guess I can just say about it, like my neutron in geology said in my own time about the next Köllugos, and we just walked in on when it would be. He said that it was impossible to predict, but at some point in the coming years or decades, it would be a big Katlegos, but it would have to be determined whether he would watch it from above or below. Maybe it's a little similar to my pensions. What would be the best thing to see happen now? I've heard a little bit, and maybe have a what. Councilmen only observed that there has been a debate as to whether an agreement could be reached, for example. in the general labour market to bring up some of the pay raises that the economy is not able to control in that sense if they all go into provision and lead to an increase in private consumption and production of the economy, and now try to negotiate with these economic and national conditions to bring this in to some extent into the increased payoffs of pensions. I don't think that's a crazy idea. Perhaps now we would be talking about a national situation in which it would be wise to try to take the first steps in these matters, for it is obviously what needs to be done, to raise the pay paid in the general fund, so that they draw close to what is in the public funds. Of course, this difference between 10, 12 and 15, 15. I think it is quite good to think that now there is a national advantage to take the first steps in those matters, although it would certainly have been best to do so in the last agreements.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u66	A respectable president. It was shown in the matter of what. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's question is, is this the only fund? I just want to remind you that the Department of Pension Fund has entered the border right now. In the last two times these cases were handled in this way, the Penetration Fund for the head of the state was out of market, but is now in place because of growth, and this year the Department of Pension is 12.3%, but it was 12.5% a year. Other than that, I'm not going to do a pension thing, so it's got to go in the right direction. But I can agree that there is a full need to discuss pensions in a broad context. A respectable president. I've finished my case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u67	A respectable president. Thank you. Head of the Economic and Business Committee for Answers. It's a pleasure to learn that the evidence, although not specifically stated, was that the A-REC had entered the line now and that it did not require any special exception because of it. It is a cause for rejoicing, as well as what we learned about the fact that this was also being done in the right direction at the local bank funds. Although walking is slow, it is looking for better. I'm not interested in extending the discussion on these matters, but I thought it would be appropriate to mention only the situation in general in the matter of pensions in connection with the discussion of this little bill that there is a good solidarity to speed up and establish laws here today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u68	President. I have to say something. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon's statement that it is necessary to discuss this huge group of lawsuits at the council, especially in view of the fact that today they have offered suggestions on bridal negotiations that there will be a further buildup of pensions and remuneration so that it will pass through the Pension Funds. I think that's really important, and I challenge him. A senator will continue to try to introduce this discussion to the council. It is a question of whether or not there should be a report or something similar to get the discussion in here and get more information about the situation and the future vision accurately. This view of the future must not become political bitter, but it must cover national interests. I'm really worried about the situation, and at least I've talked myself into thinking that I'll never get a pension based on what the situation is today and how the government around the fund at the public market is often practiced. You don't have to look further than in 2008 to remember that there were many bad things to do. I'd like to ask you what. The senator how he feels it is best to introduce this discussion into the Senate Hall.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-09-24-12.u69	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for the record. Of course, there are some good ways to do this. We might try to negotiate a detailed discussion, perhaps. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The minister of finance would then open by oral records or by any of these on the status of the situation. The problem may be that while these delicate talks are still alive, they do not trust to say very much, so to speak, with the membership of everyone in the labour market trying to control the whole pension business. It is always fragile and delicate, for there will quickly be tensions if a person is not careful. This will never really be offline with the bridal interview because it is so intertwined when it is being negotiated on the other hand day by day and on what these three parties, the employee, the employer, and, in reality, the state with the tax, contributes to building up the pension rights in the collection system. Well, it's my firm opinion that the 1970's we broke in made a big fortune and strengthened the 1996 Department of Pension Funding. There lies the largest savings in the country, possessions of more than 150% of GDP, and large interest issues for those who own the pension rights, secondly for the state and rural communities who have taxes and, in fact, for the whole community how. This has to do with many complex issues, such as dealing with taxation of social security and pension rights to be considered in these areas. I accept the encouragement. [[The president calls.]] I'll think about how it made sense for me to take careful discussions about this subject at some point in my life.
