ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-07-121.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the House of Booths, Egilsdóttir Eglsdóttir. 3.m. That's the north side. "Hadth the son of Þórhallsson, and why. 2.m. Smoke. So, Vigdís Hauksdóttir, can't do any Congress in the near future. Today, therefore, at the General Assembly, which was used by Bogi Hafliðason, and Sveinbjörg Birna, the Sveinbjörnsdóttir of Sveinbjörn. They have previously taken their seats at the General Assembly and are welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-07-121.u2	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a bill to legalize the currency law, No. 87/1192, with subsequent changes. The bill is moved by a Economic and Business Committee, which is employed in cooperation with the Ministry of Economic and Economic Affairs and Iceland's Secret Bank, which is in charge of the legal legislation on currency, and is the government for the Ministry on the matter of currency. The minister has consulted with the Economic and Business Committee that the Committee will deliver the bill with the objective that it will become a law as soon as possible and no later than for the UN Bank office opening tomorrow. The Economic and Business Committee discussed the matter at a meeting held today. At the meeting, representatives of the Department of Financial and Economic Affairs, the bank manager, along with other representatives of the Federal Bank, presented the subject of the bill and answered the questions made very clear to members of the Committee. After that presentation, the committee discussed the matter and resolved to deliver the bill. I want to thank the members of the Committee for a good job and solidarity in the progress of the situation. I'll now be tracking the subject of the bill in general, but the bill can be found on Parliament 1398 along with a more detailed report. The bill is aimed at trusting the prerequisite action of the government for the release of capital syrup and weighed against the risks that can arise when capital movements and currency exchanges of certain parties are released before others. In addition, the bill's proposals are to cancel the budgets that have fallen finance companies have enjoyed from the seas, but it also aims for some business that could undermine the targets of the emissions process. At the same time, adjustments have been proposed to sharpen various laws of the law taking into account the survival of the Agency's work and avoid scourging. The legal adjustments proposed in the bill are also intended to protect the stability of the gangs and money. The bill suggests the following changes: In 1st. it is suggested that employers who are under treatment of cut-offs and legislators who have completed broken therapy in accordance with legal requirements for financial enterprises will be prohibited from owning currency exchanges, which are part of the business, with non-computers, and with savings in this country. This limitation, however, is not intended to apply when the concerned people use foreign currency to the distribution of demands for domestic currency in connection with the end of wearouts. The following talk is usually sufficient to speak of fallen financial companies rather than refer to law - enforcement agencies that have completed broken treatments and legislation established in connection with the expansive agreements made in the individual branches of the bill. A-team 2. it suggests that the fallen financial enterprise should not have any special resources, which companies within the same framework enjoy in connection with the credit trade between them. This means that the quality of the loans between these parties will meet the general conditions for loans between domestic and foreign agencies. The corresponding change is added to Article 3. the bill on how to provide responsibilities within the partnership where the fallen financial company is involved. B-team 2. it suggests that the criteria for two years of minimum loan time, which are relevant to the borrowing of domestics in foreign currency, will be extended further in order to support the limitations of the laws on currency and the advance payment of such loans. A team four. it is suggested that the authority of national Member States to purchase a foreign currency to pay the contracts of the loans of foreign currency to the domestic financial enterprise which gave the individual loans will be required on the condition that the loan is not less than two years old or that loans have been paid on account of foreign funds due to trade and services. "B" Unit 4. they have proposed restrictions on national resources to buy in a foreign currency in domestic financial companies due to loans and payments to foreign parties because of the shock of responsibilities. On the one hand, it is suggested that, in the case of loans and responsibilities given within terms, it will be conditional for the currency exchange that such loans or responsibilities relate to the trade and services trade or loans that are deemed responsible for meeting the criteria of 3.mg. 13th par. However, it is suggested that missing financial companies be not allowed to own such currency exchanges unless the respective loans or responsibilities have been given in connection with the trade and services trade. C-St. 4. it suggests that non-involved payments to maintain the normal agreement between loans and creditors fall outside the term a contract agreement made in the opinion that capital movements due to treaties and currency exchange are linked with the main policy to the exception limit of a currency law. In the 5th. it suggests that invested investments, which are directly or indirectly linked to investments in deductions or requirements for the fallen financial enterprise, will not be treated as a new investor. Investments that bring new foreign funds to the country have been based on a special provision in the law that allowed the same money to be kept out of the country and its yields. That's 5th. The bill insists that foreign currency should be returned is not considered a new influx of foreign currency. Six. it is requested that certain forms of separation therapy should be reserved for the limitations specified in Article 13. e, 1 mgr. 13th par. f, 13. "G" and " 13th pars. " The law will pass away. Nevertheless, these persons will be able to apply for expanded access from the capital capitals with reference to 1 mg. 7. and 13th par. .................... These limitations involve investments in selling funds and money requirements in foreign currency, loan trades between local and foreign agencies, and responsibilities paid by foreign markets. It is suggested that the concerned people remain excluded from the obligation of foreign currency in other cases than from those involved in borrowing in foreign currency. Finally, level 7. suggest that the law take effect immediately. Because of the nature of the bill, the law is thought to bind everyone when it is published. And since the committee presents the case, it is suggested that the case be ignored from cover to cover.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-07-121.u3	A respectable president. We, on the Economic and Business Committee, were notified about this afternoon that the Federal Bank's assessment was required to tighten rules that may still be a major concern for the rest of the population for trying to test the long-term existing currency legislation. We've been informed. It is our conclusion in the United States to move the matter in accordance with the main policy we set, and I explained from this public address when I gave a bill for the law of No. 127/2011, on currency. When we legalize the records of the Federal Bank to establish the rules of currency, I made known to the council that in order to get the council to come more often, it would have to come about changing those rules in accordance with the grants of the Federal Bank. Hence, we want to shoulder responsibility in the administrative part of these proposals and to rely on the Federal Bank's opinion on the need. It is worth keeping in mind the situation we now live in, enabling us as a nation to deal with our problems and the problems of payment risks from fallen financial companies. The reason we can deal with the problem is the legal adjustment made here on March 12, 2012, when the property of the fallen financial companies was totally subsidized. Sadly, then, there was no agreement in the conference hall, as is the case today, and those then in government resistance did not favor the bill; independence even voted against it. That bill assured the Icelandic people of a contract against the tenets and ensured that we could protect the public interest. I hope that the government that is now living on that contract. We don't have a full perspective on what the government intends to present tomorrow. I think it's reprehensible that the government hasn't called the government the opposition to that table. From our hand, the right hand has always been in cooperation with this great national interest. Nor do I feel that on behalf of the Generals, the government plans to present proposals publicly tomorrow before they are first introduced to the International Parliament. I think that all of us in this hall must be able to agree with the basic requirement that the National Assembly is respected that the government gives them important suggestions first into this council hall. We in the United States are ready to continue working as far as here to resolve these important matters with national interest. We will support the government, taking reasonable steps to make good use of the solidarity that we are proud to have created by the legal arrangement of March 12, 2012.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-07-121.u4	Mr. President. As mentioned earlier, why not? paritaprevir Páll's Árnason son, in effect, redirects this matter in order that, in 2011, the Federal Council had authority to establish on the legal law of currency, was entered into a law on capital matters. It seemed more solid to build capital capital capitals on law, not simple rules. As a result, the Council has repeatedly had to update, strengthen, or try to prevent possible patterns. This bill is that way. This means, in effect, preventive measures to close real or possible things - I can almost say some of the theoretical ways that some might try to exploit or even prepare to use in those spoken words in advance. Of course, on March 12, 2012, the most dramatic change that the General Assembly made on the law was referred to as a legal arrangement. The second most important legal practice in Iceland can be claimed to be from the collapse of the U.S. emergency law itself. That bill had two things. On the other hand, it was very parallel to what is being brought into law by various sources, to prevent and close a pattern that was then obvious that men were making use of, i.e. They bought bonds just before they arrived on their dues, and the money was abdicated from currency or capital capital capital capitals, such as other comparable payments and payments on commitments. But the rest of the law was much bigger and more important, i.e. moving the property of the fallen banks and the fallen financial companies into the head of currency, which had been withheld up to that point. This is in effect the prerequisite for everything that has been worked on in the analysis of the habitat's status, the national financial problems associated with their fragments, or their delinquency, etc. It went so, like a snooze. paritaprevir The Árni in Páll's letter to the Árnason traced that the government at that time either voted against the bill or was sitting by. The independent party voted against it after filling the hall with foreign claimors earlier that evening, and the forward party stayed by. Now it might be said that it could not be expected that everyone could see the tremendous power and importance of this law. I'll tell you as one of the partners that at that time I didn't realize how much interests were at stake for Iceland reaching the legal process. I don't think that at that point the Secret Bank realized the national need to make that change. But that was done, and I believe that there is a reason to mention the Secret Bank in that relationship and to commend what is well done. It stood there, as it were, and suggested in time necessary, inevitable, and extremely important changes in law. The same is true of the latecomer today. He's coming to the Generals and asking for certain important preemptive measures in these matters. In contrast, we do. As members of the conference left movement, we will support this bill and be moving because there is strong evidence to make the arrangements there. It is very important to close all possible pathways before the next step with the transfer of an important prime event that we expect to come in here, which has become even more important this weekend. It has to be noted, Mr. President, that the Sentencing Bank issued a special reason for the need for this legal procedure here tonight or night for leaks in DV, which occurred on Friday morning when it proposed that there was a prime tax of 40% stability on the property of fallen financial companies, even where the tax laws were all their property. This has led to tremors over the system, and there have been increased pressures on the planning of roads or for the withdrawal of funds before the tax came. I believe, Mr. President, to the highest. A prime minister would be more likely to apologize to the government for the shameful charges he was facing here and especially for ours. paritaprevir The Árni of Páll's annual son Árnason's call that we were hurting the process of leaking. At least it wasn't us that lays in DV on Friday. [[Are you sure?]] - Yes, I'm sure you will, sir. Secretary of state, because the consultation committee on reimbursement has not been called together for six weeks. We have had to read DV, as with other sworn oaths members of the Convention Committee, since we have not been called. This, however, is a dangerous, harmful, and real leak that no one in the first instance had. I think it's the highest. If a person is now in a position of government, how much more would he be! paritaprevir In particular, Páll Árnason apologized to us and further explained how it can happen to outlining the closed process for a prime project on the removal of a currency has to be done directly through a noted DV journalist and on the front cover of that magazine. [[Hear, hear!]] This leak has increased the pressure on all possible measures to seal possible precautions. This is also an important procedure in which the Generals then have a normal schedule to work with the big issues in which they arise and do not have to throw their hands on those jobs. It should not be a pressure or time pressure at the Generals to complete the huge case that men may be applying some advanced pattern and putting money in front of the tax, behind the currency lords, and from abroad. Mr. President. As I have said, we will support this bill and stand in its transport. I'm not going to waste my time tracking the unique details of the bill, that's what I did. paritaprevir Sigurjónsson Sigurdjónsson in his entropy speech. In a human sense, this is about losing financial companies or financial companies who have been reorganized financially by contracts and any sort of daughter-friendly or connected or others whom they might attempt to establish in the next days will not be used to by means of maintenance loans, responsibilities, by building financial gains, by finding their new models here and abroad, all such possible means of shutting down. We have to hope that we've managed to row here before every Viking, at least Most of them are, depending on the work of the Office on that subject. There is no reason to draw feathers over the complexity of the matter, and we have not had long to enter its unique laws. In the foundation, it's about what I've been trying to put together in English. I expect everyone to have sex. Councilmen agree to close all such paths.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-07-121.u5	Mr. President. As the rest of the people here have spoken, I believe it is of utmost importance that it achieves the best way of working with control and control around the actions needed to lift currency capitals. I believe that this is the most difficult task that the General and executives may have faced from a republican institution. Truly, I wish I could say that I would support the bills we will yet see. I hope I can do that. But I'm in the strange position that I've had nothing to see of them. No one's asked the council. It has not even been introduced to the Conference Committee. Now I hear here today that it is due to be introduced to the media before they are introduced to the council. Let's just leave it alone. What I'm thinking is this is an odd moment in the history of Congress. This is the first time that the Allied party is called on Sunday. It's never happened in the republican season before. There must be something very important. Yes, it is a bill, but the government has been planning this for months. Why is it necessary to do this tonight? Why was that not done last week when the council was sitting here day by day until 12 p.m.? And now, suddenly, the explanation comes out. It comes out of the mouth of a mouth. A senator who spoke earlier at a meeting on a financial and tax committee. And what is the explanation? Just so I can get it straight, I'll ask you why. A member of Parliament: Is it so that the Councilman gave it as one of the explanations for the need to engage in this afternoon's attack, as the chairman of the United States said, that there is a leak from the camp of the government? Is that why the council is called on Sunday night? I just want to get this straight because it was said here so the council understand what's going on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-07-121.u6	Mr. President. In itself, I do not have much to add to my speech. I thought so, and I think it's inevitable to do something about it to others. In this room, members of the council recognize the reasons why the matter is presented in such an unusual way. Of course, it is not customary in general at meetings to quote or the position of the guests on closed committee meetings during Friday morning, but in the case of this case, it would be inappropriate for me to keep quiet about the fact that, yes, we have the words of the money banker that this leak in DV on Friday morning created an agitated, increased pressure and makes it possible that people would not want to wait any longer to go through these legislation and compare the principles of the taking of those laws, when they gain value and do not wait for regular manifestations, so well before eight o'clock, they'll have the expected words to make absolutely enough for them to do something they're doing, those things they're doing, those that could use at the next hours and hours.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-07-121.u7	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for being honest. I believe his assessment is absolutely correct that the council needed to hear this. I reiterate what I've said here before, I believe it's important that we establish a solidarity on this matter. It's complicated, it's legal, and I don't have a basis to understand it fully or empty or time to analyze it. I trust the government in these matters. I trust each other. paritaprevir Frosti for that, too. Those involved in this case apparently feel that this is important, and because of Iceland's interests, I'm going to support the situation as it was assigned here. However, it is absolutely necessary for men to be clear that it was necessary to call the council together for the first time in the Republic Story on Sunday evening because the government does not keep information. That's why the council needs to be called together, because from the government, information leaks that could damage Iceland's interests. Don't need the highest. Will the prime minister answer that question? On the other hand, I have to agree that it's a bit more than a valid torphan under DV. DV has, at least, written into Iceland's history - this is why it is the first time called for a meeting on Sunday.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-07-121.u8	Mr. President. I think for a further explanation, it is proper to say that some of the points here are being suggested in the bill to shut down possible subterfuges that have been known for some time to be in itself theoretically present. Since the late bank has no sign that they were useful, in some respects it is the type of operation that had no particular cause or no leak, it would likely have been wise to do. Of course, we can ask: Why were people not warned about this sooner? Why, for example, was the consultation committee not called earlier on this level? But the bill is also presented for the given reason, the bill has been moved by things that the Navy has seen and seen during the last few days, and that's why we need to rush it through. And it is the evaluation that the weekend has been agitated in this regard.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-07-121.u9	A respectable president. I could see on Web sites that there was so considerable expectation of this Sunday meeting, and some Web sites broadcast directly from the meeting. I guess the families who decided to pop and watch this broadcast might have been a little disappointed. Of course, there is no particular or remarkable issue here. It's just one of the cases that had to come before the council with a considerable hurry to open markets, as it is called, to stop into holes in the currency laws or to stop in the punitive seas. Of course, this law that we sometimes need to act on is one of the best witnesses to the consequences of living with these seas and to be in this eternal battle with large parties who want to get them out of the country in spite of the seas. This was about to happen, but here we are, my fellow Americans and you looking at the live broadcast, not to cut off the oceans. In effect, this is a protruding device. A senator calls here. [[Take it up: harden it.]] And it may sound paradox, but it has to be stopped up into the holes, and the oceans must be tightened before they are released, so that the measures of decommissions that we expect to be introduced tomorrow will be met with the desired results. Well, in the bright future, we support the bill and we're on it, although, at all times, you want more time to put yourself in the complicated language, and all the same, you want to read something else on Sundays than a bill like that, which is the vein of the tube. But we understand the need for this law and understand its speed. However, in view of the discussion that took place earlier, I have to say that it is, of course, odd that a meeting is on Sunday night. This is the first time a assembly is called on Sunday night, and that on a sailor's day. It is, of course, because the government lost control of events, and we saw in leaks at DV on Friday morning, and best to keep it in place that there is concern. I hope that the sequence of events we're taking care of the big primes for execution will be better. And I also advertise, like my other colleagues here at the council, after more consultation in that subject. But I'm going to move in later on.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-06-07-121.u10	Mr. President. The bill that lies before the council allowed us to see the Economic and Business Committee first today, about five o'clock, and therefore we haven't had much time to put ourselves in it. However, we had a good meeting at the Committee where the Secret Bank staff who worked on this department bill introduced it, and we were able to ask, so if we trust the judgment of this staff in this regard, this would seem to be a very responsible procedure. In fact, nothing about the nature of the seams in itself is not really being changed, they are still a capitalist. This is not being transferred into a currency head, i.e. This is not to be transferred to limit currency exchanges when it comes to sales or purchases of goods and services. They're still capitalists. The only thing that's actually being done is shrinking the reserves that have been overcrowded over the years, far too much. They've been in favor of the 90-year-old rule, i.e. If it's to be equal, they've received much more than other Icelanders, pension funds, etc., which have also had to live with these seas. It's just taking off these leaveovers, and it's important, although it was only to do so, even though it wasn't up to us now that we were about to get rid of the capital. But it is especially necessary to do so when we are about to break free. It has been shown in the World Bank case over the course of the period that when you release capital capital goats, it is very important that the whole process can float, i.e. that there are no holes, not leaks, that the ship does not leak when we are about to leave at the perils of a waste disposal. It is responsible if this is done as it is initiated, and my understanding of it is not deep, and as shown in the Office and Ministry case. The effect that leaks or how much we take from the economy, of buying a dollar's currency, can have on this process that we are about to go on at the disposal of has a total of 3,80,140 billion. If you don't stop these holes, you can make up some 80 to140 billion pieces of broilers. Just so we understand the context of this number, a thousand times lower the figure has an effect on gang swings. It would be very irresponsible not to react, even if there is not necessarily a great chance that this is used, so the effect would be that it would be extremely irresponsible not to try not to stop into those holes before we leave on this journey. Adverse reactions to other people are negligible. The bill that humans can read shows that they are negligible. While these exceptions are no longer default, it is being made to ensure that this has no significant effect on those who are only in the usual business, even if the swellings were not going to take advantage of these windows, it is only if people are going to take advantage of the windows. I think it's responsible. This is essential to the future in which we are going. But I just can't do it deep in the matter to appreciate it, and even if I have time, I'm not sure that I would have a special knowledge of it, so I myself will not vote with it, but I am speaking for this as a responsible procedure. If you do well, those who produced this bill and those who offer it are worthy of honor.
