ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u1	There have been two letters from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs that request every month to give written answers to the application requests. 959, for the publication of business banking, from Jón Þór Ólafsson, and on a threshing floor. 1028, of the measures taken to meet the costs of care and health care of the elderly, from Pétur H. Blöndalur.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u2	A respectable president. In my body of Congress, there has been repeated debates as to how difficult it is to get the highest. Prime Minister to give a reply on the matter of government. To be honest, I agreed to tell my hands yesterday when I reviewed this matter, so I would like to apply my words to the highest degree. President. I seem the highest. The prime minister has answered only one of six queries addressed to him in this winter. My members of Congress have at least three questions, all of which have long since fallen. The chairman of the United States, The Árni of Páll Árnason, has had an unpleasant inquiry to prime minister since December 5th. The prime minister should respond in an average of two weeks, but this is now five months. The oldest inquiry is from November 13. We are for a year, and more than that, we have tried to get prime minister to discuss insurance. This is a request for a special discussion on insurance insurance from Ingibjörg Ingjöldur the daughter of Ingadóttir from January, and I understand the highest degree. The prime minister fears discussing the status of the insurance policy and does not want to discuss the status of the housing partners, but there must be some rules to be in effect, a respectable president, and a two - week extension under Congress cannot be 20 weeks. þm. Katrín Jacob's daughter. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u3	The President will look into this. In particular, the president has not examined how the question has been made by individual advisers, but the Office of Generalis has tried to push the question, whether oral or written, to be answered within the specified time period. Therefore, the President will consider this matter.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u4	To answer, financial and economic minister, social and housing minister, environment and resource minister, foreign minister, secretary of state and legislation and agriculture.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u5	A respectable president. I'd like to make the subject the highest answers. Environment Minister for a question I have asked him about the state of peace descriptions in areas and protection initiatives. According to a strategist plan, certain areas of protection are organized and, according to law, should immediately begin working on the peace description of these areas. On October 30, 2013, I received an answer from the highest level. Environment Ministers where specified are all the benefits and all the areas of protection. If I draw them together in a relatively short way, it can be said that they are working to achieve the goals of the law and to complete the terms of peace. All right, that's the answer to work things out, and that's fine. More than a year later, on December 16, 2014, I get an answer to the same inquiry I asked again. It is an artistic answer based on fiction, for it attempts to express the old answer, but when the answers are read together, it is almost the same answer. They're still working on all of this. In other words, it is a transpulsion, a process designed to shape ideas about the expansion of the Lake Earth park. It is in the opinion of whether this area could fall to a lakeland. The area has not yet been cut off. It is not yet clear how the proclamation of peace will be implemented. There is still no conclusion on peace description. There's no precise delinquency available. It is not yet clear how the proclamation of peace will be implemented. Changes have been made. There is still no way to achieve target for the protection of the area. The aim is to link different areas within one declaration of peace. The case is on hold. A respectable president. This is entirely inadequate in what has already been agreed upon at the council for the completion of a peace description of the reservation, especially in view of the seeming lack of peace description of the protected areas, it is legitimate to have new ideas about activation options in these same areas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm asking the highest. Environment Minister for each seat.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u6	A respectable president. I'm glad to have these matters on the program. It is true that these matters are being worked out, but perhaps we have a lot of peace details, and that will slow the matter down. It is also true that the laws are clear regarding the protection categories of a frame plan, that the preparation of national peace descriptions should begin. However, there were details, and there were not sufficient geographic boundaries, precise geographic boundaries, which were not available in January 2013. For one thing, it has been delayed, and it will take longer to negotiate with landowners for the separation of these areas. There are two types of paramours, in effect, three kinds, this is about the box as well as a peace description of nature protection. I say I'd rather put our priority on certain forms of peace and even larger territory, do it carefully, and understand that a state of peace also means that we need to put money on the watch and that it is thought of. Often this has not been taken care of. It's not just that you have to think about the other end, what this will mean for the future about business and the like. Already 20% of Iceland is at peace. That's it. I want us to take care of what we have peacefulally declared and do it well, but we don't necessarily have too many advantages. That's my point.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u7	Mr. President. The highest answer. Environment Minister on why no progress is being made in completing the legal obligation of the Environment Ministry to pursue an area which has been set up in a system of protection and has been approved at the General Assembly of the Icelands to enter a protection program is that there are too many areas of protection. It's the highest. Environment Ministers disagree with the Generals' approval when she says there are too many reservations of protection? V.E.G. Minister's talking about funding. Who made the decision to cut down the funds for peace? Who made that decision in the budget of the year prior to 2014? It was the same one. The minister and the administrative body to which she has decided, made the political decision to cut down the funds for peace, so it is not acceptable, Mr. President, to surface here and say, "There are too many areas, these are too many peace statements, a number of peace statements. This is what the General has agreed to, and there is not enough money. Why isn't there enough money? Because it was decided to cut off from this same position of government. [[The president calls.]] I don't like these answers. This has been approved at the General Assembly. [[The president calls.]] The Ministry, the Executive Director, should work on that. This is not the first instance of a failure to do so. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u8	A respectable president. I appreciate the urgency. I'm gonna take it. All of us in this room know that we need much more money to protect nature. The bill is inside, and I hope that a body of Congress will get its way as soon as possible, so that we can share more funds for our territory's protection. We saw horrible pictures on TV last night of the Gestapo. It certainly must be handled. As I'm saying, I hope we can accept as soon as possible a currency that will provide us with money that we'll expand for the protection of Iceland's nature. My mind is very strong in trying as soon as possible to protect as the Three Bears did. I've got a job going on about trying to make some realistic line about that protection, so I'll answer to some of the questions. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u9	A respectable president. I'd like to speak to the highest. Financial and economic secretary, also chairman of the second administration, on a certain point in the Declaration of the Commission of the Development and Independence Group. In fact, I completely agree with what is stated in the government's policy declaration, that there is a great need for solidarity among the people, and that there is a need to counteract conflict and suspicion, to build trust. Much of the future is formed, and we believe that there are methods in politics to increase sympathy and peace and to build trust, and we share that belief with many members and many other people. For example, we are going to recognize that there are differing opinions and that we should endeavor to accept such views as we do in society. After a collapse, you ran into a very big issue. The government's declaration of policy says: The government will seek to activate the nation's controversies and to counteract the divisive and suspicions that have characterized Icelandic politics and discussions in society for some time. I think it's a nice line. I would have liked to have worked on it, but we see a community rife at this point, a society that will be marked by a very hard debate in the jugular business. There are major issues in the council and in the community that have been for years, are completely up - to - date, such as the debate on activation and protection, the debate on involvement in the European Union. These are all the issues that we see today that can easily be settled if we want to. [[The president calls.]] I just want to ask the highest. Minister, cold food, and quite frankly: Has the government achieved its goal in the middle of the terms, to promote and activate the national cohesion?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u10	Mr. President. I believe we are still dealing with issues related to the fall of financial institutions in 2008 and 2009 that while we are doing this work, it is not reasonable to expect that in a short period of time, the necessary peace that we are seeking will be so greatly achieved by our activities here as well as by others in our society. However, during the last term, a number of major issues that the government has set in a much better way were established by the former government. For example, I'm going to mention a full reexamination of the Constitution with all thebram that it was followed by the former government. We did not feel that our priorities were set in the circumstances during the last term, with all the assault on the constitution that was then under attack. I'm not going to trace all that story. Let me give you another example, all those attacks on the fishing road in the country that took place during the last term, the basic work programme. That did not set a good example for me, nor did I imitate those who follow it. Then I refer to the fact that it really happened every year that a new and new system of the fishing industry was reported year after year. I also refer to the fact that during the last term, there was no agreement with the framework plan. [[How about now?]] So there were political fingerprints in that case. [[The president calls.]] That was the procedure we wanted to point out, but it's still a long way to go, that's right, and particularly show us a job struggle. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] Me and the Icelanders need to work on that situation together.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u11	A respectable president. Once again, government ministers begin talking about their last terms when asked specific questions about this terms. [[Up front.]] I said earlier that we were there during the last term that there was a big issue. I earlier said that I agree exactly with the objective set out in the government policy declaration that work must work decisively to try to make peace with big issues. I say, how does the government do that? It turns out that here, well, they don't actually flow in, but here occasionally comes a matter of Congress from the government, and they're mostly burned up in such matters as development teaming up, where it's the rich will of senators to do well, there's no consultation. [[Up front.]] Why not? And, in private, what is the contribution of the government there to try to bring some calmness to the labour market? For example, it is an amazing penalty over a procedure such as correction, 80 billion set in some way to improve the interests of the households, though it may be disputed, and yet there is a battle state in the labour market. [[The president calls.]] That's an amazing penalty. And the Constitution and the fishing business, the government itself will not even make up for sea distribution, and we will see exactly what will happen to the Constitution and how it will be won. There are many people, including me, who disagree with what happened to them during the last term.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u12	A respectable president. Maybe I could think of it before then. One of the biggest issues in Icelandic society was how the previous government understood the debt problem. That is why it was one of the priorities of this government to accept it. Is it generally discussed here in the community that more action is needed because of domestic debt problems? Are people present in the East, as they regularly did during the last term to protest governments because of inaction in the debt issue? [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[Foreground on: Yes.]] [[Hairsick at the Senate Hall.]] No, it's not here to protest inaction because of the debt. It's not. That's wrong. [[The point is, it wasn't...]] Work has been done to solve the problem, and it is designed to contribute to reconciliation. The European Union. Government policy is in accordance with the request for 70% of voters who do not wish to walk in the European Union. [[Up front.]] We can also discuss the implementation of a national law, which has never been thrown off the table. Government policy in the Constitution is far more likely to create harmony than the situation of solution offered by the former government. That's a fact. In the workplace, it's very thought - provoking, I agree with it. A senator on the point, that at the same time as here one of the largest growths in Europe are equally tense. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] There's a lot you could say about a situation that can't be answered at one time here. Instead of trying to get them worked up, however, let's work together and try to solve these problems. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u13	A respectable president. There's absolutely no need for the highest. The secretary of finance to become so angry that it points to the obvious wars of the government here. But it's gonna be two years since I asked the highest. Secretary of finance for this ICJ inquiry period, the ICJ ICS, tax collections, and foreign Islands, and what he said he would like to do about it. These data are now in the hands of an tax investigator. Of course, this worries us because we have never used such evidence before in Iceland, although the Germans have done so successfully. There's no frame around that operation. Hv. paritaprevir Brynjar Níelsson, former president of the law firm and experienced defender, have described how the use of these laws may be contrary to the law. During our government situation, we have declared that we are ready to pay for the quick treatment of all the cases at the highest level. The secretary of finance has to come into the council to correct this, to ensure that it will be legalized to legalize tax frauds in Iceland, that it will be absolutely certain that it is permitted to use stolen data, that it is entirely possible to buy data without complying with the relevant requirements of accounting, as a financial minister has tried to establish conditions, to guarantee financial resources for the office of tax investigator, etc. We're almost past the deadline, and I'm asking for the highest. Financial Minister: How is it that he has not come up with a Senate case to ensure clear and conclusive legal rights to use such data to buy such data, stolen or acquired, and to use for tax fraud in Iceland?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u14	A respectable president. First of all, when we discuss these matters, I want to call out that we have a balanced, reasonable, and objective discussion. In terms of the work being done in institutions under the Department of Economics, I have never been given a tip that law prevents the agencies, the persons involved in tax research, and the post-traumatic prosecutions of the country, calling for law change, so that further success can be achieved, e.g. the adjustment of the levels referred to here. On the contrary, I have not received any evidence that the data available to institutions cannot be applied because there is no legal evidence. I've set up groups of people to start a new job looking at these things. Among the things I've got in my hands are the idea of a bill of refuge. I notice that in Icelandic politics, people take it today, in politics, and say, "Well, here's clearly the plan to keep offenders from law and order. " Some chosen ones are to be taken out. The fact of the matter is that it has ideas that are in perfect harmony with what our neighbors have been doing, and our main idea is to increase the income of the state and to ensure that the whole community will get a fair share in the taxes to be paid according to law. That's what I'm thinking. It would be acceptable to interpret it on the other side, saying that there would be no such law or other because of the risk that there might be some of the tax research and funerals of the abroad could be achieved, that we could have put them behind the lock and key, then good and well, and it may well be the same in Icelandic politics today, but there is all the odds of a government fund and the taxpayers in the country. [[The president calls.]] I think we need to try to start this discussion on a slightly higher level.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u15	A respectable president. It's strange, of course. The secretary of finance is running and wants to make sure that we finally have the data in our hands, especially when he announces it in the morning after he announces it on the news of the U.S. Radio that the government is not going to give anything. Secretary of finance - in these matters. But I didn't ask about it. I asked why the highest. The secretary of finance has not obtained clear and solid legal laws to use these data when his own senator has in the public field that it is legal to use them and that it is clear to everyone that the vast sums of money that these members will contribute to the defenders in the courts will use these points, legal uncertainty, and misinformation, as they possibly can. The council offers an invitation from the government stand to pay special attention to providing clear and unswerving legal authority so that it will not be by legal instruments, formalities, or other such practices as this can be damaged for legal purposes against those who have committed their property on the Offland Islands and in tax seas. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] I'm not gonna have one, top dog. Minister, moderation, or fair discussion about those members. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u16	Mr. President. I've already answered the question. The answer is that those in the administrative system who are most responsible for the investigation and prosecutors in these matters have not called for law change, have not been able to see that the legal environment in Iceland is a special challenge. That's why this is not a bill for transfuseing the law system in this respect. It is then part of the discussion over the part to wonder how far it would be to go, how far others go in that material, but what I've said before is that we have spent money for tax research to make sure that no one gets away with their duties and assumes their responsibility to pay taxes to Iceland as per law, thus participating in social costs of maintaining the exemplary society we want to build up here. It has not changed that way. And I refuse to allow myself to be accused of being in control of government and the Ministry of finance to provide such a shelter. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] It's all wrong. It's all wrong. It's just a misapprehension.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u17	V.E.G. President. It's all right to the highest. The minister of finance emphasized the will of the government to work progressively to solve debt problems and that it would be a failure to promote reconciliation. I come up here to discuss a certain debt problem, i.e. You know, student loans. We have a news report in the papers today that there is a situation in the collective agreements with BHM because of this problem. Since 2008, academic loans have increased by 73%, from 117 billion to 202 billion. There are two things - the number of students on the one hand, but an increase in the index price of consumption, which, of course, increases the student's loans, such as the mortgage. It was decided to use 80 billion to correct the failure of the acceptable housing bar. I'd like to ask the highest. Secretary of finance whether he feels it is not reasonable to believe that the premise of insurance loans will also be corrected. Does it not care about the increase in their head chairs, such as the mortgage? Is it not a matter of taking decisive steps to resolve this challenge?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u18	Mr. President. I agree with what. In view of the fact that much thought - provoking question is the weight of the payment for many of those who have graduated from college, many are long - term students. The figures discussed today show that many evidently have a substantial amount of payment. Here, though, let us put it this way: Of the money borrowed from a student's loan, the real world will be restored to about half. This is because of the very good advantage of student loans, so it is said that there are, in fact, other dollars paid in student loans of a kind of strength. This, as it were, does nothing easier to repay when the debt level is high and the load of payment is high. But with regard to the load of payment, we again have a rule designed to give a little weight, which means that there is only a certain amount of pay that comes to account each year. I think this is why we should ask if there are any ways to help if the problem is very burdensome to a large group of borrowers, but we should also ask ourselves, " Am I still facing similar dangers and whether there is any need to make adjustments? ' But after all, you just have to take a position on how much in addition to actually driving the school system in Iceland, at least the state school without real schools, how much more are you willing to spend with students, not just during the study period, but then in the later part of your life. And it is natural for the discussion of what BHM and others are currently promoting, how to consider the cost of future salary paid by students. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u19	V.E.G. President. I would like to stress that there is a general solution to this increase in loans at the Icelandic loan fund. Here, 80 billion were granted to correct a failure. I'm asking the highest. Minister again: Isn't this a premise on your credit? If not, why not? Then I'd like to point out that these increases in loans are causing more and more people to pay off when they are retired, which means that they do not earn money. This is serious and can weaken a person's desire for education. I hope we're at the highest. Secretary of finance agree that education is desirable. I repeat the question, is this not a premise?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u20	Mr. President. I thought it was perfectly clear that the government's actions due to domestic debt were focused on the security of mortgages primarily, loans taken to cover a roof. That's what it was about. There are other insurance loans here and where the system, consumer loans, car loans, student loans, a variety of loans, but the government's actions were not specifically designed to focus on them. Here you might note that over a longer period of time, there has been a trend in general that the pay card has increased more than the index price of consumers. This has generally been the development. This might be kept in mind when the student loans are discussed and when it is asked if there was a failure, because they are reimbursed with a certain proportion of pay. [[Up front.]] However, on the basis of the housing situation, the situation was established that we were not simply entering the radar globally in terms of home debt, mortgage debt, but were completely in historical places and that we simply had to respond to the situation because their homes as a basis for society were yielding. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u21	A respectable president. I'd like to review a vote at the council when we agreed on a vacation deal that Iceland made with China. I got convinced and was on the green button, but I'm starting to have doubts that I did the right thing. A U.S. Declaration of Human Rights and Human Rights, as commonly indicated, was published by the State Department of State on the basis of this contract that the Chinese government could not accept. Hence, a special declaration was made that included the respect of both states for the United Nations Convention and that they carried out the ideals of the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights. The Declaration deals with the increased two - sided cooperation of the EU and the regular political consultations that will include discussions on human rights. I don't have to explain it to the highest. Ministers of State or others how gross human rights are broken in China, if only we look at North Korea, Burma, and other places where Chinese governments directly provide foreign military authorities with weapons and then use denial at the United Nations scene when it comes to handling these matters. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister, who will undoubtedly agree with me on how the Chinese government behaves in human rights: What has been done since the contract took place on the part of Icelandic politics regarding communication and negotiations on human rights matters? What has been the result in considering that this is now eight, nine months since the contract went into effect?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u22	A respectable president. I'd like to start by saying thank you. A senator for this question. This is a very important question, and we need to maintain a great deal of control, and of course we have an obligation to take up these matters with the Chinese, as expected in the contract. The contract took formal significance on July 1 of the past. We are still implementing it, that is still working on certain technical factors and things that will take a while to implement. A formal discussion of this point has not yet taken place, rather than a number of others with whom we need to consult. However, we have adopted human rights issues in which we have met with Chinese officials. For example, on my trip to China, I took the matter up against my colleagues and others we met there. You're right about what you're doing. A senator, this is something we can't give off when this process, this contract, and these things all start to work as expected of them, we need to ensure that the agreement is cultivated, just as we have regular consultations with other parties we deal with, including business agreements. For example, we have a regular business arrangement with the Russians, we have defence groups with the Americans, etc. and then, of course, we need to adopt the issues we are entitled to. I can assure you what. There will be no discount by discussing these points with the Chinese.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u23	A respectable president. Thank you very much. Minister for the answer and urge him to act. I suppose this applies to all Ministers, I understand that. The Minister of Education is in China or has gone to China, so hopefully he'll hold these matters up there. The reason for my recording is that there is evidence that human rights in China are getting worse. For example, on March 16, a report stated that the Chinese authorities imprisoned almost 1 of you. Last year there was an increase in human rights. There are almost as many arrests as there were the previous two years. There is also reports that five women were arrested on March 6 because of suspicion that after planning an event on the international date of women's engagement on March 8, the past. They have five years of imprisonment, computers, mobile phones, and many material confiscated. It's such a gross violation of human rights that I feel we have to break down. Instead of going through some polite conversation of some hipshaps, I wondered if it's the highest. A foreign minister cannot wield and make declarations and may take the initiative to point out that we are not at peace with these developments. [[Let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's go, let's ……]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u24	A respectable president. I thank you again. A senator for bringing this matter to the attention. It is quite clear that it is not only ministers who take these matters up with Chinese people or others that we cooperate with when it comes to human rights, whether through business agreements such as this case or any other agreements, because we were discussing evolutionary issues. We're working with countries where a lot of pots are broken when it comes to human rights and we're taking these cases up with them. It is a pleasure to see here that, in the United States, we cannot accept violations of human rights, whether in the Chinese or anyone else. You're right about what you're doing. A senator's duty is to call attention to this. The way it is, however, there is something that we must, of course, review and discuss, but we will point out the sort of violations of human rights that we believe our partners act, we will take them up on as soon as possible. I think we must be not afraid, and we are not afraid to bring this up. It doesn't matter who. [[The president calls.]] It has always been part of Iceland, such as internationally speaking statistics, such as talking in the United Nations about serious violations of human rights. There are other bigger countries that may not be ours to care for. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u25	V.E.G. President. I was having a conversation with the highest. Secretary of finance to correct the principle of student loans. I'd like to come up here for that reason and complain because February 3rd I asked a question to the highest level. Education and cultural minister on costs of such correction on the same terms as used to correct the mortgage, but the answer has not been received and no announcement of a comment has been made. Now March is running its course, and it looks like I'm not getting this answer for Easter. I present concerns as well as those of Iceland's government that these debts do not seem to rest in Icelandic homes and be a burden on them. When it comes to these matters, the government shows great indifference.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u26	The president will come to these indications to the Ministry of Education and Culture and will follow through on an answer.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u27	A respectable president. This bill suggests that there will be changes to existing legislation involving international security issues within two main areas. They are subject, on the other hand, to the access of foreign Member States and to the more efficient introduction of international commitments to the freezing of funds and related matters related to forced operations. I allow me to sum it up in short terms, but in other respects, I refer to the more detailed comments the bill brings. First, it is suggested that the law's implementation regulations be changed in order to meet the demands of the United Nations Security Council and the financial system on a faster publication of a list relating to the freezing of terrorist organizations. Second, the current legislation on the establishment of foreign Kingdom ships and state airs into the United States is updated and made clearer, but today the supply of resources for government travel to Iceland is based on an out - of - date directive in 1939. The setting of these provisions provides a more effective modern correction and also reflects the modern - day legal developments that have taken place in the past few decades, including those in the United States. through the development of international transport contracts. I'd like to make a special statement that there's nothing to do with the permit itself. There is no room to expand beyond what is already there. There is no change in local society or anyone else's authority on this bill. These articles are only being used today. No sources are being raised, so it is clearly stated. Third, it is suggested that trade be banned by certain products, mainly by human rights and humanitarian grounds, and these products are raw from war zones, called bloodmelons, tools for torture and the death penalty. Fourth, there are available sources to participate in international forced labor operations by agreeing with the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee. Finally, there is a provision to facilitate foreign investments in the companies of this region, which produce protective products or products that have a dual use value, i.e. products that are both civil and military. I would like to know that the president of the FAFF, the Department of Money, came to a country in January. with a delegation meeting both Prime Minister and Minister of the Interior as well as a representative of the minister of foreign affairs. Among other things, he discussed international commitments over money frauds, which are important because of bank operations here. The bill is intended to meet one of the three main proposals of the Agency that involve the freezing of terrorist funds and the organization mentioned earlier. The other motions depend on the sponsorship of the money-student agency, which is being made in the bill at the highest level. Minister of the state of state to change the law on the treatment of criminal affairs, and this is before the council. The third recommendation involves a change in money regulations that will be in preparation for the State Department. The changes proposed by the bill are designed to strengthen Iceland's office on a international scale, and I have no reason to believe that they will. Finally, I suggest that the case be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u28	Mr. President. I believe the bill we have here is due to the highest. Minister serves a very positive purpose, as I have understood it. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister whether this has anything to do with the ability or ability of Iceland to hinder or prevent a similar event that happens in the past decade when some Icelandic airspace took off a civilian plane than new international intelligence services and, like the Supreme Court. Minister knows, to transfer prisoners from countries where they were treated inhumanely. I ask him if the subject of the bill has anything to do with it or if it allows some kind of stronger resistance to the Icelandic government to prevent it. It's like the highest. Minister knows, if he did not participate as a senator in discussions about it at the time, I believe and others that Iceland's stay friends have been abused. Also, I would like to be curious about the cryoconservation of possessions that are evidently designed to hinder the transfer of capitals to promote terrorist activity, if there are any examples of the laws that are now under law that have been used directly for a similar purpose.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u29	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for these questions. First of all, I do not remember or at least recognize that these principles were applied in a special way. A senator asks about freezing money. That may be without me remembering it right now. Regarding the other question, Is this related in any way because civil funerals have been new, like the oar? A senator rightly pointed out, in action that is not very helpful to us, actually, only the things that are already there will be strengthened. So today it is said that the laws and laws we use today are not really new. However, it should be noted that it was explained, if I recall correctly during the last term, well. A senator may remember it better than I, in the past administration or whether it was in the past. a former senator Ingibjörg Sólrún Gísladóttir, permission to enter a machine and find out what was on board. In fact, I think that part of this operation is being carried on by the State Department, but after this case came up here at the time, the government went to explain the procedure about being able to look more closely at what is being carried into civilian machines but is clearly in the place of someone else.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u30	V.E.G. President. We'll discuss a bill to correct a change in the law on international security issues, etc. This bill may be said to be different, with adjustments in various laws, but all of them are in common to take up military or military matters in some way. In many cases, only regulations that are already valid are being placed in place. However, these are regulations that my associates and I make in the left movement ◯ green supply in some cases disagree or place at least a large question mark on us. I'm gonna start with the beginning, in I. and II. section of the bill is proposed to change air travel laws, No. 60/1998, with subsequent changes in foreign state air transport access and changes in water monitoring laws, No. 41/2003, with subsequent adjustments to the access of foreign ships to the Icelandic country. I find, first of all, a rather peculiar expression of what is commonly called a military warplane, especially if you see in the caption that the law is designed to extend to the state flights for military purposes which according to my understanding are nothing more than warplanes. A report says: The above rules should be understood to use a pilot to define its state and not its ownership. For example, if a commercial plane is used for normal passenger transport, the standard procedures for civilian flights apply. Government flights may be civil or military, including a passage intended for customs or law enforcement. Later, says: Warfare is any flight under the military command of a foreign state or an international agency. In 1st. This bill says, by permission of the President: ▪ The secretary decides which places to which to attend and how to travel within the Icelandic realm are available. Il. section 2, g., is similar to the text, but it deals with the access of foreign Kingdom ships. It says, by permission of the president: ▪ The secretary decides which places a foreign government ship can attend and how its journeys should take place within the Icelandic realm. V.E.G. In the beginning, the minister of foreign affairs stated that no existing authority is being made up, or used, of modern wording only. Then I can see just how this law is spoken in the bill but that it is quite clear for the purpose of the bill. As far as I can see, there's some kind of objection to the fact that former more part of the city, more part of Best Class and Group Group with former mayor Jón Gnarr, in the head of the city, spoke very clearly of wanting to ban every form of warships in the port of Reykjavík as well as landing of military planes at Reykjavík's airport unless there's an emergency. It may well be that this was primarily a political statement by former mayors, but I still feel that with this bill it is harder to make rural society more difficult for them to have independent opinions about it and to decide for themselves what extent a military vehicle is allowed to travel through their territory, so that it has its own policy in what kind of government would like to do in its country because it is clearly stated that it is the Minister who decides this, not the local government. In fact, it may be said that it was at odds with what local governments themselves can decide when it comes to military exercise or storage of weapons on their land and perhaps primarily to the storage of nuclear weapons. It's not a new debate at all, and it's not a single conversation in Iceland either. In many parts of the country, local governments have developed the tradition of promoting peacemakers by peace - keeping banning the storage and treatment of nuclear weapons. I'll take nuclear weapons as an example, but, of course, any other weapon can be taken into account. In effect, this position is due to the early 1980's, when the nuclear threat reached its climax, where the superpowers set up short and average rockets in many continents of Europe, as well as to the full use of nuclear arms with both ships and subs. In some cases, only local governments had a symbolic preparation, but this has also been an example of more serious handling matters in which the city authorities have just tried to prevent the transfer of weapons of their own territory. This discussion stretched its scent here in Iceland. In the year 2000, the International Organization Ablition made 2000 major campaigns and encouraged urban and urban governments worldwide to rid themselves of nuclear weapons, but the initiative to take this initiative has come from the mayors of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. In Iceland all the rural communities in the country have, except for three signed under such declarations of peace. It's really fun, I don't know if it's possible to talk about fun in this context, but it's rather interesting to have an interesting friend in the debate over the authority of the local government and what power of the government, that when a request was sent to Smokenestown at the time to see if they wouldn't participate in this peace-telling project, Lenjanestown turned the message to the Ministry of State. The local government apparently felt that the State Department should answer the question about whether the local community could identify itself as a peacemaker against nuclear weapons. It was already 2008. paritaprevir Össur Skarphéðinsson was the minister of State, and the office of the Department of Defense, Þórir Ibsen, responded to the counsel of Smokeynestown, but, according to the Ministry's answer, according to the President's permission: It is reported that some 100 rural communities in Iceland chose to register in a list of peace-informed communities. It will only be seen that such participation is the sole place in a community of automates. There comes an understanding from the Ministry that rural society has a lot to say for itself what course they want to take when it comes to arms or weapons storage on their land. To me, this is an important introduction to the discussion that a minister can arrange for a military trip to the Icelandic territory. For example, it is relatively easy to limit the spread or ability of warships to cause the wish. However, there is a statement that rural society is self-imposed to forbid nuclear weapons in its own country, but such weapons do not directly respect national boundaries, much less regional boundaries. I have long felt that it is very important for my rural society to have quite a few things to say for themselves. Perhaps it is fun to remind you in this context that I have already provided a bill, which, though, I have not yet been able to recommend at the General Assembly to change the law of environmental impact assessments where I suggest it to exercise, including low-rate non-security and security exercises, will be evaluated for environmental impact, including in accordance with the fact that individual local governments have made wishes to resist the exercise of their country. I see my time is running away, but I want to finally say that even though I've stayed with I. and I. section of the bill, I also put large question marks on both III. and IV. The section that discusses the enlarged sources of the minister of state to use forcedness measures and what we can sell to weapons production countries within the European Economic Area. [[The president calls.]] Since my time is up, I may be able to do this in a future talk.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u31	A respectable president. It's not exactly an answer, I just want to see about the locals debate to reiterate what I said before, there's nothing in this law that changes what society can do today. It is not taking anyone right or turning aside from what has been before, at all, that is not being done. They are mainly being updated, explained, and at the same time strengthening the existing sources - they are not being changed in any way. For restrictions, pressures and such, e.g. when it comes to producing things that are subject to double use values, in arms, something like that, it is just to strengthen a minister's authority to set limits, ban, or intervene. These sources are not being weakened today but are being made clear and strengthened. We know that there are ongoing developments in the production of a variety of tools that can have double use, can be used both in civil and military activities, and it is considered important that this source, which is available today, is clear and more robust. There's not much to produce on any of these devices, software or anything like that in Iceland. However, there is and this is mainly a possession, that most of Icelandic jobs, etc. are used by people who invest, or own, these companies. They're trying to explain things, and they're trying to give us a better tool to hold it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u32	V.E.G. President. Even if there is nothing to be changed but a word from what is available in the current law, it does not mean that you necessarily agree with what has been in the law or how it has been practitioned. Because this bill is here for a discussion in which it is very clear that a minister has the authority to decide and because it has been fraught with me, I think it's very important to introduce it here in this discussion and to emphasize what I think is very important, the spontaneous community's rights. That's what I wanted to do here with my speech. In terms of changes in surveillance laws of services and items that may have military significance, and I did not get into my speech properly but will perhaps do afterwards, I do not agree to suggest the limitations or prohibitions of exporting such products. I'm not at all. However, since I am a peacemaker, I must put a question mark on the fact that, still, it is permitted to sell such products within the European Economic Area, and there are certainly some very large weapons - making countries. As a peacemaker, I must put a question mark on it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u33	A respectable president. Regarding this funeral, there are decades of practice. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has had this role, such as the Ministry of State or other Ministry, after incidents in other countries. These provisions must always be granted when funerals that can be considered a Kingdom funeral or are involved. For example, when royal people are being moved, they need to be announced. For the business, it is proper to state that, for example, one Icelandic company is producing submarines, so that it is mentioned, amazingly large and cool, and with great goods. This device can be used for civil and military purposes, and there are many complex and complex solutions that need to be solved. Can these equipment be sold for this country and not for the others? Who owns this company, is it more of a foreign possession? We'd like to let them, etc.? These are equipment that is important, e.g. For the development of Iceland, for science, for technology, for knowledge, this is a knowledge firm called Gvia, it reminds me. We certainly do not want this company to keep growing and caring for what it is doing. But there's a line we have to do. Moreover, we do not want the tools produced there to be used for military purposes. For example, this equipment is one of those who will survive a year or something like this, and I don't quite remember the time, probably not being able to sell to Russia, for example, because of the forced labor that we are involved in. [[Up front.]] The agreements currently in force for this company with the Russian government or business continue to hold on to their values. This is an example of how it works, this system we have here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u34	V.E.G. President. I believe that foreign warships or foreign military planes have no business in Iceland. They want to photograph the former mayor's section in Reykjavík described. But as long as the law is at hand with a minister, you cannot help but request a minister to respect the wishes of local government and follow that if the government does not want to receive military vehicles, a minister does not force it to force it to do so. Regarding the equipment, it is true that there are plenty of things that can be used for both a good purpose and a very bad purpose. What I'm worried about is that there is no guarantee of how this item will be used when sold to countries within the European Economic Area. Nor is there anything that says that something that can be used for good purposes and bad is always used for bad in Russia. What I'm pointing out is that from the viewpoint of the peacemaker, there is really little protection against the use of Icelandic production for military purposes.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u35	Mr. President. It's not every day that we're talking at the General Security or Defense Parliament, and it's a little difficult for many people to see the end of the Icelandic national soul, the military effort, I think it's safe to say. I'm not going to extend this discussion in particular. In many ways, I can say well, and in the chapters of a well - learned talk. paritaprevir The Steinunn of Þóra Eagle's Árnadóttir. I'd like to put in a little bit of 1st. Several things we should consider about the treatment. This is an explanation, such as the highest. The minister of state entered, in some respects, the way things have been placed so far. I miss it only, and I'm in places similar to what I'm doing. paritaprevir Þóra Árnadóttir, that I feel that I am missing from the air travel and sailing section that to some extent, it is to consideration the self - determination rights of rural society. In Iceland it is so that except for the Cheflavor airport, as far as I know, which is defined to some extent as a military fortress, our ability to transport is not a military fortress. I don't know that there are any ports here to form that are specifically defined as military goats. That means that the military devices, flying or sailing that come to this country, will use civilian facilities, whether at airports or at ports. Therefore, I would prefer to agree with or at least in conversation with the rural communities who control these manpowers or whose subsystems, such as the ports of the same rural society, would be less likely to be involved in the bill or the report. I miss it a little, so I like to think about it. A senator before me suggests that many rural societies in Iceland have developed a special policy when it comes to certain weapons, both nuclear weapons, but you also provide illegal weapons, such as chemical weapons, or even controversial weapons, such as clusters and phosphorus bombs, etc. In fact, it should be in full agreement with Iceland's foreign policy, peace - loving and warless country, at least taking into account such declarations and policy in rural areas. I also make a small account of the fact that there is a secretary of state, or the minister of foreign affairs, as it is said, hidden authority, but not specifically indicated that it should be in accordance with Iceland's foreign policy. This may be a bit of a wording, but I think it's important since Iceland has a special position. If I recall, Iceland is one of the second or third largest warless countries on earth and has a rich and long tradition of being warless and of speaking for global peace and peaceful solutions. In this context, because this is in many respects one of the sadties of our foreign politics and long - term foreign policy and has been, I think there would be a number of factors that would strengthen the particular witness to foreign policy. These are mostly those points I wanted to bring along in connection with III. The section on forced action and the law on monitoring services and items that can have military significance. I think there's a lot of things to explain. Perhaps it is evidence of our love for peace and for the government of Iceland that in many respects our legislation is not very clear and in some respects may become a little old - fashioned when it comes to these conventions. First and foremost, I wanted to account for these points, and I think it's important that they follow into the rest of the job.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u36	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Proppé is known for having a deep - seated sense of humor, and I take it so that it is especially of Ironic tendencies. A senator stresses the urgent need for this bill to refer to Iceland's foreign policy so that any smell of the state's people will speak in one voice. So I'm referring to the fact that we have now spent two days discussing the need or the need to put down an entire government agency directly that Iceland's foreign policy is interpreted with one voice. I have no pleasure in thinking that this is the case. A senator puts his finger in, mainly that it is not clear enough whether societies had continued their right and space to state which course they have in these matters, is a matter that we on the foreign committee can consider. I think it's quite possible to tie it, and I think it needs it. In the opinion of the committee, after the incidents of a minority mask if the majority do not agree, I believe that it must be absolutely clear that the rural communities have their right to state their policies in these matters. However, I do not feel as the law was written today that it could be anything but a statement on their part. At the very least, they would have to make significant adjustments in legal requirements. However, I note that Iceland's policy has been clear in these issues since Prime Minister Steingrímur Hermannsson was in 1985 and gave clear statements made by the then foreign minister. That's the statement we've always referred to, and I don't think anyone has to go surmounting to what Iceland's position on the power of nuclear warships or the fear of jurisdiction. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u37	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for, well, I don't really call it a question, but the notes, and I just want to say in the light of his words about my humor. A senator can be the best of senators. When it comes to the discussion, we share the value of a sense of humor. But when I discussed the relationship with Iceland's foreign policy in this context, I wasn't just laughing, not really. I mean, it would actually strengthen the article that it would be clear that Iceland's foreign policy was being referred, especially on the basis of its reflection of Iceland's peace and arduousness, and has long been doing. A senator pointed out. I saw this as a greater possibility of strengthening the article than the other. When it comes to my country's personal decision rights, I think we're gonna what we're gonna do. A senator will agree. I am very close to the country's right to declare certain policies. Sadly, we have experience from the fact that Iceland's monuments have been used for a purpose, which is at the highest level questionable, such as for a prisoner transport, so there are no guarantee that they could support somehow conditions for granting permission, etc. Convergence with rural society can also be a matter of having something to say about the site of manpower, e.g. harbors, ships are in position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u38	Mr. President. My wife is growing very much. On the other hand, when I read this bill and saw the physical reference to the discussions that have taken place here during the past few weeks, I could not avoid getting a little tickle in my ironic nerves. Minister of Foreign Ministers on a famous Brussels expedition as well as on the discussion of the Developmental Cooperative Agency. Hv. A senator pointed to the need to refer to Iceland's foreign policy. Of course I agree. That's right. That's right. That's right. Ministers for putting down the development network that foreign policy needs to be clear. We were at a meeting earlier, which made it clear that there was no blurred subject. But then I notice. Senator on Level 3. This bill. She's a little big. It is shocking that certain activities of the European Commission are not permitted unless they agreed with the State Department. It is quite remarkable to see it used in this way into the law, underlining what was said here at its time, ten days or two weeks ago, that foreign affairs have a different place in the government arrangement than in other lawsuits. This is reflected in the fact that in more than one place and more of these, special consultations are made with the Council by the State Department of State. It's not that I will refer in this manner to any other legal group or professional committee. On the other hand, I agree with that at the moment. A senator that when we review these matters on the committee, he is likely to try to find the most comprehensive agreement on how we can accept this bill, which I think is good, without anyone believing that it would interfere with the privacy of a community, the public, or the nation, to have a particular opinion, in fact, the opinion that has been validated since 1985. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u39	Mr. President. I can't help but agree with what. Senator. Perhaps in view of the recent issues and weeks in connection with foreign affairs, both in Congress and in public matters, about the value of diplomacy when it comes to foreign matters, how we evaluate the agreement with the Council, I believe that it is important to us in our foreign affairs that we clarify matters better if there is something. Let's increase the size and prolong the gap we're about to strike to make sure they're holding. [[Take it up for: hour of speech.]] If we want to enter a new process, a tradition that Iceland's foreign policy will stand - fine example from 1985 as a matter of course. I think it's important that we strengthen this by the law and the bills we offer. In this context, I would like to mention in particular that this is certainly an approved consultation with the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee. That's well, and there's a firm confirmation like a cog. A senator mentioned traditional order, but here is no more than the first day exactly when it should be addressed, whether to take place before or after. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u40	Mr. President. Hv. paritaprevir Proppé, at the end of his talk, I believe that there is one of the cornerstones in the work of the Generals, i.e. that the Council meets with the Commission to shape foreign policy. I'm what? A senator completely disagrees when he says that there is any question about whether an appointment with a foreign government committee should take place before or after a decision is made. There is no doubt in my mind. It is not according to the traditional way of understanding the Icelanders of the meaning of the word, unless it is functional, unless it is done in a way that the government is being made, the execution of a hearing for all the members of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and then their attitude, and the following events take into account. I can agree that it may be difficult for me to believe that if there are opinions divided within the State Department and Congress to directly say that the government has to, according to the Constitution, to take a firm stand on that basis. I believe, however, that as politics have developed and the understanding of democracy, the political government is very difficult if it is not impossible to resist the will of a large part of the nation if it has been expressed strong, let alone if there is also a much smaller part of the council, which is similar to the view and provided more of the nation. That's exactly what I wanted to say. That's my opinion. You may wonder, " Is this because of the bad necessity that is inserted into the law? ' Like what? A senator, although not here for a long time, has found many primes, and there is little doubt that a return to history was needed to make a decision by looking at existing laws, this is rare. This, however, is not unique. But I'm celebrating this bill, and I think it's a good thing to do at the top. Secretary of state. I believe that in particular because the government has been questioned about what is involved with a foreign government committee, it is good that it is emphasized in this way and that it should be done as far as it goes. I note, though, that in the days of various former governments there has been an absolutely clear violation of similar principles, perhaps not materially, of those who are now in the law of Congress, but certainly they had the same meaning of many people. However, this has been explained by a subsequent change in Congress law, and I think it is clear exactly what the will of the Council is about the newness of this law. I find it understandable that in a discussion such as this, in discussing the management of the European Commission on both foreign and foreign government ships on the economic history and the territory of Iceland, people will raise up what has always been one of the fundamental factors on foreign matters and is our position on nuclear weapons. It is so that while their societies cannot shape the foreign policy of the United States, they can still express their will. I remember that when I examined how Iceland's rural communities had expressed their position by formal approval in their field, I was a little surprised. It came out of nowhere then, I think, that some 74 societies had declared their nuclear failures. They had expressed it with firm agreement that they did not want any tools or tools that were run, driven by nuclear force, or intended to commit some kind of injury or to use in war. If you examine the number of people living within the 74 countries, it is 94% of the population. In Iceland, there are only 17,000 people, or some years ago, when I was in the State Department, who live outside nothing of nuclear space. It's very important. However, this is not inconsistencies with the policy established by governments, although, indeed, it may not be completely clear, using the poor language that I and I use. paritaprevir Proppé occasionally wondering between us, she may not be completely struck in a gap, as men say on the beach. I would like to note, however, that every street since 1985, when it was then a great political officer, the Steingrímur of Hermannsson, and another one at his side as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Geir Hallgrímsson, has been absolutely clear in that respect. It is that nuclear weapons are not stored in this country, and it also includes military vessels in Icelandic jurisdiction. In accordance with that policy, a foreign minister, who does not come from the advance, United States or the left wing, but from the Independence Party, is totally in the opinion of the Independence Party that the cruise of nuclear weapons of Icelandic jurisdiction is forbidden, as is their turn to port in Iceland. This was the attitude of Geir son of Hallgrímsson, minister of the Independence Party, which he announced on April 16, 1985. It has been referred to many times. At that time and many times later, after a detailed application, Geir Hallgrímsson and others that followed made it clear that they did not feel the need for further development. But policy is in place. In case of a moment. The members of Congress believe that the need to enter the bill or to comment on their position or the Senate that the bill, if it is legal, does not mean nor does it mean that the country's communities would accept conclusions from the way I referred to it should be the prerogative authority. It's simply in line with Iceland's foreign policy. This made it necessary for me to be made clear here and to include in the discussion the previous statements that have never been changed. So at least this point, we three of us who have been discussing these matters and all of us on the State Department of State are expected to be able to persuade our dear comrades from the management team to, those who might know, I'm not going to make up any opinions, but those who might know of the conservativeness of their soul to raise them some limit. Other than that, I believe that Iceland must have a law frame that allows it to share fully in international cooperation. This may mean that we are in the same league with a group of nations within the Atlantic Community, in the EEA. We have special peoples of friendship that we have committed to the preservation of the part of our national sovereignty. The bill presented here helps us to cooperate, and especially where the focus is, with the United Nations in the Safety Council. This bill, perhaps having four or more basic five elements, is designed to make our participation more practitioner. For example, it is clearly stated in the bill known for a long time in the administrations, that for instance, when we engage in a variety of forced activities aimed at freezing the funds of those who may have used them in an unstatutory purpose that international treaties take some time to install it in Icelandic law. I think it took three months, even though it's a rare exception in Icelandic law that allows for the introduction into foreign languages, so it doesn't have to be translated, but it's still the process. In the fast century of technology, everyone knows that those who are to be treated with force are, of course, long ago, if needed, already have their funds moved. What we will discuss and deal with this particular aspect will make this much quicker, perhaps shrinking this period to three days and possibly achieving its purpose. I don't even know if that's enough, though, but it's very positive. I asked the highest. Minister: Has this ever been used to make sense to prevent some form of terrorist activity when Iceland might have been used as a washing machine for money? V.E.G. A minister said he didn't know, and I don't know about it either. This does not change the fact that even if our territory is very small, it is morally important. It is important that all nations take part in such action because they show determination and the strength of such action against those to whom they are to be treated. I'm not talking about any other nations. I've done the first thing about Article 3. This bill, which I am very pleased with because it clearly states that the forced action we are participating in with the international institutions, is to be agreed with, not after they have been carried out, but before. According to this, it is not possible to understand it any other way. What is new, I think, in this bill, is that there are cohesies, i.e. the operation of fellow nations in various areas. We've had, not just legal rights or equipment, to carry out the forcedness procedures adopted by the Council of Security but directly directed, to do so. But it seems to me that this bill gives the administration a new right and a new space to join with various measures. Both the highest. Ministers and some who made a sound to give an answer have wondered about Article 5. in which an integrated holding part of an enterprise that makes things that could be used for destructive military purposes should not exceed a target, i.e. There must be an Icelandic majority of these enterprises. It may have raised some restrictions on abuse, but I felt that there was a strict prohibition on the transfer of such weapons from one country to the nations on specific lists. The firm as the highest. The minister mentioned is an illustrated example of a company that has at times come to mind for these reasons. It produces equipment that can be used for weapons. A certain element, especially the software of these subs at the highest level. For example, a minister might be able to use for harmful purposes outside the submarines himself. You need to take such a good look at it. It doesn't change that I don't think we have any authority to prevent those in the EEA from having more shares in these companies. Although this is a wall building, it is likely that all who want to shop with weapons and get some of these things to them and continue to get them to live in the EEA and try to opera from there. Of course, you can say that there are some barriers all around it, but at least as far as Iceland is concerned, I'm suggesting it. Another part of this bill is excellent. I made it clear that in recent years, a subject for which it would be possible to prevent the unwork that we had seen in recent years that Iceland's airspace, such as many nations, has been severely abused by a friending state of ours, a veritablely abused by the U.S. senators to break international commitments. If it is determined will, it is difficult to resist, but at least on the committee, I believe that this or after the events of another device should be considered as the highest level. The minister counted, and it seems to him to be correct in saying that within the state office area, you could screw harder to prevent this. It's bloody hard to look to the past and see that we may have been abused as a nation for that purpose for hundreds of times.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u41	V.E.G. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Skarphéðinsson's exposé for the speech and fun to see and hear that we are here a considerable number of interested people, who want to contribute to our efforts so that our rural communities can have something to say on whether they represent the lack of nuclear weapons on their land. Today, all the rural communities of the country, except for three, have signed such a peaceful profile, covering virtually all the land with small exceptions, toward which all the rural communities have published a clear will in these areas. I'd like to ask you what. In his vision of other holyols, battleships, military planes, which do not carry nuclear weapons, and exercise, a member of the council. If so, like nuclear weapons, rural society would not want to traffic such devices in their jurisdiction, it would be a problem. A senator's ability to produce such statements is just as clear? He thinks he's at the highest. So, then, should a minister take into account the opinion of the local community, even though it is in the terms of this bill that it is a minister who has the authority to decide?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u42	Mr. President. I generally believe that rural society can have any opinion they want. They can come to a conclusion about anything. Such conclusions are primarily valid in supporting a particular cause, a particular course. It doesn't change, as I said in my first speech, that such conclusions do not have the legal value. If we're talking about the absence of nuclear weapons and declarations in the state of rural society, it's likely to compare with what at least. Iceland's formal foreign policy is still present. If it refers to ships and airplanes in army or to military forces of other nations, practice, e.g., I believe that although it is only possible that rural society has some opinions on this and agreed conclusions, they cannot tie the government's hands against enforcing laws or international commitments. For military exercises, I view it as hard to decide on the government that no such exercise should be done, e.g. such as those who have been and were in the past government, training for natural disasters, and in what way might help Icelanders. As for any type of commitment associated with international commitment, I think that even if the local community would violate it, they will not be able to rule it out, but it would certainly be difficult to keep out military exercises within a certain community if it were completely against it. Hv. A senator knows all of this far better than I do, and I don't remember whether one community has exactly taken a stand against that. As I know it, it's primarily about nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u43	V.E.G. President. I'm afraid I'm afraid to tell you whether any community has exactly opposed military exercises, but I suspect that they've breathed it but I don't know it well enough to have the courage to claim it here and now. But that mine knows it's supposed to be the dark rights of a community, e.g. Because exercise is highly contaminated. Farmers are expected to have a strong right to protest that such contaminating activities are taking place in their territory. I'd like to ask you what. A senator also to 5th degree. the bill that discusses the surveillance of services and things that can have military significance. The Senator said in his speech that a state we cannot sell such items for can land within the European economy, and then there may be little work to be done, because I think we agree completely that we don't want to sell things or help a state to make weapons. Then I'd like to ask. A senator for companies that are already active in the European Economic Area and are producing weapons. What can we do with them? Do we not have a moral obligation to try to keep them from being sold into weapons? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u44	Mr. President. I haven't looked over the legal columns in this subject for a few hours and I'm sure that it's the highest. The minister of foreign affairs is much more fresh in this regard, probably prepared well for this bill. I don't know better than that there are some clear regulations in the Icelandic law that we can't sell from part of the country, including developed parts, if we fall programs or software underneath, to companies that are in military production, where the product is sold to countries that have some kind of black art and that do not work for any partnerships at all. That's how I think the rules are. That's what I meant about that it was probably built around the EEA, but the other thing I know is that wall isn't very good either. Many European countries have significant revenues for the export of weapons, parts, whole weapons and large, for example, one recent EU country, Croatia, an incredibly large part of its export in the form of military exports. These countries all go, at least The government in them, to set rules. But we do know that it is an enormous tradition for arms sales in these countries, and there are presumptuous men who have practiced weapons smuggling for decades, a man ahead of a man, even a respectable firm who has been convicted of high fines in these countries, except for all those who are opera underneath the surface. So I think Iceland is much better off because of our small and knowledge in the vicinity of our area to stop and prevent such than the big countries in Europe. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u45	V.E.G. President. I'd like to thank you for the excellent discussion that has been conducted on bill to legalize the law on international security issues, and thank you very much. Secretary of state, and others who have spoken, thank you very much. Árnadóttir For a very detailed, good, and up - to - date talk that she gave on the subject, however. paritaprevir Óttar of Proppér, who suggested that the bill be added to the right of the rural society to influence who could visit ports and airports in their territory and course. paritaprevir The Aggressor of Össur's Skarphéðinsson, who referred to tradition, previous statements on nuclear weapons and Iceland. All of this was very illuminating. The bill covers five factors and is listed in the report with the bill. First of all, there are rules regarding foreign government access. As we have seen, the term "kingdomism " is a code name used in the bill on warships and warplanes. This may be the factor that has been most discussed in this discussion, and it has been noted that the ultimate authority is at the minister's with authority to visit harbors and airports. Congress officials have noted that there is a need for legal righting of the local society's will, and as I said before; the evidence has been made that representatives of all political parties in Iceland have expressed opposition to the coming of a nuclear warship or an airplane. In the mid - 1980's, please note that the government does not want nuclear weapons to be stored here. I agree with the people who want legal action in the law what the community's right in this matter. The second factor mentioned in the bill is the quicker release of the arts of terrorists and organizations when they have to freeze their money. For the most part, it may be technical, that reports and lists can be referred to on the website of the UN or the European Union's Security Council or other institutions. However, there is reason to pause whenever such a list is spoken of. Let us remember that Iceland was put on the British Government terrorist list to secure British interests. We were there identified as a terrorist organization, including the ability to freeze our possessions abroad. So we should always be careful when it comes to such factors. Third, there is the authority to facilitate the application of forced action in cooperation with the cooperation of the European Union. It's right here that I'm stopping. I have serious doubts about this. The subject is being referred to, and it is then outlined in a paper with the bill and natural in the Law chest to expand the government's ability to participate in forced operations. Until now, international institutions, such as the United Nations and the Iceland Association, have been referred to and expanded to take on the military alliance of NATO and Iceland's cooperation through certain forced actions. What could that be? For example, this could be the embargo for Iraq. It was a work of cooperation not even by the United Nations, but by the states of the proselytism as it was called, the Coalition of the Willing156, as it was called. If we were to legalize it now that the government is permitted to make such a military decision by informing the Council's State Department of State, but without such a decision usually made at the council, I think it's a wonderful return. I think we should stop in this regard, at least I want to understand exactly what's being discussed here, because this is where the government's authority is being extended to participate in the forced labor activities of a group of countries that do not compromise any democratic framework. NATO, however, does. It is a source of denial. We haven't used that kind of denial, so it's always something wrong with me when men are beating on their chests and pretending to be without a nation - we're that natural - but so incompetent in peace, and then they're part of all the campaigns. It is natural that we are not peace lovers when it comes to it. Doesn't Iceland support the ministration raids in the East, Yemen, Pakistan, Iraq, don't we? Are there any comments to that? The bill has a lot of beautiful words about peace, heaven and dignity, etc. You can't go near anyone who's so dirty that he's producing weapons to kill people. But what are we doing with our allies? I'm just asking. Is it wise for us to look in the mirror and look at what we are responsible for today, these times, before we face much pressure? Fourthly, business management must be restricted with so-called raw diamond from war zones, or blooddeant, as well as business with tools that can be used for torture or for the execution of capital punishment. This, of course, is the best. Since then, investments in companies that provide services or produce things that could be used for military purposes can be limited. First of all, I feel that there's a lot of energy in this, and most of all, that's the context we've put in with the NATO countries. I think and I would be much easier to take over to ourselves if we had an army in Iceland. If it wasn't just that we wouldn't have an army but would help send other youths and young people into war, and if we didn't agree directly and indirectly to military violence across the world, I'd be much easier to do. But all this saying is human dignity and human dignity, and so on. I don't like people who share in this military alliance. That's why I want to, top dog. President, to remind you of a matter inequated here, which is about our national law on our presence in NATO. I'm the first member of that bill, but all of the council's left movement - a green bid is involved. And because there is quite a bit of fashion these days - I am a common follower of national pay, it is to solve a difficult issue by shooting them for the nation, and something that matters our interest, and perhaps even human dignity, which is so thoroughly listed in this bill, that we can then define with our vote where we want to go in that respect - I suggest that the council and foreign committee take it away from them and give us the opportunity to discuss it further in a chamber. I think that would do better. V.E.G. President. What I am most inclined to pause, and it would be interesting to get an explanation of the highest. The foreign minister should, for this dilation in the terms of forced titration procedures. What exactly is true of humans? Are there actions that have been identified in the Coalition of the Willing, the coalition of foreign nations? On the contrary, there is a danger. I believe that government decisions, as agreed with the State Department, should be very limited, decision-making authority, authority on decision-making should be very limited. I will accept the United Nations, out of NATO I want to go natural; but there is a democracies of denial. But in the other case, once we're out in informal partnership with a superpower or a military power with no such frame, I feel that the matter must always be determined by the Council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u46	A respectable president. I want to thank you. A candidate for his speech and the questions raised there. It is important to have an opportunity to correct any form of pressure, authority, or authority in the book of Leviticus. g., do not make decisions or wills, such as the rest. A senator mentioned, for example. About Iraq. This is simply a forced case, it is not being given a minister or a government special authority to support in any way beyond what is in the law today or the rules of invasion or something like that. No such thing is being done at all. This is because evolution is being dealt with, which may be said to have occurred. If, for example, part of a state that we work with in the EEA or in the field of NATO wants to take some kind of action, to be forced by it, against violent dictators, it would probably be the most common thing to freeze money or ban sales for something, and then it would be authorized to do so. For example, if there are only three or four countries, such as three or four, ready to take some action, it gives us the authority to agree with a foreign committee. Ministers are not authorized to make decisions like them. A senator mentioned in his speech, as I think it would be. A senator knows well what the foreign minister here feels about this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u47	V.E.G. President. No, I'm not gonna have any doubt that they're anything but good. But I'm watching the lyrics, I'm watching what this says, by permission of a president: The government is permitted to agree with the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee, cr. Act on the General Assembly, to participate in and take the steps necessary to carry out the decisions of the international institutions, and to make the decisions of the world's institutions, to be fine, to - ◯ national groups, to - no, to -/or collaborate on forced action aimed at maintaining peace and security and/or to ensure respect for human rights and human freedom. The invasion in Iraq, according to its members, was for safety. And that's where I feel, whoever wants the current highest. Foreign minister is, be a law letter too open. I believe that if such decisions are involved or had to be discussed, they would have to go before the council, they would have to go before the council. It wasn't done at the time, unfortunately, I think many people regret what happened, and we ended there on the list of willing ones. At least I believe that this needs careful attention during the council treatment. There I believe that we should rather go to tribulation, and with appeal that the matter may take place in a democratic manner, with the decision of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u48	A respectable president. I want to reiterate what I said before that I do not believe that there is a warrant for decisions about this, for example, when the Icelanders arrived on this blessed list of support countries of the Iraq invasion, it is not authorized that governments can make such decisions. I find it quite difficult, even if it's the right thing to do. A senator, that the evidence that this was done was based on security issues, that there was biological weapons, and possible nuclear weapons, or what it was all about. This is the use of forced measures, taking such measures. I think it's a long way to compare it to what happened in Iraq, but I agree with it. A senator that if there is a danger of misunderstandings, it is necessary that a foreign committee handle it well and perhaps make changes in the bill that explains it even more. The idea of this is primarily that we can make the decisions that we feel are needed to participate in the forced titration procedures in case of international, part, or any of them. Of course, it is always up to us to consider when to participate, as it is today. Today we are involved in forced operations against Russia because of its invasion in Ukraine. That's under the authority of the EEA Convention. We're under no obligation to do this. We're under no obligation to do this. However, we feel that it is important to participate because it shows that we disagree completely with the fact that there is a conflict between the International Convention and the International Laws.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u49	V.E.G. President. It was as if it were the highest. A minister of foreign affairs would be to try to keep up with the discussion here because the precise decisions of this kind belong to the council. They would have had to talk at the council. I don't like them, for example, because I don't agree with them. Let it be, we're dealing with this particular bill, and I have to say, whatever man's will is and the will of the present. The Minister of Foreign Ministers and our individual senators, I allow myself to say as an unlettered legalist, while a practitioner, and a reasonable reader, of the legal formula as it appears in the bill and explanations that are open to me, in my opinion, on the authority that is too widely available. But I'm glad it's the highest. A minister declares that while he is not giving a commitment to his decision, it is good for us to agree that we will agree that it will be done thoroughly.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u50	V.E.G. President. I was unable to go through all the bill within the time given, and I get it back up into the second talk to finish the rest of, about III. Chapters, of international forced action, follow the discussion that has taken place here. I'll put it just like what I'm going to do. Jónasson That's a very large question mark by 3. Yeah, yeah, III. section; for it is decoupling foreign ministers from its sources in order to perform forced operations. Today, a minister is permitted to take such measures as are determined by the United Nations, international, or national groups. However, this bill allows a minister to agree with a foreign legal committee without such measures being determined by the international organisation. So here it is being made clear that the Secretary of State can bring about almost one thing, that is, in fact, in collaboration with the Allied Foreign Affairs Committee, decided that Iceland should participate in forced labor operations against individual states without any international agreement. I'll put a question mark on this and in particular that it's enough to have a cooperative society that we're going to participate in the paving process. Like a snooze. paritaprevir In his speech, the 100 - year - old son of Jónasson said that my first creative alliances were the Iraq War and the list of willing nations. It's fine to hear it from the highest level. Secretary of State that there is not some such arrangement, but I believe that the law is too open. It says, by permission of the highest power. President: ▪... forced action aimed at maintaining peace and security and/or ensuring respect for human rights and human freedom. This is very open to interpretations, what we may be able to call appropriate forcedness, and what expressions we use about appropriate force at a time. Therefore, I would like to agree that this needs to be examined at the moment. State Department. And then I'd like to agree that the decision to take some form of pressure action should, of course, come before the council. Because I've been in my case quite a bit critical of the bill, I'd like to say, though, that I'm really happy with the B-J 4. where it is said that a minister is permitted to forbid business with raw diamond from war zones and tools that can be used for torture. I really hope that a minister will use this law on every opportunity he possibly can, so to speak, something positive. At the top. A minister had quite a discussion in reply about IV. Chapter, monitoring services and things that may have military significance, and I don't need to come back to that. But what I want to say about the bill as a whole, as it has been shown in my case, raises a number of questions from the perspective of the peacemaker. So I think it's very important that the Foreign Affairs Department oversees the wording in the bill so that nothing here is open to free interpreters. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u51	A respectable president. This Parliamentary resolution requires a review of Allied sources to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of this decision. 269/2014, change in II. Annex to the EEA Convention on technical regulations, standards, testing and certification and entry of the Convention of the European Parliament and Council No. 98/2013, on the market and on the use of supernovas. The procedure establishes a consistent bioavailability, marketing, management and use of certain materials or chemicals which can be used to produce illegal explosives in order to limit public access to them. An announcement of the suspicious business with such specific materials is also required. This is true, for example, when a prospective customer is blurred in terms of the intended use of the material, does not seem to know who it is, or cannot explain it as credible, plans to buy in unusual quantities, strengths, or combinations, do not want to give up what he is or where he lives or wants to pay in an unusual way. Implementation of the Regulation calls for a change in arms law, No. 16/1998. Internal Ministers are expected to provide a bill for changes in the above laws, but progress will not be reached at the current legislature. The implementation of the local species is not expected to be largely affected, but in general the public does not need the available resources. Nevertheless, it would be necessary to record the products specific in the form. It is therefore assumed that the cost will be at any rate by installing the relevant registration system. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a legal adjustment in this country, it was taken under administrative notice. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval of the change in EEA contracts in the decision-making process so that the government may be removed in advance. I suggest that, after this discussion, this proposal be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u52	Mr. President. As a result of this resolution, the Alleglerary's warrants are made to confirm the contract between Iceland and the Faeroe Islands for Fishing in Icelandic and New York City in 2015, which was replaced by paper exchanges in Thorsve, and in Reykjavík, January 6 and 20, 2015. These agreements stipulate the authority of parties to fish seafood in each other's legal history during 2015. It remains unchanged from previous years to the second, but there is no record of the privileges of high-end ships in the Icelandic jurisdiction of the contract since 2014. This contract contains sources of hairy fish From Icelandic legislation for the season 2014/2015, as well as the season of 2015/2016. The Convention allows for a mutual warrant for each party's fishing on carbons and Norwegian-islen herring within the jurisdiction of the previous 2015. Icelandic ships are authorized to hunt on as many as 1,300 trains of macroil and 2,000 trains of sild except Norwegian-islensk within the sophisticated jurisdiction of 2015. The contract went into force on January 20, 2015, and will meet its final value when it has been announced that the administrative conditions of each country have been met. Before this deal was made, the national Convention since 1976 determined that high - quality ships were allowed to catch 5,600 trains of bottom fish by Iceland during 2015. However, the overall power of cod will be no more than 1,375 trains, the total segments of a cone no more than 750 trains, and no fishing will be allowed on the hatches or in grays. I propose, Mr. President, after this discussion, this proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u53	Mr. President. This decree of the Council is made with a synopsis for confirmation of a contract between Greenland and Iceland on the management of shrimp fishing at Dohrn Bank signed in Reykjavík, March 29, 2014. On March 29, 2014, a annual contract between Iceland and Greenland was signed in Reykjavík in a fishing business. This is another agreement made by such figures that Iceland's cooperation with its next neighbor in the West is continuing to grow. On that occasion the national agreement on the management of shrimping at Dohrn Bank was signed, a common strain in the region of the north and west of the West. The percentages of this strain between the nations were not reached, but the latest scientific advice published by the Northwestern Atlantic Fishing Agency (NAFO) accounts for a total of 2,000 tons in 2014. In the meantime, it has been decided that the nations will be allowed mutual access to legal history for each other in a limited number of fish. To begin with, the contract assumes that Greenland can provide 375 tons of shrimp on the Iceland border along with Iceland's national jurisdictional border, as well as 375 tons of Greenland. The hunter of the Greenlandite is going to submit to the Koreans'rules, while commercial law is in accordance with local regulations. The contract is non-timely and is first valid 30 days after both parties have confirmed it. I propose, Mr. President, after this discussion, the proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-03-26-86.u54	A respectable president. By the Parliamentary resolution of this decision, the Council is requested to establish for Iceland a decision made by the European Commission on the basis of a direct decision. 29/2015, change of XVII. The Annex of the EEA Convention on Ideas and Member States of the European Parliament Directive and of the Council 2012/28/EU from 25 October 2012 for the specific authorised use of orphans. As the term implies, certain acceptable use of so - called orphans is required, but these are works that are legal but their author or rights are not known or are not known where they think they are and therefore cannot be found to use them. In particular, the Directive allows certain cultural institutions to use a work without a right authority if it is determined after a thorough search for an orphan. Thus Europe's cultural institutions are enabled to produce digital copies of orphans in their museums, but spelling calls for legal approval. This aims, among other things, to ensure that European cultural gaps are not in digital form. Implementation of the Directive calls for changes in Authors, No. 73/1972, with the proposed changes, and aims to bring the Minister of Education and Culture to offer a bill for the change in authories during the current council. The induction of the species is not expected to have substantial expenses or management. As the decision made by the joint EEA calls for a national legal adjustment, it is taken under controlled alert. Therefore, it is requested by the General's approval for this change in the EEA Convention in which the decision is made that the government may be removed in advance. I propose, most respectable president, after a discussion, this proposal will be referred to. Foreign Affairs.
