ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u1	Borist has received a letter from the chairman of the Group members for the year. 4th, including We're out of Suðvest. " The Árni Páll Árnason cannot attend a meeting in the near future. So today, at Arms II of the United States Association list, Margrét Gauja Magnúsdóttir, 1st Specialist on a list in the district has announced ahead of us. Margrét Gauja Magnúsdóttir, who has taken up residence in the past, is welcome back to work.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u2	There have been two letters from the Ministry of Health requesting deadlines to give written answers to inquiries. 316 and 317, cost of specialised, counseling and covering work, from the daughter of Katrín Jakobsdóttir. There have also been two letters received from the Department of Economic and Economic Affairs asking for every request to give written answers to the application for this request. Thirty-three, for the cost of a special currency from Björgvin G. Sigurðsson's son, and for the icicle. 323, on the debt of individuals, partners, and businesses at financial institutions in the majority of the state, from Jón Gunnarsson's son.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u3	A respectable president. It was an unremarkable phone call to take in the middle of the night in a distant continent and to be told that Paris was under attack by terrorists. At that time, it was said that 18 people had been killed, but it soon became clear that that that number was rising rapidly. 129 people were killed, nearly 360 injured, of which at least 80 were seriously injured. A lot of people are still in intensive care. None of the Icelanders were among the victims, but over the past few days we have heard the experiences of many of our countrymen as a picket stop at the coffee shops that became the scene of shooting or on the game of France and Germany at the Stade de France or at the regular location of Bachalan. In other words, on Friday, November 13, an Icelander did not face the terrorists. For this, of course, we are grateful, but we feel compassion for the many pain - stricken ones. I would like to use this opportunity here and to justify the sympathy of the government and solidarity of the French nation during these difficult times. It is not only in Europe that the organization that claims to be part of Islam's realm is acting. Recently, some 40 people died in a suicide explosion in Beirut, the capital of Lebanon. The organization has also declared responsibility for an explosion that destroyed a passenger jet with Russian tourists on the surface, and it has not long since ISIS changed a beach in a popular tourist attraction in Tunisia into a bloody battlefield. We also recall the victims of these attacks, as well as the many who fall at the hands of this repugnant terrorist organization in Iraq and Syria, a group that is identified with Islamic kingdoms, but who have nothing to do with that ancient religion, its value, and its peaceful message. A respectable president. The terrorist activities in Paris were not just an attack on those living there. It also provided resources for our social and quality of life. The goal of terrorism was to plant seeds of fear and to promote the social values for which we believe and want to stand; liberty, democracy, tolerance, and equal rights of individuals regardless of religion, sex, sex, or taste in music. The terrorists are hoping to influence and change these baseline areas of our society. Hence, it is more important than ever to keep them up, not creep into the shell, but to welcome freedom, the freedom that so many refugees we would like to support are looking for. Yet, events that have much to do with less and more time on our communities do. The French have declared that they are at war, asking for support and assistance from other European countries. 42-7 of the EU Convention and declared that there will be an increase in the number of people involved in security and protection. This morning the secretary of defense of the European Union felt the activation of this article, which is an isolated example in the history of the Union and had become at the request of the French. Then, in 2012, our friends and uncles in Norway have worked hard to deal with the events in Outey, but the Norwegian attitude toward security and law enforcement changed normally. We also need to be able to discuss these matters carefully and ask ourselves, " Is there enough to do in the national security? Is there enough resources, resources, and authority to face a growing threat to terrorism? ' However, this discussion must always be taken to ensure that the balance between the freedom in our society and the security we want to enjoy is balanced. We need to be able to have that conversation, and we need to discuss the safety and protection issues of a strong and objective basis. As a matter of fact, later today, I will recommend a resolution for national security policy that I hope to be made with a wide deal here in the Generals' sales. How do we face the threat of terrorism as a global society? How do we fight forces that do not respect moral boundaries and human life? We have to deal with the consequences and address the root of the problem, and here Iceland has a role and responsibility. First, and here, Iceland has its voice, we need to put increased pressure on key international actors, including the United Nations Security Council, to find a peaceful solution to the issue in Syria, where ISIS's main strongholds are and where millions are fleeing. Second, we need to continue to tighten the work of the international alliance against ISIS. Iceland is a member of 60 countries, and it suggests action in the form of humanitarian assistance and stability measures. These are, the use of proben, the actions proposed on the basis of UN resolution. Third, Iceland will direct a portion of its refugee support to the world's crime - scene institutions, including refugee camps, and improve their living conditions near their homes. We will likewise welcome refugees from war - torn areas and give them the hope of a better life here at home. Fourth, I call development cooperation. Support to Palestine and Afghanistan and other war - torn countries where young people may be easily activated to commit atrocities is an important part of Iceland's development teamwork as well as emergency assistance in the war - torn waters of the Mediterranean Sea. Finally, we need to meet the needs of young people, each experiencing a number of extracurricular experiences in Western society and leaning toward fanaticism in their inadequacy and lack of faith in the prospect of life. We as an international community must deal with all these factors. It takes complete solutions to cope with such difficult solutions as this. A respectable president. Finally. Sadly, terrorism is part of our reality today. It is not a reality to make peace but to cope with it. As a member of the United States and here at the General Assembly, we must be able to discuss the threat of terrorism with responsibilities and reason and in the worldwide work of putting our weight on the scales. They may not weigh the weight they weigh, but they think they are.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u4	A respectable president. When it comes to the values of our society, we need to stick together for the good society that has been established in those values. Our minds are at the hands of the victims of the crime in Paris on Friday and their victims. They have caused amazement and terror, but they have also brought anger into the hearts of people around the world. Our minds are not only among the victims and their victims but also among the Parisians and the French of all, our friendly nation and long - term alliances, since the attack is taking place on the whole of their society. The attack is done on high and low, people of different colors, people of different religions, sex practices, and other factors. It was an attack on an open and democratic society. As soon as we are to allow ourselves to have strong feelings in this way, when people with incomprehensible cruelty are attacked, we must also remember that anger, however, is not a good basis for making decisions. Decisions on our safety and community structure need to be balanced. What do we need now to do? We need to think: What is it the criminals wanted? When they want to create fear, let us remember that we live in some of the safest society in the world. They wanted to create divisions. Then let's cultivate solidarity. They wanted to create prejudice and hatred. Let us, then, cultivate variety and tolerance. They want to create a state of police. Let us strengthen the open society. They want to weigh the democracy. Let us strengthen it. They want to promote war. Let us stress the importance of peaceful solutions. At the same time, let us not grapple with the fact that at all times we need to take our own safety seriously. We need to guard and protect it so that we will continue to enjoy it. We must do so on the basis of facts in a cold judgment of the danger and take care not to sacrifice our rights or democratic success in that act. We also need to remember that when we were among the willing nations, we were drawn into this conflict. We need to evaluate security and other aspects of it, but especially our moral responsibility for the solutions that are evident in this part of the world. We have recently achieved a solid solidarity, the entire Icelandic nation, all political groups here, to welcome in a handsome way those who are fleeing from those criminals ISIS. There is no question that ISIS would like to plant seeds of doubt and suspicion toward people who now flee from their state to Europe. That is why, if there is anything to stress, to welcome these people even more than we were once determined to do so with even greater power of creation than we were determined to, and to sound down all voices of suspicion toward them, as soon as the normal safety issues are probably being maintained. This is our joint assignment ahead of us. I welcome the steps you've taken. In his speech, the minister of the State declared that the proper approach we have seen in the highest response would also be taken. Minister of state to the events that have taken place.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u5	Mr. President. In the last few weeks and months, the terrorist organization identified themselves as a Islamic state, or Daesh, has declared responsibility for several major acts of terrorism and is then countless of their atrocities in Syria and Iraq. These are bombings in Ankara, Turkey, Russia's jet planes that were bombed, Beiruth and Lebanon, raids in Tunisia, and the last massacre in Paris, France. While the last of the murders may attract the most attention and dismay of this country because of our presence and our association with France, our sympathy must be with all the people who are sorry to bind because of all these evils. Although the number of casualties in these attacks is appallingly high, it is almost a drop in the ocean if you see the casualties in wars that have raged in the vicinity of Europe for years and have led in a direct or indirect way to these events. The invasion of Iraq in 2003 is one of the biggest mistakes that have been made in Western foreign policy. In Iraq there is an estimated millions of deaths due to the war. The resulting resolution of this infamous terrorist organization promoted the modern - day civil war in Syria. the lives of a man and the tide of millions of refugees. This cannot be shared. The reason that the war in Syria has been able to continue for so long is the constant and ongoing intervention of a number of non - Israelite nations whose primary concern is to achieve their own goals. There is no exception either to Russia, the Irans, the Turks, the French, the Americans, or the sheikh states of the Persian Gulf. Even during the first few hours after the terrorist attacks in Paris, the reaction of French officials was found to fuel the fires of war by dropping bombs on the city of Raqqqa, just as continued bloodshed in Syria could somehow heal the wounded of Paris. However, it can be realized that only by political means will all the superpowers in the region without delay stop fighting and funding warring armies. V.E.G. President. The last of all, the terrorist attacks in Paris cause the war - torn refugees to be attacked in Europe or to use the European government as an excuse to shrink back from their collective responsibility to help people in need. Similarly, communities in Western Europe must be aware of the dangers associated with when individual social groups are shrunk and have less potential than others, e.g. to education and employment because of the prejudice and poor social status. We must not listen to the voices of those who use terrorism and fear to justify the separation and separation of groups that live together in society. By saying such things, we would, in effect, agree with any names of fanatics. Mr. President. The real root causes of most people if not all the conflicts and civil wars in the world are economic and explained by abduction or failure of the wealth that is beyond the end. Against this, the Western world is not to be fought with ever - increasing civilization or involvement in existing conflicts. The victory in the fight against terrorism is not won by bombs from the skies. He is also not won't fight with the police, with the widespread intelligence of civilians, or with military border control. He is won only by strengthening educational, health, and welfare systems and by ensuring all social groups into democratic society. In this way, we will best honor the memory of the people who died during the attacks in Paris and all the other terrorist attacks we have witnessed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u6	V.E.G. President. We are heartbroken at these tragic acts, and we naturally ask many questions about the causes and consequences and how we should react. We do not know or understand what is taking place in the minds of such individuals, whether those who plot or those who commit atrocities. The same thing is done, to threaten, to murder, to panic, and to cause confusion, to provoke hatred, to bring vengeance, and to cause the things to rot in our minds. It is rooted in extremeism, and the purpose is to attack and undermine the values of freedom and democracy and divide European nations. We must ask: What can we do? What are we gonna do? An impenetrable part of the freedom that we so promote is certain that we are sure that our freedom is guaranteed. The situation needs to be well evaluated and balanced and realistic. I stress that when we talk about the security of the State, we're talking about our own security, the security that is the key to the free society we want to hold in high esteem. First of all, we need information, accurate information, and information. Police authorities in Europe and the international police exchange information on a potential threat to national security. We're part of that partnership. We receive information and tips from the local authorities, so we can find out if there are any areas in this area or if there are people who are associated with international crime organizations or fanatic organizations that are being transferred to this country. We use that knowledge to evaluate the security of our country. This is the system we use and we measure the status from it. We, the government and the government, police and security, have considered whether and how to handle these situations. It's U.S. Marshal's assessment that there is no need to raise the cost beyond what was done in February after the attacks on Charlie Hedo. There is, however, no doubt that there is considerable threat of terrorism in Western lands, and we need to be on guard. The Schengen community service has been discussed with this event. I've said that, and I still believe that the Schengen team was working well, and it was important for us to participate in it. The Schengen community service is based on confidence and ideas about European freedoms to travel unregulated throughout the region. I call attention to the fact that at any time, we can increase the surveillance of the border in accordance with our circumstances. It will be examined at any given time and considered at any given time. Security and border protection need to be ongoing reviews. We are part of the world, and we rely on this close cooperation both with Schengen and with international law enforcement. There has been an additional meeting of Schengen State on Friday, which will discuss the steps to take following the events in Paris on Friday and how to react. V.E.G. President. At the same time that these events occur, Europe copes with a great flood of refugees who flee from terrible events at home. It is ordinary people, usually families, who take refuge from the threat. This situation is likely to be a lasting predictable future. It is very important to arrange the preparation accordingly. The result, then, is this: We are very close to watching. We take seriously the dangers facing the West. We get information, we cooperate with neighboring countries, and we do what we can to keep our citizens safe. We need to ensure enough human resources for law enforcement and border control. V.E.G. President. Above all, let us take decisive action and stick together to ensure freedom and the democratic values we would like to achieve. There is no evidence now that at home there is a greater threat or danger.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u7	A respectable president. I want to thank the President in particular for this discussion. She matters. We all have a burden on our hearts and are now reluctant to speak, not just for members of the council, but for the whole nation. It's strong feelings that come with us after the news on Friday night and the thoughts this weekend. It is short in anger, short in fear, and perhaps above all the sadness in a person. Sadly, the attacks in Paris are not the first of these. They're not even the first ones of the last few weeks, but they all happen in Paris that we all know somehow, Paris, which is near to us, Paris, a city we've visited or know at least very well through movies, books, cultures, and the attacks are made on young people whom we share with, people who are observing sports, are going to concerts, going out to restaurants, eating - all of these are things that we know so well and count for granted and the most important part of our free lives. The attacks in Paris are an attack on our baseline, the human baseline, the liberality towards all the people we view as the foundation of our society. Of course, Paris and France represent this liberal society, representing freedom, equality, and brotherhood. Therefore, it may not be surprising that the emotions when Paris is attacked are particularly strong for us. However, we are fully aware that the attacks in Paris are just part of a much larger picture. On Friday, I was very sad about the terrorist attack in Beirut on Thursday, where more than 40 people died in one of the most tragic terrorist attacks since the end of the 1990 war. I think that although you can see that the response to the attack in Beirut, the response to the attack in Turkey during the dawns, the attack in Baghdad two weeks ago, the situation in Syria, is not as strong as it is now, and our feelings may be stronger when the attacks are near us, that doesn't mean we don't care about other places. In the foundation of our heart, we are equally angry over all of this, even though it may take us a little longer to get them angry out of the heart and into the brain and tongue. I think that the reason for the attack in Beirut especially affected me is the fact that I visited Beirut just a short time ago, and I experienced that people living there, just as we do who also want to be free society and stress human rights. It is important that we not forget that we Europeans, Westerners, have no exclusive rights for these emotions. We don't have the exclusive rights of human rights. Countries around the world are participants in the United Nations Convention of Human Rights, the refugee treaties, and so on. We must not let terrorists triumph by being pressured into isolation of Europe and our safety. This is in common with the whole world. We need to fight fear with fearless fear. We need to start human beings with even greater respect. We need to respond to hatred speech in our community and everywhere with love talk, respond to hatred with love and kindness, and we need to strengthen our liberal human society and help solve the problem in other countries, not just in Europe.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u8	President. I'd like to start thanking you for this discussion. I sense that we're all in the same place, and it's important. I, like everyone else who has observed events in our world, have often felt sad and sad about the cruelty a human being can experience, that is incomprehensible cruelty. It's always that way when you know about someone who's there, where the horror is that you get more scared and you watch more. This does not mean, however, that a person's heart is not with all those who have to live with such cruelty, such fear, and such calamities as this are the most visible in Syria. The reality faced in Paris is the daily bread in Syria. The refugees are the majority of the children that come to us for help, so don't forget. Let us not forget it when we are going to be afraid that we are welcoming children. Let us not forget that not all young men come from Syria. I feel sorry for all those who hurt to bind because of the terrorism in Paris and the terrorism in Beirut and because of the conditions in Eritrea, in Afghanistan, Iraq, Gaza, Lhasa - our world is filled with cruelty. How does one respond to cruelty? How do you respond to fear? We all know that. We've all talked about it today. I often find poetry more than speeches. I wrote a poem in 2004 called Heroes. Mark the roots, Give unto the land of the fathers. the earth in which their history is marked. It Takes Courage to Leave all the things you know. It Takes Courage To board the boats, So ancient that most of them sink of unknown degree. It Takes Courage to sit on a new earth. Everything that was no more - just a distant memory. The Real Heroes of the World leave behind His treasure, education, a family. culture. The Real Hero of Our World Choose to Flee instead of pressing automatic rifles To his sons' hands. II Great waves wash over them, the salt of the sea, wounds, the grief, Fear. They won't give up. Keeping motion steady, Trying to Get New Roots In strange dirt. But the Western countries see the world only through the retina his reality. The Real Heroes of the World Wash up disks, Clean the toilet. Do the fish. The college degrees are dusty, penalties. The Real Hero of Our World wait in a refugee camp By Bigness. In Our Simpleness Fear No More but that they steal Our wealth. And we in the West have long since forgotten Where did our wealth come from? The Real Heroes are those who are ready to sacrifice all things For tolerability. The Voice of Hope among the fearful. We're not scared. The Real Heroes of the World are persons who dare to criticize the Shining Land Mines Who slumbereth in our hearts, Breaketh forth like the pride of a people's heart. Fear, haemophilia, Greed. The true heroes of the world choose peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u9	A respectable president. Fear must never become our companion when it comes to acts of terrorism. Never must society be motivated by terrorism to change their baselines, their democracys, their freedoms, their human rights. If we give in, terrorists have won. The value of Western nations must never be replaced by the threat of terrorism. We have built up a society that we love. That thought must never change. Terrorism has nothing to do with religion. It is based on hatred, ignorance, intolerance, and lack of respect for other values. They are social services and our community. It is the reaction of men who are motivated by hatred. But watch out for the discussion. That terrorists do bad things in Western lands does not mean that all refugees are landless and wasteful. This does not mean that there is a terrorist living within many of them and that there will be a special checkup for each of them. This does not mean that Western nations should fail their duties related to human rights and human kindness. We are under obligation to receive refugees and care for them as best we can because of our international commitments, as well as because we are human to care for our painful fellow humans. Still, we must respond to the threat of terrorism. It would be naive not to do so. Our obligation is to ensure the safety of our citizens by any means necessary. Our compassion is for the French nation, our duty is toward the living. The atrocities in France should teach us one thing. We are no longer an island that enjoys international immunity as such. We must take care of these matters with responsibility and determination. Never let fear dominate you, nor let refugees pay for terrorism. Then terrorists have achieved their goal to weaken Western communities and their values.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u10	Mr. President. I would like to express a special pleasure in the tone of this discussion. It is a challenge for governments in each country to face such damaging situations as molding a responsible, careful course. The government must also form a solidarity. Therefore, I would like to express my joy with the careful approach described by both talks. The secretary of state and state in this discussion. It is easy to support the course they have at least The path to the program "smooth" All Icelanders have been filled with grief and grief over the terrible things done in Paris. However, we must be careful how our response, both government and public, will be. The important thing is that they do not contribute to the success of any of the goals they have set for themselves by the armed forces that took place in the name of evil. It is likely that their purpose is complex: First, to promote the driving of governments who are dealing with them and who use weapons against them in Syria and Iraq. Second, to create fear among the citizens of these countries, they put pressure on governments to cut themselves off from these conflicts. Third, it is clear that the goal is also to create chaos and chaos and to try to confront groups of society, preferably leading to bloody conflicts that could upset these communities. Of course, fourth is to take root in the open, free society that identifies our community. Therefore, our response should not cause the State of justice to become tighter than the police, not bring us closer to the state of the police, not allowing hatred to develop against refugees who are fleeing from this same threat, and in no way lead to some kind of evil or hatred also to spring up against Muslims. [[The president calls.]] Let us not forget that they are probably the most feared social group in Europe after all that has happened.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u11	President. We're gonna talk about a terrible thing here. Here we are wondering what's going on. I especially welcome the tone in our discussion that none of us have a simple explanation of what happened or how to react. The war state in the Middle East is no longer attached to that area. It has been there for a long time, but now it is beginning to touch us in a far more tangible way. The number of refugees who flee from an unbearable situation in the area is increasing. Suddenly, we need to respond to the struggle ourselves. Terrorism attacks have been and are part of such conditions and should be considered in that light. The question here is even more complex because of who the person is, an organization who likes to identify himself with Islamic states but who is without a citizen. Our mission is to ensure and bear responsibility for the way we deal with one another, for us to show responsibility, understanding, and consideration, that we create a community where all are welcome and have purpose, roles and tasks and also for being voices out of the rockstones, a voice that proclaims peace, responsibilities in the environment, women's freedom, and the equation. With their viewpoints guided, we will find the right tone in the way we react to these calamities, as did everyone else. Here we are dealing with a criminal organization, but also an event that must be considered in political context, the invasion of Iraq 2003, is part of the sequence, and we must see it at the same time. The objective of this action is to cause agitation, therefore the only proper response is to respond with careful management. The goal is to produce hatred. Then the only response is out of love. We must be publishers of balanced and peaceful solutions, but the subject ahead is the disorder of the world, the struggle with poverty. It becomes more and more urgent, and this discussion is part of it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u12	V.E.G. President. Like other speakers here today, I express great grief over the events that took place in Paris last week and, indeed, because of the terrorism of others that have occurred in recent days and weeks. There, the highest bomb attack in Beirut and the terrorist activity against the Russian jet of Sinai. These events, and perhaps especially the events in Paris, bring us closer to the war conditions that have occurred in recent years before the Mediterranean and other lands, but especially in Syria and Iraq. What many feared now is that these events in that area had a far greater impact and far closer to us than it seemed at the outset. The reactions of the government in this country, as mentioned in the discussion, have been cautious but well developed, and that is how we need to deal with such situations. We need to do so out of thought and make decisions on well - founded grounds. We cannot overlook the fact that terrorism can reach Iceland, and of course we need to ensure that the institutions of this country, which have a role in preventing attacks and measures of that kind, have the resources to handle the situation properly. Of course, we must be careful, as noted by other public speakers today, that in our response we can always take a moderate measure and take care not to accept the basic rights on which our community is built. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u13	A respectable president. Since I was in Thorsmark this weekend in my life as a traveling director in a small company called the Children's Travel Association, Friday through Sunday, I did not find out about these events until I got home on Sunday. In Thor's house, children played in snow and bush, and I thought of the little foot spoken of in the song of the Nobel poet, who does not know how hard the world is, and of the world's schemes that framed evil men, when these events came to my attention and those who were on this journey. I remembered when I was in New York, 2001, shortly after the terrorism, as a reporter in the scene of the terrible events. They reminded me of the inadequacy that you have to experience in this way. But as cruel as unprovoked as that act was, you have to admit to yourself that it wasn't incoherent, it was part of a series of events that can be traced back to the civil war in Afghanistan in the past and even further back into the era. Thus, the Iraq War, which led in part by the terrorist attack, has produced most of the military commanders now running ISIS responsible for disaster in Paris. It reminds us that the decisions we make today can live with us for a long time. Many people speak extensively in the context of not changing their values and maintaining them. But I think people must talk about the value of the Western world when it comes to sharing in other continents, when it comes to interests away from our own countries, because it is part of the sequence of events that we see today. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u14	A respectable president. What a relief it is to hear how many people are here and to think that we will not sacrifice important freedom to buy some security! I agree with what. paritaprevir Róbert Marshall, that's exactly what he said. V.E.G. The minister of the State previously spoke of terrorism as just a part of the reality we live in today's world. That's terrible. I feel that we need to ask ourselves why we have to live with that reality and what our lot is and our responsibility in it. How long can we allow ourselves to believe in the ideologies that we can only eliminate this threat by force, by war? With each bomb, each bullet, we're creating a new enemy. Where does it end? When will this end? It reminds me of the old man who talked to his grandchildren about the white wolf that lives inside all of us and is fighting all the time. The black wolf represents fear, anger, jealousy, and greed, but the white man represents peace, love, hope, courage, and compassion. His grandchildren ask, "Yes, but Grandpa, who works?" And he said, The wolf whom thou didst feed.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u15	A respectable president. The European Union on border control, so-called Schgeren teamwork, is upset. It's not just upset, it's practically ruined. Extensive monitoring is carried out, but then there is little or no internal check after people enter the Schengen area. The situation is that every day thousands of people stream freely into the Schengen area without visas and often with fake IDs. Many of these are fleeing from war, but only for humanitarian reasons should we welcome them. Others take advantage of economic goals, want better lives in Western countries, higher pay, better reforms, etc. Numbers from Eurostat, the European Union's Office for Refugees indicate that only 21% of those involved in the Union are from Syria. The other 79% came from other countries. A few days ago, a friend of mine who lives in a country outside the Schengen area asked what evidence would there be that he needed a visa if he wanted to come as a tourist to Iceland for a month, while thousands of others who were not fleeing war or for political reasons could enter Schengen. There wasn't much to answer. The situation in Schengen has become the fact that individual countries within it are developing their own rules, building barriers on the border, tightening passports, imprisonments, etc. The latest example is Sweden, who was on the road two years ago when the threat of refugees came. I think it's great to be able to travel around the Schengen area without special passport control. However, monitoring of the outer limit of the area is simply broken. In the coming or in the next few years, nothing will reduce the tide of refugees. Everybody knows that. Why don't we take up a serious talk about Schengen instead of pushing the problem ahead of us until we're in trouble?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u16	Mr. President. I want to talk about trust. All of us realize that at the time of the collapse, trust, i.e., also broke down. Consolation of trust in politicians, institutions, and other social infrastructures. Thus, it is especially the role of the Generals to work toward increasing trust. Our most powerful tool for this work is that there are rules of play that are transparent and equal to equality. In this context, I want to mention monitoring of the environmental impact of the big industry. I'm not going to take any particular position on the big business or discuss it in particular. On the other hand, I'm going to decide if we're cool or if I'm satisfied with the rules of monitoring the environmental impact of a major industry. We all need to ask ourselves: " Are we cool to make sure that the big business companies themselves watch and measure the impact of the work on the immediate environment? Time, increased knowledge, and courage have helped us to progress in increased nature protection. Young people are conscious, making increasing demands that nature be increasingly blessed with the benefit of the doubt. I hope that we are in that place and have the ambition to build confidence that we are ready to revise who and how we are able to monitor the environmental effects of the big industry and the activities of any kind.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u17	A respectable president. During this week, Porta's party is reserved for women. We understand that this is the first time in 20 years of this pleasant situation at the Council. As for the 100th anniversary of the woman's vote, Pirata and I have had much thought on this occasion. This milestone is not merely a special birthday celebration of women but, more importantly, the birthdays of a great democracies in the history of the nation. I'm only sorry that democracy itself has not given more attention to this remarkable democracy birthday. Surely we can rejoice in the smoothness of the public's voice in the popular debate of politics. The common citizen has far more access to information than before, and people's voices have a better way of dealing with community media. At the same time, however, there is a decline in campaign activities, especially among young people. How should we react? Do we need to promote the education and knowledge of democracy? Do we need to promote the sense of democracy? It's not just an election event that's been lost. Trust in the Council has fallen from labor. Many people speak of the four groups with a bad taste in their mouths. Politicians must be free of fear of considering possible causes for the collapse of election participation. Is it possible that the groups themselves are the ones who represent the democracy for cleaning it up? Do we need to examine our democratic system from the foundation of the information and technology revolution? Or can politics and political parties somehow regain their trust and self - respect? I'll think of what Krishnamurti said: To be well adapted to a diseased society is not a measure of health. When the system is sick and no longer serving us, it is our responsibility to reevaluate and rebuild it. Political groups and activities in them are a means to an end, not a goal. Either we need to regain trust in politics and political parties or they will be cast upon the heaps for others and better democracy. The root of society will see to it.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u18	V.E.G. President. I come up here to call attention to the United Nations Refugee Fundamental Help that challenges the world's state to fulfill its commitment to the hosting of refugees. At a press conference this morning, the agency's spokesman stated that refugees could not be made scapegoats because of terrorism or even new victims. It is true that we remind ourselves that the people who are now running in wars in part to Europe are fleeing from just the terrors that visited Paris in these last days, and we are under obligation to take part in accepting the people who are fleeing from such calamities. In the fall of this year, there was a large debate over the affairs of refugees, and then the government's corruption of the greeting of refugees came. There has been virtually no room for wealth, and over 55 refugees are still at odds between the state and the countryside. The events in Paris are designed to harden us. We're supposed to increase the number of refugees we're going to receive, and we're supposed to reexamine the cost schedule. It was ordered to go to about 2 billion. This year, an estimated 775 million are in the company of refugees, international agencies, and shelterers. Most of that money is not new to the jury, it's money that's being made up for underdeveloped costs at the time of the arrival of the trustees into the country. V.E.G. President. As a civilized nation in the international community, we are required to do better. We must welcome more people, and we must give the money we need.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u19	Mr. President. Afterward, women who are disabled on the behalf of Talu and the female movement of the United States are going to hand a secretary of state, welfare minister, and General document to protest a high rate of violence against disabled women and offenders in the legal system. At the same time, they intend to return the shame they feel they have suffered all their life and do not have. They point their words to the General and Ministry and plan to be here outside the house at 4:00 p.m. This is part of the ◯Beauty Tips in the revolution and the Kevin the Nippe that has been much lately in the discussion and is one of the reasons that we women are in order to resist violence together. The fact that women and girls are only supposed to be careful is in Icelandic culture. I call attention to the fact that there's a shashtag on this subject if people want to monitor it, I'm not me. Yesterday, the finals were in Sniffers, the talent contests of the University of Reykjavík, an equalist call that was entitled '-Ely girls'. I'd like to read the conclusion. The girls put it very well, and I encourage you to look at the scene in all today's media. At the end it sounds like: Dear Father's Empire, You know, when you tell me to calm down and just shut up Keep encouraging me to scream with all force. You can't stop what you know is coming, You don't understand your labor. You're not a woman. [...] We've been fighting for so long for countless, of course the fight in itself has become a self - righteous thing. But we're asking you, girls to keep going all the time, Don't forget your signs who stood up out of a tunnel, to never forget the women Who cried in darkness, to remember the least of all the girls who were dead and bitches and for. I urge you once again to receive the disabled women here, outside today, who will return the shame as soon as I encourage you to look at this video online.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u20	V.E.G. President. I would like to use my time today to draw attention to the fine effort that Iceland's government has proposed to Prime Minister Sigmundur Gunnlaugsson Gunnugason to appoint industrial and commercial ministers to initiate the establishment of Marketing Development Fund and Achievement with the aim of developing regular international airports other than Keflavík. During the discussion of this fine subject, some have promoted the fact that this will be a direct payment from a government fund. But the aim is that the funds will have an encouraging effect in foreign countries, and their contribution will be added to other trends and paid after flight is started, more specifically when minimal periods have been reached and then monthly thereafter. So, money has to come in before they go out. The government's contribution to the fund is expected to return in the form of tax returns, but it can be estimated that a direct tax product of two flights per week will be about 300 to 1,400 million per year. K. Each year, but the government's funds would continue after the three - year period of the fund. That's one of the good things I wanted to draw attention to. The other is that this is not a random development procedure but a careful, well - established plan designed by the local people that they have called for. The follow - up methodology is well - known from our neighboring countries and has given good results in rural development. By implementing this, we will improve the growth potential of enterprises in the North and East countries, further exploiting the national infrastructure, promoting economic impacts in the region and the country of the whole, improving housing conditions and quality of life, to name something.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u21	Mr. President. Of course, there were few things to be done for the Sveiner Bank during the days, and many have had big words about it. Perhaps there is reason to consider the scene, what is the Secret Bank, what it is to look at in its work, and what it does with its rich duty to maintain a high standard here. The late bank finds agreements, which obviously test the stability, with countries and rural groups as much as the general labour market gave the tone. In the first half of this year, the bank has a business hall, a trade - trade house of 8.8 billion. According to her own numbers, the ban on loans has increased by 72% in the first nine months of the year. In the first nine months of this year, the list of three large banks to their homes has increased by more than 50 billion - a figure that goes up to the famous 72 billion net in four years. If they continue to look back on them, homes' debts will no longer decrease as a percentage of land production with the same continuation. The government doesn't work with the Secret Bank. In his own analyses, the late bank now says that the State Policy will be detracted, and the Council is particularly critical of the failure to pay taxes under these conditions in the economy. So I feel that it comes from the hardest direction when management teams come up here and try to blame the United States alone, putting all the debt on it, without me beinglittled, what is the function of the direction growth scale is in terms of financial security and the risk of currency exchanges, which, of course, can form the harmful spiral we know so well. My analysis, Mr. President, is that, fortunately, it's not on fire but the heat is growing.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u22	V.E.G. President. I'll have a word later. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon of the Secret Bank. But today, I would like to discuss recent news reports of growth in some summer that passengers of entertainment travel around Iceland are sailed in small boats in the land of the Hornland. One of the most precious and delicate natural bulbs on the Horny coast is the peaceland of Iceland. What a concern it is, then, if large groups of tourists are, to check the back entrance into the land of peace! It must also be a reminder that if it is necessary for us to review rules and if it is necessary for the General himself to take rules and or a law to revise in order to prevent this, of course, we have an obligation to do so. I reiterate that if large groups of tourists are being staked into the Hornvik, almost every week, and that they are trampling down sensitive nature. It has been possible to control the spread of this land of peace, and we must apply all the counsel we have to prevent it from opening up so that it can be damaged that cannot be corrected.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u23	V.E.G. President. I'm happy about what happened. paritaprevir Engil's Egilsdóttir, however, regarding the opening of a new portal into the country. I'd like to state that I've cooperated with the group that put this to work, and it's a real pleasure. But I came here to discuss that last night we had a solemn day in the English language, and the one who is now at the root of all of them is the good poet, Hallgrímsson the son of Hallgímur. Now it seems that we have a poetage set in many parts of the country, and I have previously said that unfortunately, Jónas's memory was not done as high as that of the State's support of his place of birth. I believe it would be appropriate, now that 210 will be gone from Jónas's birth on November 16, 2017, for us to put all our strength in such a way as to prepare the knots in the coming year and up to this time that we can stand on the sound of the Braun in Öxnadal, November 16, 2017, and thus open up the place where we put the popi and punt Jonah, or whatever word we want to use for it, where we live those who want; scholars, students, young people, natureists, and others, the place where men can come, whether they are people or those who live, and enjoy the inheritance Jónas left in the beautiful nature that is.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u24	V.E.G. President. I want to thank you for the discussion that took place earlier today regarding the terrorism in Paris. The mind of all of us has been doing these terrible things lately. I am very concerned about the situation that has come up in Lebanon, but earlier this year I had the privilege of visiting Syrian refugees. In Lebanon the winter begins to appear, and people live in a very different setting, ranging from living in abandoned homes to living in tents. The winter is cold, and the people who live there are about to snow. The situation in Lebanon in the fall had become very tense in the community because of the number of refugees in the country and was called for by all those we met for greater support from the international community. We Icelanders, the Icelandic government, decided to contribute more money to them, including the U.S.A. to strengthen the health care work of the Red Cross of Lebanon. I fear that the tension and pressure from these attacks have grown even more. We need to pay attention and pay close attention to the situation. All of the Syrians in Lebanon are waiting to return home. The message from all of them was that their warmest hope was that those refugees who have temporarily made their homes in neighboring Syria could return to their homeland. So a little story brought my attention to the beginning of peace talks. I know that, of course, it is a long time ago that they will produce results and change things, but this is the very first step, hopefully hoping that something is breaking up in these matters.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u25	A respectable president. Hv. Senators. I stand here at the Council for the first time and give my so - called virgin talk, which, of course, the feminist protests that they call me so. I'm going to remember my great-grandfather, Ingibjörg H. Bjarnason, who first sat here at the council in 1922, and I have to say that my heart rejoices to follow in her footsteps here. But I also stand here as a member of the local government... and I want to use this opportunity to mention the issues of the seminaries... the problems of the disabled... and the positions of which the rural communities of the whole country are facing today. In the transfer of the items of disabled persons to rural society, the aim was mainly to improve the service to that group and to promote the integration of closer to the local community, that one administrative level should be responsible for most of the general social services, to ensure good use of funds, to simplify business division of state and rural society, and to promote the level of government. It's all good and blessed, the purpose is good, and I think that the joint conclusion of those who give it and those who accept it is that things have improved, and this is more efficient. However, there is now a debate between the European Union and the Ministry of finance regarding the serious situation of this delicate group. All over the country, I'd like to say, this is a major group of languages, and I'm aware that the funds that were set for the transfer are not enough. In fact, the 2009 State Review Report warned of the transfer at the time when it was suggested that neither funding nor service were properly defined nor would it be an imminent problem, which, unfortunately, has become the case. And even local government officials and local officials hear that it is the right to return this category to the state, where the debt of rural communities can miscalculate into basic services to meet the latrines of the business. It is more important than tears to reject even the requested parents of long - suffering, multitudeed children who ask for just a helping hand. We're discussing our smallest brothers and sisters, and I think if the taxpayers were allowed to hire and establish Kingdom interests, no one would understand that helping those who cannot fully help themselves would be cut off. In many cases, it has been found that the United States is well - intentioned and stands together when it comes to trying and helping them to find help in times of need. [[The president calls.]] I'm not saying that disabled people are everywhere in need, but it is our primary duty, who have mental and physical health to help us, to help those who cannot do so themselves. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u26	A respectable president. I'd like to discuss a matter that interests me. There is a lack of knowledge about the council's work in society. I feel that the Allied Congress and politics are being given tremendous publicity, and many are now the cutters of this hall. But I find that there's little knowledge of what's going on here, and I'm just speaking from myself, I knew very little about the Council before I sat down at the council. I found it when I came in here. I think a TV station like our TV TV should have a news show or an educational program on what's going on here. For example, I wondered if people in general know the difference between the Senate arrangement and the bill. What record do they have when they arrive at the council? Who can plead a case at the Council? What's the difference between Congress and executives? Why is it important that the council come early before the council? Why were we complaining about the other day that ministers would not come up and talk about it? How do the committees win? What is a process of review? Is it of utmost importance to us? Do people know that everyone can post reviews for Congress? Why is there so much disorganization at the Icelandic Parliament? In fact, three factors could be taken only about it, how to improve it, and what to do. There's something else. I've seen some misunderstandings. I don't often feel that a lot of people don't make a difference between the European Commission and the legislature. I've had to point out that I'm the 10th. Northeast monasteries and places in smaller parts. I can't make a bill and put it through the council. It's the role of the executives who are the Ministers sitting right here behind me. I think we have to do a lot better here. I feel that the discussion is superficial, and I often feel that it is a misunderstanding in the language of those who report about the council. I feel that this is part of the reason why trust in the Council is not enough that we often do not talk about the same things. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u27	A respectable president. In the beginning of this month, some 5,500 foreign visitors attended the music festival Airweaves, and together these guests left close to 1.7 billion bars. In currency. The number of people from the country who attended the festival is not considered to be 3,500. The festival paints a good, important feature of the city's life over winter and brings it to life. The festival has also played a role in extending the tourist period into the winter months and thus helping to make the tourist industry full - time. The festival is strengthened by 9 billion. K. From Reykjavík, and the Ministry of Industrial Affairs has strengthened the celebration by 2.5 billion. K. to feed on events in foreign lands. A festival like Airwes is just as important to lifting up what is happening in Icelandic music, since there are few things that have been spread to the country's propaganda beyond our culture; music, art, literature, and other art. It is where the little and tender is formed. A good book says that we should treat the little one as large and that is why I mention it here. The way we live our lives, where we choose to live, and what we are doing cannot be guided by the mistaken decisions made by politicians. People are to take responsibility for their own lives and create opportunities for their abilities. The above example shows that something that may initially appear to be small and insignificant may become very important when it is given the opportunity to thrive. Many jobs related to culture and art are precisely hurt. We should show them respect and understanding and try to strengthen them in a much more effective way than we do today.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u28	Mr. President. The greatest problem Europe faces and may have faced ever since the establishment of the European Union is the large number of refugees that are now entering Europe. The number is so great that it can be likened to the national transport that is taking place there. Hv. paritaprevir Unnur Konráðsdóttir Konásdótsdótttir said here a few minutes ago that all these refugees wanted was to get back to their home. You're absolutely right. I therefore believe that Europe, both the European Union and the European Council, should fight specifically for human rights, e.g. Refugees and those seeking refuge in various countries have failed completely in these areas. The same can be said of the Atlantic Alliance. Early 2013, there were ideas supported by Iceland's international bison that were used to create large cities of refuge in northern Syria, where refugees who had fled from their homes could find refuge in stores costed by the European Union and Western countries. It would also help to ensure that those who had been hurt, injury, or an ark might seek medical treatment. This was the case at the time. As a result, millions of Syrians have had to flee their own land. Another factor was Europe's failure to support the countries that set up refugee camps, such as Turkey, where 1.8 million Syrians have been active. It has been such and terrible, and the European Union has been so completely blind to the need to put up with the Turkish government that in it refugees felt more secure by setting up their great marches around Europe. Mr. President. I believe Europe has failed, and I believe it is the highest. The secretary of state and the Icelandic government are to put it into practice that the area of refuge that I first mentioned and increased support for a refugee camp, such as Turkey, will be on the list of priorities for Europe. [[The president calls.]] [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u29	A respectable president. I'm here on another occasion in order to recommend a national security policy in Iceland, unfortunately, in the shadow of the recent acts of terrorism in Paris. These brutal events remind us that security is not automatic and that incomprehensible atrocities can happen near us in time and bed. So I would like to use this opportunity here and to justify the sympathy of the government and solidarity of the French nation during difficult times. The attacks in Paris did not focus solely on French governments and French nations. They are directed against our civilization and our values, against freedom, democracy, and right citizens, and are actually directed against the pattern of life that we take for granted. I do not doubt that the attacks will have long - term consequences, but I have emphasized the importance of our initial and international reactions being balanced and adjusted. We must not be distracted by wrongdoing, which is just what these people would prefer, members of the Islamic state, but who have nothing in common with Islam. At the same time, it is not possible to ignore nothing. There is a real threat and ideological threat, which causes people to commit such atrocities that words are heard. These events and unfortunately the others in recent losses remind us to pay more than the usual attention to safety at home, close up strings, and make as much peace with key lines of security and defense. With that in mind, the General Assembly of September 16, 2011 agreed on the resolution of the then foreign minister, why. paritaprevir Sgt. Össur, son of Skarphéðinsson, to set up a Senate committee with a representative of all the classes that were then held at the General Assembly to carry out proposals for foreign ministers to shape national security policy for Iceland. The committee began work in 2012 under the leadership of the people. paritaprevir It's Bjarnadóttir's Valgerður. As a member of the committee, I personally witness about the good work and the wide reconciliation that characterized the work of the committee. The committee returned its proposal on February 20, 2014, along with the books individual councils. There's good reason to thank you again. paritaprevir A Valgerður made Bjarnadóttir and other representatives on the committee for their contribution. Also, I want to express thanks to all those who shared in the work in other ways. A great challenge in Europe's security environment has been the past loss. In fact, with the illegal incorporation of Russia in the Crimea last year, there is a new understanding of Europe's political history, and the situation continues to be very sensitive in the east of Ukraine. At the same time, the rise of the terrorist organization that claims to be part of Islam's realm continues. Hart, who fought in Syria and Iraq, and outside the horrors in Paris, the organization has declared responsibility for the explosion that took place in the Russian Air Force of Sinai for a recent example. Here, too, a respectable president, is absolutely reason to express sympathy and solidarity to a Russian nation. The situation in Syria and the Mediterranean region has resulted in the largest migration of people since World War II during those months again tested the interiors of Europe and its solidarity. Knowingly, the government has responded handsomely to this trend and will not leave its mark, but vast sums of money will be spent with refugees and inmates this year and the next. Although some time since the Senate Commission proposed their proposals and rapid changes in Europe's safety issues, the proposals of the Committee are solid, nevertheless, the basis for molding national security policies. The overall vision there is well planned for Iceland's needs as an armsless state. Thus, it is certainly a turning point, for the first time in the republican history, a whole policy of national security. It is important that there be a more objective, objective, and objective discussion of the state of peace. Before I take up my proposal's conclusions and the guidelines set out there, I'd like to briefly discuss the threats and risks that are the basis of the proposal. The data we have considered are a risk assessment report from 2009, a Senate report, an assessment of the U.S. Marshal's office on the threat of terrorism, and most notably the diagnosis of the Atlantic Community and its member countries. In the autumn of 2007, the minister of the cross-cutting task force was assigned to put up a risk assessment for Iceland and was submitted to the minister's report in March 2009. The assessment report considers global, social, and military risk factors. It defines the security concept in a collective way, and the national security it provides. The risk assessment includes particularly 15 risk factors that are not prioritised. First of all, it is about risk factors that might include the presence of a threat, i.e. Economic pressures, epidemics, natural disasters, wars, the use of weapons of mass destruction, and terrorism. Second, the sea is directed toward organized crime and man - made halls that undermine community security, individuals, and the state of justice. Thirdly, risk factors for the safety of infrastructure, air and agriculture are discussed, i.e. Network security, energy security, civil flight security, shipping safety, pollution, food and water security, road safety and communications security. The results of the work group include 23 general guidelines for safety policies, which are called after the shape of clear national security policy based on the extended definition of safety. Indeed, the Risk Assessment Report is a number of times for a child, and it is timely to review her individual factors or the overall risk assessment. Nevertheless, my opinion is that most of her points still have a good view. All the risk factors involved are once valid, but since then we have taken a special view of the threat of terrorism and the threat of war. A report by the Parliamentary Commission of February 2014 reports that Iceland enjoys stability and security. The report does not present a direct or linear priority for risk factors and threats. It, however, explains the major dangers involved and uses a flexible approach based on three categories. This arrangement also supports the synopsis. Group one presents the most likely dangers that should be put in the light of the management and financial resources. There are environmental pressures or accidents as a result of increasing climatic activity in northern areas, Internet threats and vandalism on the interior parts of society, and natural disasters. Group two presents threats that are more fundamental but still need full attention. There are organized crime, financial and economic security, food and food security, health security and epidemics and terrorism. A third category presents dangers that are unlikely to be involved here, but remember, on the other hand, that national sovereignty and independence in such a way would require action against them. In this category, there is a threat of warfare. Last February, the U.S. Marshal's office updated terrorist assessments and other massive attacks. Four high, low, medium, high, and high are presented in that assessment. The estimate shows that there is increasing uncertainty about the threat of terrorism in Iceland and in other parts of the North. In Iceland the risk level is estimated to be moderate, an increase of one category from the previous assessment. Therefore, it is concluded that the possibility of terrorism cannot be excluded because of a state within the country or in the world. In accordance with this assessment, there is the threat of terrorism in another high-risk national security policy, which is an increase from the lowest category according to the Senate report. In spite of the terrorist attacks in Paris, the governor has not needed further updates on the classification. Similarly, dangerous food, including the threat of terrorism, is regularly revised. As far as the threat of war is concerned, we feel that it is limited to Iceland. This is based on a number of analyses of the Atlantic and its member states. Therefore, the threat of warfare is the lowest risk factor in national security. However, Europe's development confirms the need for extreme vigilance in evaluating the threat of war in the months to come, and we will be particularly aware of the need to increase the risk category of war. The assessment, terror, and rapid forward development of these measures need to be taken into account. A respectable president. A policy of national security presented here is built up in the same way as Iceland's Arctic policy adopted by the General of March 2011. Here are ten pointed points highlighted in a line of resolution that will be a guide to safety and protection in the years to come. They remain unchanged from previous contributions with the exception that environmental benefits in the north are specifically specified. In the introduction, national security is repeatedly based on the commitments of the United Nations founding Convention and guided by the nation's baseline values: democracy and respect for justice and international law, humanism and protection of human rights, equality of all and sustainable development, disarmament and peaceful solution of issues. It says that the core reason for policy management is Iceland's position as a small island nation that has neither authority nor will to control its military, secure and active cohesion with other international powers. The policy involves global, social, and military risk factors and lies in active foreign policy, public security, and social security with other countries. Iceland's national security will continue to rest on the strong support that has guaranteed the safety and defense of Iceland nearly all of its republics, its involvement in the Atlantic Community and its defence agreements against the United States. The environmental and security benefits of Iceland in the north are under way, both international cooperation and domestic management. As for the membership of the Atlantic Community, it will continue to be a key factor in Iceland's defences and the main site of Western cooperation involved in civil terms to promote its own safety and other alliances. As regards its defense agreement, he will continue to ensure Iceland's defenses and continue to work on the development of cooperation on its basis, which will take into account military threats as well as other risk factors for mutual protection and security. Furthermore, policy emphasis is being placed on developing and further developing cooperation in Northern countries and other neighboring activities that attract regional interests and share in international cooperation in that area. Regarding active foreign policy, it says that the general security of Iceland, with active international cooperation on the basis of international law, and with a peaceful solution to issues, disarmament, respect for human rights and legal rights, equal to sex, and direct conflict against inequities, hunger, and poverty. Regarding defense equipment, it says that there is a need to ensure that in the country there are defenses, equipment, ability and expertise to meet the challenges Iceland faces and to meet our international commitments. With reference to the Council of Congress not only for protection policy but also for public safety and active foreign policy, the government's policy in public defence and security, which is being developed by the Public Safety and Security Council, is a part of Iceland's national security policy. This also takes into account the broad definition of the safety profile based on the 2009 risk assessment report. The general security and security policy is in custody of the Minister of the Interior and is recently completed. Network safety issues are then performed specifically, which says that the use of Internet security should be enhanced by continuing development of Iceland's performance and international cooperation. The government's policy on Internet and information security may have been announced in April as well as a three - year plan of action. It has long been declared government policy that there is no nuclear weapon in Iceland and that the decision to correct this was adopted at the General Assembly in 1985. For further enunciation of this policy, the proposal suggests that Iceland and Iceland are at peace with nuclear weapons, with the aim of promoting disarmament and peace from the part of Iceland. It includes Icelandic and geographical terms, taking into account international commitments, such as the United Nations Oceanic Convention, and commitments within the institutions and contracts involved in Iceland. In view of the implementation of national security policies and government policy on many government agencies and agencies, it is necessary to establish effective consultation and coordination between public bodies. Therefore, it is recommended that the Council of National Security be set up as presided over by prime minister. There will be a special legislation on the establishment of the National Security Council that will further address its composition, role and organization as well as its decision to ensure the integration of national security and current Public Safety and Security Councils. The proposal expects the State Department to consult the Internal Affairs on the contract of the legislature. The role of the National Security Council must be regularly assessed for security and protection status and monitoring the implementation of national security policies. The proposal assumes that the Council is subject to a re-evaluation of the policy at least every five years. The principle that a review can come from the Council itself, but it can also be submitted by the Council. Then I believe it is urgent that a new National Security Council will be launched into a new and collective venture and a fear - inspiring event. A respectable president. I'd like to complete my case of retrieving Iceland's foreign policy and national security based on Western cooperation and strong Atlantic ties, the involvement in the Atlantic Community and the defence agreements with the United States. The growing defense work in northern countries is a cause for rejoicing and strengthens that foundation. The next year's budget will provide additional protection contributions, including those for protection. in the name of the joint action of the Atlantic Community and with increased support to the nations of the Community that maintain regular air space protection in Iceland. Nine Member States have now received 23 shifts since the period of air protection was set up in 2007. The next year, the Czech Republic, Norwegians, and the United States will have their air - control services in Iceland, and 2017 will be expected to increase the number of air - space guards from three to four, as was actually established in the decision of the Atlantic Alliance of their time. They should be looked to that next year, ten years after the United States Guard left Iceland. Safety outlooks in the north Atlantic have changed at this time, and it is reasonable and responsible to examine whether in the security environment anything calls for updates on the system we are running around 2006. Each time, we need to look at our interests in security and defenses, which, of course, are linked to the interests of other alliances and adapt to the realities we see each time. I would like to make this decision, however, that there are no such discussions, and the General and Foreign Affairs Committee would always be informed of the steps that would take place. During this time Iceland has taken on considerable increased responsibilities in security and protection and until then, particularly Iceland's National Public Service and State Marshal's office, taking care of protective professional and professional projects. It was, therefore, especially enjoyable when I and a former ruler were present. Minister of State signed along with the heads of these institutions' contract over the past year, which establishes a better and permanent order of security and defense and is placed in the place of formal communication and consultation between the Presidency, Foreign and Internal Affairs. As indicated in my suggestion, it is urgent that Iceland is in place of necessary protective equipment, can and expertise to meet the challenges we face. So we need to strengthen our institutions and nurture the human resources that we have invested in over the past few years. A respectable president. The most important obligation of the government is to ensure the security of its citizens, and the government must shoulder that responsibility with a calmness of mind. This proposal that I recommend here is developed a trust policy that promotes long-term national security in Iceland on the basis of active foreign policy, protective policy and public safety. As such, I suggest that the proposal be followed by this discussion referred to why. Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u30	Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister clearly described how a special committee laid the groundwork for this proposal. That committee was like the highest. A minister ordered my motion adopted at the General Assembly during the last term. I want to say the bottom line. Minister when especially thanking. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for having led in such an artistic way by a parapolitic committee that led to the conclusion that this proposal is based on. It was, in effect, a political miracle and will uphold the name of that fine senator as national security is discussed in these sales. [[Laughter at the Hall of Congress.]] Work on a committee or something. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir was not merely based on the narrow security estimates of the past, which, in particular, bowed down to threats of sovereignty and militarism, but, rather, cooperated with all groups on the basis of what has sometimes been called the extended security. Other threats than military threat or direct threats to the sovereignty were taken there. This includes e.g. The climate crisis and many health problems that may confront a nation like ours. This will be discussed in a very detailed way in the return article of the Committee. The report also takes place. That's why I'm a little surprised, and it's my only criticism of the proposal itself, that, despite the fact that the report has three high - risk groups and only one of them defends the threat of military threat and the traditional threat of sovereignty, there are ten of the suggestions here that are not directly available on the climate threat. I don't think it's fallen to maintain the solidarity of the case. I'm asking the highest. A minister would not consider this desirable to be made clear in the final motion when the council completes its work with it. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u31	A respectable president. Of course, I do not minimize the comment that was given. A member of the Parliament brought along, thinking that it is really important that a foreign - language committee deal with the exact emphasis. A senator mentioned, whether sort and order need to be in some other way. What we simply do is take the work being done on the committee and list it according to what we believe best after the committee returned. As a result, we make that suggestion. It is quite normal, from the time since the committee returned because we did not finish this at our last assembly, to go through that proposal again. As I came to see in my case, it is quite clear that it is a ongoing task to maintain national security policy and to actually revise each aspect. A key role of the National Security Council is to reevaluate this policy. It is also clear that the Council may have a role in it and take the initiative to revise things. This is presented in the best sense and with the best conscience. Of course, the committee will discuss the matter in detail.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u32	Mr. President. I've never looked at the highest. Minister as no particular military hawk. It seems to me that there are some who may be more military than he may have influenced the final model. In any case, I believe, though I agree with the proposal, that there is a striking difference between the submissions of the committees. paritaprevir It's Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir and the proposal itself. So there's a reason I'm going to put myself in the motion of changing the motions myself with the idea that this balance will be better. I also think it's important that we maintain this solidarity. So I'm starting to split up, Mr. President. V.E.G. A minister naturally recognized the commendable aspect of the proposal that involved the nuclear neutrality of Iceland in certain articles. Iceland in all parts of the world has organized nations that have fought nuclear weapons. So have we. There was no change in my time, i.e. the past of the left government last sat. One of the first things I was introduced by my officials when we were reviewing cases involving our involvement in the Atlantic Union was that Iceland had always been on the wing of the coalition that wanted to reduce nuclear weapons. We were among such countries as Germany, Luxembourg, and Norway. I'm asking the highest. Minister: Is it not a paradox between what he emphasizes in the proposal and then again the action he had done in his name a few days or weeks ago when he literally gave Iceland a vote against nuclear weapons ban and did not even sit by like certain non - Biblical nations? Is it not a paradox between the proposal and that breakthrough? I also ask him: Is it not such a apostasy to discuss from the previous policy of many governments that he had come and at least fail to do so on the foreign committee? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u33	A respectable president. I thank the senator for the answer. First, let me mention that the only change that was made to the input of the matter now since our last session is that we raise environmental issues in the north. Second, I'd like to reiterate that the basis for our security is ours within the Atlantic Community and our two-way contract with the Americans. It is well stated in this suggestion. With regard to nuclear weapons, Iceland does not have anything to do with nuclear weapons. We oppose experiments with nuclear weapons and oppose the fact that they really exist. We have supported a process within the United Nations to counteract nuclear weapons and work and to help destroy them. There are two, three contracts that we've stressed. The suggestion was one of seven that was laid out. We had planned to support one suggestion that the Irish had made, but unfortunately they withdrew. We either sat by or voted back. The reason we voted for an assembly in a case was simply because we thought that the proposal suggested a new process that would lead to a step backwards. That does not change our view of nuclear weapons. We know, fine senators, that there are suggestions that have a good headline but the content is something to be investigated and passed through. [[Up front.]] We thought this would be a step backwards. You might wonder, and I'd be happy to admit that in this case you might have been able to sit by. However, we decided to resist wanting to declare support to the current process.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u34	Mr. President. Of course, we are happy that we will consider a Congress resolution on national security. This is important to us. We have received a reminder in the last few weeks and months, and we lose the importance of setting that course. However, I am concerned that in some respects we may be creating false security. What really concerns me is two things. On the one hand, it is clear that the risk assessment is 6 years old since 2009, and although some information has been updated based on archaeological assessment. The world has changed completely. We've seen the indentation of Monsters, civil war in Syria, air raids against Libya, which were well- meaning for the then United States government, and left greener, sometimes wanting to forget. Terrorism has become closer to us in Europe than we choose. I wondered if there's any concern in the highest mind. Minister, let us base on such an out-of-date assessment. However, it is clear that national security is largely based on civil institutions and our cooperation with other countries is on civil terms, including in the area of NATO and the defense agreement with the United States. [[The president calls.]] Therefore, national security management should be heard more than the State Department of State. [[The president calls.]] My question to the highest. Minister is: Isn't it proper to define the national security administration in a new way and move it from the Ministry of State to the Ministry of State? [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u35	I want to pray. Councilmen must watch out for times in conflict as well as in other places.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u36	A respectable president. Thank the senator for the inquiry. No, there's no reason to give national security to the administration. However, the proposal itself suggests that the National Security Council will be established, and it will be placed under the seat of the Ministry of Premiers or Prime Minister. It also suggests that one of the first actions of the National Security Council must make a new risk assessment. You're right. A senator says that there is a relatively long time since this evaluation was made, i.e. of 2009. Of course, we had other data to guide the writing of this proposal and then forward it, i.e. Data from the Atlantic Alliance and other sources of the committee. I insist that the National Security Council, if this proposal succeeds, will attack the production of a new menu. We decided to review some of the food from 2009. We didn't think it was a reason to stop. We thought it best to finish this proposal but also to emphasize that it would be attacked on such a basis. During this time, as noted in my case, the Federal Marshals'risk assessment of terrorism increased by one category. Today it is estimated to be moderate. It shows that during this assignment, people were alert to the changes that might have occurred since 2009. I reiterate once again, as assessed by the Atlantic Union, it is not yet considered that there is a reason to increase risk assessment of war, but, of course, it is worth a consideration at any given time what changes may occur in regard to such evaluations.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u37	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Minister of these answers. I'm just gonna keep going. The reason why I'm worried about government when it comes to national security is that the political responsibility appears to be unclear. It is quite clear that nearly all agencies responsible for national security, civil institutions in our sense, such as police, statekeeping, customs, etc., are under the State Department. It has to be changed and brought under the Ministry of State, or given the national security policy and its implementation, under the Ministry of Civil Affairs, to address the civil institutions to follow policy. There's another check for trouble. Let us try to have things together so that we will have power to do it and the political responsibility. It is not clear in the way we are going to have it. I think in the future, there will be a part of establishing a comprehensive policy in the National Security of the Icelands to re-established the administration and clarify the political responsibility. It is important to us that this is the way it is done. I'd like to ask the highest, too. Ministers at the end whether he is concerned with the need to initiate discussions with the U.S. government to improve Iceland's resources because of increasing activity in the North seas and/or if such discussions have taken place. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u38	A respectable president. First, since the collapse of the defense agency, the system we have had in defence has worked well. Recently, as shown in my case earlier, the Ministry of Internal Affairs and the State Department of State made an agreement, in order to explain these things further, so now all the procedures are clear. National Guard and State Marshal have concluded agreements with the State Department on certain projects. It's going very well. There is no need to change that in itself. Also important is international agreements and relations with foreign countries, and our allies will all go through the Ministry of State, of course. It would be a return to transfer all such administrations to phase two. This is in line with our Presidential decision and in accordance with our custom. I want to come in like a dog. One senator said when he wondered if it was not a reason to approach the United States for an increasing presence in Cheflavík. First, I would like to say that there are no such discussions and that they have not been. However, we have a 2006 agreement on specific equipment that we need to deliver in Keflavík. Within this contract, there are also certain duties of the United States, our allies. Of course, the agreement allows that living in Chefavík is evaluated from day to day as needed and otherwise. We've seen it. Last year, for example, there was a greater presence in Keflavík, but often before, simply because there was reason to do so. There's no negotiation of any restoration at Keflavík. However, there is good reason to review the 2006 contract and see if it has stood the test of time, whether something needs to be changed. [[The president calls.]] That is what we will stress, likely in the next year, to review this agreement, whether it will benefit us, whether it exists in the future. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u39	Mr. President. Thank you very much. Secretary of state for his speech. It is difficult to discuss a proposal for Congress on national security policy for Iceland now when we are in the shadow of terrorist attacks, not only in the distant world, but also in Europe or Paris. I want to say the bottom line. A minister when he speaks of the need to respond in moderation in the wake of the terrorist attacks but also that we cannot act as if it were not. I'd like to say that, fortunately, I feel that a discussion here earlier today is a good sign. Senators are aware of this. I think it's important to take that thought into the debate on this council plan. V.E.G. In his speech, a minister well traced the record of the formative decree from a Senate committee arranged in 2011 and, as noted, led by a rapid decline. paritaprevir It's Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir. I'm not going to repeat that record exactly, but I still want to refer to the package No. IV with the Assembly Relations Directive for national security, which provides the basis for the publication of the Left Motion of the Left Motion of Green, as provided with a committee. It says, by permission of the President: The left-over policies of Iceland in national security, a policy that takes into account the changing situation in international affairs. And there's one more thing to say: However, the left movement ▪ Green enough to feel that the emphasis on involvement in the Atlantic Community and, among other things, participation in air - space monitoring is having a bad convergence with the wide approach to national security policy, which in other respects is a solidarity. Finally, I want to quote this account, which says, by permission of the president: Therefore, WG members of the Committee do not support the proposals of the Committee and/or lead from Iceland's membership to the Atlantic Community, but support the other aspects. This is what you're gonna sign. paritaprevir Katrín Jakobsdóttir and former senator of the Left Motive, the Árni of Þór Sigurðsson. I wanted to keep this up for the discussion. Then closer to the Parliament's decision for national security for Iceland. I think it's a good thing for me that in the first number, it's the highest. In fact, a minister in his speech said that there was no special priority, has been added from the time the proposal was submitted a year ago, saying, by permission of the president: To be especially viewed for the environment and security of Iceland in the north, in international cooperation and domestic services. This is what I celebrate, and I think this is a step in the right direction. I'd like to say something, though. paritaprevir Aggressive Össur of Skarphéðinsson, who spoke of it in the past, may well make the climate threat better on course. I think it's something that's wrong. The Foreign Affairs Committee should take a close look at these matters. I'm not going to start reading all these notes from word to word, so everybody can study the matter and look into it, and that's why I'm only going to refer to them. I'd especially like to refer to section 5, which is about ensuring the global security of Iceland's active international community, with regard to various factors, such as sexual equality, the struggle against hunger and poverty, and the respect for human rights and disarmament, to name, and peaceful solutions to issues. I think that team is very important when we think about the global security interests of Iceland, but it certainly raised a question, and I think it's in total opposition to this team that last week it's time to pay Iceland at the United Nations Congress a vote against a proposal that nuclear weapons will be banned. V.E.G. According to one secretary, the proposal for the United Nations includes a new process to reduce or eliminate nuclear weapons. I have to say, I think it's extremely necessary, because the nuclear powers are in these words, uplifting their nuclear weapons. I think it's perfectly normal that we take a little harder action because, in my opinion, the nuclear threat and the threat of nuclear combat is growing again. These weapons and thinking are being updated, at least for some, to try to create what is called a strategical nuclear weapon that can be used, if thought that they can be used, in local warfare. This, I think, is a huge global threat that has to be dealt with. I'd like to use this opportunity to point out why. A body of elders may react to the fact that I and others are angry. Parliamentaries have proposed a synonym, which is, in fact, consistent with the proposal that Iceland voted against at the United Nations scene. In fact, the Senate can still intervene and respond to it, banning nuclear weapons. I hope I can recommend the proposal before it's too long. And I'd also like to mention that I'm particularly pleased with the 9th in this suggestion that there is no peace on the part of nuclear weapons. Although nuclear weapons are more powerful and destructive than the fact that they respect borders or economic laws, I believe this is relevant in the large global relationship and is actually known as the 5th past. I reiterate that I find it boring that Iceland had voted against this proposal. That's what I'd like to say. The Foreign Affairs Committee should examine the order in which the synonym is proposed because, on the other hand, it is read and the bill was written by the bill, I believe it is to the highest degree. A minister says that the order of transfer is not set in any particular priority, so people will read it in this way. I find inconsistencies between the categories and the dangers put in priority and the points presented here, where the threat of war is extremely intense, but it is now placed alone in the 3rd category on dangers that it is unlikely to confront Iceland or to weigh the national sovereignty and independence. That's what I think I'm like. The Foreign Affairs Committee should review and examine.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u40	V.E.G. President. I want to, as it has always been, thank you very much. Secretary of State for bringing in this synonym. We discussed it in the last spring but did not have time for the council to end the matter. Although the discussion was not completed at the end of the council, she received a series of publicity at the State Committee, yet an interesting discussion on the subject of the proposal took place at the end of the council. Without going back to the discussion that took place or spending a lot of time quoting it, it is safe to say that in general there was quite a good solid solid agreement on the principle of the proposal. There was a question as to whether individual teams were being given sufficient weight, and I assume that this discussion will come back to the Commission in this fall. Similarly, the administration was not surmounted by proposals for the changes involved, i.e. The National Security Council and its place in the administration system. Third, consider how individual factors were organized into high - risk groups, as it were, when individual risks were assessed. All of this, I assume, again, will be discussed by the foreign committee when it will take this matter for treatment in the coming days. Of course, on the general policy level, I'd like to say that it reflects in some of the changed realities we are in. The situation is that international unrest has increased, and it is clear that it affects Iceland. If we look at the period since the end of the Cold War, there have been incidents in Europe and around us that there are more security issues than has been in the past. There have been changes in Eastern Europe, which put international systems in a different context than they have been. Then, first of all, I'm talking about the incorporation of Russia at the Crimea and their involvement with East Ukraine, where they have directly or indirectly contributed to the rise of apartheidists who are engaged in military conflicts with the authorities in Ukraine. Of course, the Indentation of Crobyga was an exceptional example of disregarding international national and national powers. Indeed, the events and increased military structure on the part of the Russians have caused concern in the West, and it is a reason for us to take that into our national security discussion. There is no need for much attention to the struggle between the Mediterranean and other areas of south and east of Europe, but it is clear that the devastating conditions in this region are affecting Europe and the Western countries in many ways. One is a direct threat of terrorism, one of which is the vast number of refugees streaming from those areas to Europe. It is clear that when we contribute to national security, we need to look at these factors and see things in that context. The fact is, whether we like it or not, the situation in our part of the world is in many ways less uncertain than has been for a long time. It is clear that when it comes to protecting the outside security of the nation, so to speak, our involvement in the Atlantic Community and a defence agreement with the United States is still key factors. There is nothing to replace that when we look at our land cover in the traditional sense of their words. Other factors that arise and can disrupt our national security, such as terrorism and Internet attacks or various Internet crimes, are rather defined as internal matters, although the limit is unclear. However, this is a threat to national security and need to be taken into account. This is done fine in the suggestion presented here. I think it is necessary for us to bear in mind that when it comes to defense in this area, the authorities who have the responsibility to control both the human resources, the equipment, and the knowledge needed to cope with such dangers. Of course, it is clear that law enforcement agencies here, if we ever talk about it, have not been part of the contractions that have been going on in the past few years. It has been tried to correct some extent, but I believe that it needs to be better. Then I am primarily considering the position of the law enforcement agencies who have a role from day to day in the matter of monitoring, defenses, and reactions to such threats. Of course, these threats vary. For example, there are ongoing Internet attacks. Thus, facilities for them need to be ongoing. The terrorist attacks, as well as the Icelanders, have been on guard against them so far, but of course you notice that the threat of terrorism in many neighboring countries has increased. Last February, the U.S. Marshal's diagnostic department reported that the threat of terrorism in this country had increased since earlier times. New onset events have not changed that estimate; this has not been considered to be a reason to increase the agricultural level in this country because of them, but, of course, it is something that is constantly for reevaluation. In any case, we need to look to these factors in a national security discussion. The work of a Senate committee has been referred to, and the proposal is based on it. The work being done there is very good for this discussion, but it cannot be overlooked that the situation in international affairs, near our environment, has changed considerably since its release. The same applies, of course, to the 2009 risk assessment. Conditions vary considerably, and in some respects they have already been reacted in the preparation of this arrangement. There is a reason. A foreign committee needs to take into consideration when putting its final hand on the document that we expect to become a national security policy approved by the General.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u41	V.E.G. President. You're right next door. A member of the Parliament that circumstances have changed in some respects in the Northern Hemisphere since the report by Professor Ingimundarson Ingumdarson, who was, in fact, the beginning of this entire case, was finished. I'd like to ask you what. A senator whether he believes that those views that have arose on the edge of Europe will lead to a new danger assessment. Second, I'd like to ask. A member of the Parliament on the issues of climate. Now, I don't think that in the long run, no one is aware of the greatest disaster we are facing is the one that is related to climate, and that's why I feel there's no way that in the ten proposals that are found in the Congress resolutions as high as possible. Just before that, a minister spoke of climate or climate problems, or the earth's global warming. I believe that if we are to succeed in continuing the reconciliation that was very close to the last term when we completed this task, it is necessary to deal with this difference between what was found in the report of the committee. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir and the other person in the motion. That's what happened, like what happened. In his excellent speech, a senator mentioned a significant discussion on the Foreign Affairs Committee last year. I'm asking why. While he is, unfortunately, away from good fun and no longer a member of the Committee, does he not count in the force of his knowledge of the bottom line of the committee and in the general case that it is worth anything to try to change the proposal to increase the importance of climate and thus increase the possibility of continuing the reconciliation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u42	V.E.G. President. About the first question why. The senator's opinion on the risk assessment is that there is good reason for this organized action, that national security risks will be regularly assessed. I think the proposal or approval of her must be a form of induction on that assignment and it becomes the role of a National Security Council or a similar relief plan for having such a job. I think that's what we need. Of course, a reassessment has taken place in the controversy that this proposal appears in the council both here and in the same way as in our major alliances and neighbors, but I still believe that there is a full reason for such an evaluation soon to take place. About the second question why. The senator can say that the views given to the State Department during the last spring were very strong that climate issues would need to be more meaningful in order to emphasize their importance in this context, since it is the right thing mentioned here that the changes due to climate change can have a very serious and dramatic effect on our security situation in this context. However, I must say that it is my opinion that the main weight in climate policy is, of course, in other areas and in other contexts than in this. However, it is only natural for them to be more important when discussing national security policy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u43	Mr. President. Thank you. A senator for clear answers. Hv. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year, the chief member of the Independence Party when it comes to foreign affairs, made it clear that he felt that the climate should be clearly given in discussions about national security. I can only assume that it would be successful for the whole case that it was reflected in the suggestion. Also, I was happy to hear it. A senator said that according to the changing circumstances, a new high - risk assessment would have to be made for Iceland. However, he also made the same clear that he believed that it was a step that should be taken after this proposal and following the incident of the National Security Council and that it would be any authority then in order to make such a suggestion. At any rate, I felt that I could not accept the proposal until I made such a dangerous assessment. But I'm not going to argue with it to the point. A senator is one who at times tries to slow matters down. However, I had to admit that spontaneously I thought of the Board of Directors, now at work. But, hey. paritaprevir Clearly, a Birgir's Ármannsson feels that the matter is so important that he wants the chronological order of the two in such a way that a new risk assessment would not be necessary to delay and accept this proposal.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u44	V.E.G. President. Just to make it clear, I believe that the Foreign Affairs Committee should, of course, discuss an assessment of the dangers we face in various aspects of our treatment of the proposal. However, a formal risk assessment is considered to be in the hands of the National Security Council or similar parties after the proposal has been agreed. I can see that there's something to be done, some of the standards based on the experience of neighboring nations, and that it needs to be formal and organized. I don't see it happening directly in the administration of the Foreign Affairs Committee while the matter is being developed at the council.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u45	President. It's a pleasure to be overwhelmed by national security policy. National security policy, of course, should be fundamental, but at the same time it is possible to deal with the constantly changing realities that we are not an island in our own sense, sole in the geographical sense. I was on this committee during the last term, which gave me this foundation. I wanted to ask you what. A senator has shown that the case that I discussed with the book has added meaning to the recent developments. It's like this: The ability to protect government and government immunity as well as the privacy of citizens of the state is based on the cornerstones of democracy. Modern technology has enabled the authorities in other countries to collect the digital data of all Icelanders in an invasion of the republic's constitution. It is clear, therefore, that the Icelandic government needs to develop policies in cooperation with international institutions and organizations that are specialized in ensuring digital privacy across borders to ensure national security in Iceland. Now I'm going to regret that in this conclusion. Secretary of state that this is not a firm word. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir Birgir Ármannsson, if he has any research on the subject.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u46	V.E.G. President. For this particular point, it is my opinion that this should be noted in the treatment of the committee. I think that to the information that has been presented in the last few years, on the possibility of intelligence in order to get information, most of us were concerned, so I think this is one of the things that need to be taken into account. In national security policies, the Internet is one of the areas that need more attention and that has become a revolution in recent years. There are many threats. One is acts of terrorism or an attack designed to cause harm or resolution, attacks on important structures or systems that govern the interiors or the like, a direct criminal activity designed for capital gain, followed by random attacks. However, it is known that in some cases a state is behind Internet attacks to cause interference or to get information. It has troubled us with the information that our friends and alliances have also taken action of the kind, as well. A senator mentioned, contrary to our viewpoint, is contrary to the principles of personal freedom and privacy.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u47	Thank you so much for the answers. This is just the basic thing that really matters. Surely our national security would be weaker if foreign nations or nations had access to all communications between the highest government and important organizations in the country. Therefore, it is very important that we do what we can to ensure that the views of our alliances are unacceptable; I think it is very important that we are not in an alliance to engage in such a work with other nations, with cities of other nations at the same time. There's one thing I'd do, too. When we were building national securityism, we had differing opinions. It's the books from a representative of the Independence Party and the left greens that are somewhat different in the issue of nuclear weapons and whether or not we're against them in our own country. We have a little wording in this direction that says we are opposed to nuclear weapons and we are ready to go against nuclear weapons or nuclear disarmament as long as it does not conflict with international agreements. They all know that it's NATO. I'd like to ask you what. paritaprevir A Birgir Ármannsson of a year believes that we can ever really take advantage of nuclear weapons while we are in NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u48	V.E.G. President. I think we're supposed to take advantage of these matters in the field of NATO as well as in other places. Nuclear weapons are part of NATO's defense mechanism, beyond which it will not be overlooked. In recent years and decades, we have declared opposition or willingness to reduce nuclear weapons and work on disarmament in that area. I believe we should continue to do so. Reference to international agreements not only applies to NATO but also to questions about the freedom of sailors and aviators. But I think we can do what we've done -- I think it was 1985 that first came out of the U.S. government declaration - integrating this, being in NATO, speaking a voice disarming in that field and elsewhere. I don't think it's incompatible, but of course it makes that, under some circumstances, there may be some conflict between our policy and our presentation. I think it's realistic to assume that it may be. I think we have the possibility to promote the views of disarmament and the importance of reducing nuclear weapons, limiting the spread of nuclear weapons, and so on without affecting our situation in NATO.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u49	Mr. President. There is much good about this matter to say, both as such and perhaps even more of the work that is behind it. I don't think it's excessive to say that this work, this proposal, and its payment if it succeeds, make a significant breakthrough. I'd like to believe that this is one of the biggest times we've been getting used to. We are familiar with this discussion and have shared in it, including this for 30 years. We'll remember a time when every discussion about foreign or military or security was in a pretty high and rigid hole. It didn't go too much for the associate. I'm more likely to think it takes again for 1949 or 1951 to find a time in which we have as broad a solid solidarity on the vital aspects of these matters as we have been born in the past few years as with this work. Then, of course, I refer to the fact that since Iceland became the sovereign state of 1918 and decided its neutrality and that 1949 was a matter of good solidarity. Our neutrality was so strong that we did not even become founders of the United Nations, as it is known. In general, I have experienced the story so that during these years, from the mid - 1920's until the middle of the last century, there was some solid solid agreement that the cornerstone of foreign policy was neutral. Then there are other times, and they got pretty cold and pretty mean and tough. Yet, we are gradually moving further away from them. I think I'm going to build a little bit of the approach this has led to the results, the definitions and the clearance point taken. I must say, I am very pleased with the introduction of the proposal. The introductions are remarkable, as is the case. The third paragraph, which will take point at the establishment of the United Nations Convention and the baseline values listed there; democracy, respect for the legal state and international law, humanity and protection of human rights, equality for all, sustainable development, disarmament and peaceful solution of issues. It will then be stated that the core reason for policy management is Iceland's position as a small island nation with no authority or willingness to have an army. Here is very solidly established by our fundamental policy that we are not going to prepare, not arm ourselves. Then, with the permission of the president, it says: The Commission covers global, social, and military risk factors and includes active foreign policy, public security and social security with other countries. All right. Then comes the list. It is also a turning point. It is beginning to occur and considered in team 1 that Iceland's environmental and security interests are being looked out for in the northern regions of international cooperation and domestic management. V.E.G. The minister of the State here informed me that there would be an environmental benefit to be made if I did understand it correctly. That, of course, is well. Then it comes to the number 2 and 3, which can be debated, as well as the classifications that I'll take later, which should be listed there, based on the general risk assessment of developing a third category of war threats over dangers that are unlikely to occur in Iceland, whether this should necessarily include the number 2 and 3. We have a warning, as we know, and the main reason is that our representatives of the Committee at their time made a booking, and I refer to it. The fourth team is also a bit important, to promote and further develop North American cooperation over security and defence and other neighboring activities. About 15 years ago, this would have been pretty impossible, or 20 years ago, it would have been about 20 years since the Foreign Ministers first arrived at the Council of the Northern Council in Copenhagen in 1988. The issue of foreign and security has become an important part of the program in Norwegian cooperation, as is the Council of the Northern Council in Reykjavík during the days. I agree, too, that this is a lift. I believe that the Norwegian and Western partnerships are one of the cornerstones of our foreign policy. To shorten my case, I am bound to the 9th, which, of course, pleases me, which says: 'To Iceland and Icelandic land immunity is a peace-in-the-count nuclear immunity, taking into account international commitments, with the aim of promoting disarmament and peace of Iceland on the half. It's a pleasure to see, and then there's nothing left, and the proposal will be accepted, except for what's been around us for a long time, to legalize this course. I've probably offered a fairly large bill on Iceland's nuclear declaration. I'm gonna do it in the next few days. I've been hoping to get even more parapolitic support for this, in the form of cosmologists than so far. In most cases, some of the candidates of the advance party have presented the matter. I'm still waiting for some answers. In this regard, independents have been reluctant, and in connection with the 9th team, they become participant that it is members of the Independence Party as one book before these emphasis. It means in human language that this is a support without reservation from representatives of all other categories. It's a pleasure. Then we're working in our independent friends that they're coming in together, and we're going to finish legalizing and setting up the course as high as the highest level. In the mid - 1980's, a minister of foreign law correctly mentioned that it is also legal as a core of our emphasis. Then I'm just going to step up the classification that I find very interesting and to be honest with no less milestone than anything else in this matter, even the most. To me, it is a great improvement, the great victory of the views that have wanted to extend the security concept and take a realistic and practitional approach on this subject, to define what is the safety and well - being and well - being of a normal citizen in Iceland primarily, what is happening to us that may threaten our existence here. There are dangers that should be put first in the matter of military service and financial resources. First, it is an environmental threat or an accident because of increasing business in the North. I'm not gonna go through with this. Under these circumstances, I would classify the acidification of the sea, which is probably the unique threat that is far more serious to us Iceland and related to global warming and climate change. Second, it is an Internet threat and vandalism on the inside of society. Yeah. We can take, for example, the energy system and the national energy security. We have a synthetic electrical system that is completely computerized and guided in that way. Most of the work has become unmanned. Invasion into such a system can be devastating. Third, it's such a disaster. We know them, we do not need to reenact them; we are regularly in a state of alert because of such things. The second category presents threats that need full attention. It is first considered to be a organized crime. Yes, indeed, she's been knocking on the door from time to time, gangs from the North, motorcycle gangs, or whatever there is now that have nothing to do with motorcycles but are nothing more than gangs, selling drugs, and engaging in man trades and prostitution. They've been trying to get their feet down here. We know, and this definitely belongs there. Then there's financial and economic security. Yes, in view of a recent experience, I guess it would be better to have it. Food and food safety. Yeah. Health safety and disease. Yeah. We have considered both in recent years when we have been living in critical times. And terrorism. I'm sorry. Perhaps even the Atlantic itself is not enough to make sure that such a thing cannot be knocked on the door, although in many ways we are better protected than others in that regard. Third category are dangers that are unlikely to converge on Iceland, but remember to weigh the national sovereignty and independence. There's just one thing listed, and there's a threat of war. It's most unlikely. She's third. I agree completely with you, and I've always been. I have always felt that the high priority in trying to put Iceland and Iceland's security into the arms of big nations or countries that are totally different geographically is a big misunderstanding. If we have a reasonable agreement on these categories, it is normal to read the suggestion and arrange the amount of money accordingly. That's when I think it's the best. In fact, the minister of foreign affairs is not on course when it now proclaims an increase in expenses. What for? Not one or two, but the most part of a project that would be connected to the third category. But let it be a part of that good day. [[The president calls.]] Here we are primarily in the process of expanding our partnership. I think it's a very good thing, and I hope that you can land it here at the council, if you don't have complete solid solidarity with a unanimous payment, in the end, in the same way as the nobility of the committee, that you can fit in with the vertebrae in this, and that you will notice that the events of a unique element.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u50	Mr. President. Thank you. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon for a good review of the matter. A lot of effort was involved. A senator would have to continue the solidarity that has ruled over it. He was right about the remarkable fact that those who warned about the matter were the Independence Party. All the others reached an unprecedented stand, and it seemed very important to me at the time. Hv. In view of the fantasy wish of continuing to achieve this accord, a senator may be able to land matters in a way that will continue the unity we had in charge of the matter. I'd like to ask you what. A senator: Does he see any obstacles to accepting the matter possibly with known warnings from their foreign policy? In what way does that count? A senator would need to change the suggestion to increase the likelihood that what I allow to be called a normal agreement could be achieved?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u51	Mr. President. For the purpose of all of this, the Committee's Watch Tower also lists the existence of a representative of the left green at its time in terms of the 2nd and 3rd counts and then the accounting of the independent figures of the 9th. However, they are on the committee's side, and the suggestions are made together with them. I hope so, yes, that it will be possible to win the case this way. Never give up. It should not be excluded that this whole thing can be handled entirely by humans and that it can be handled by a unanimous accord, but there would be no local failure after incidents, although it was a common committee from a foreign committee with comparable warnings and eventually became part of the committee's work. paritaprevir It's Bjarnadóttir's Valgerður. In turn, this could lead to remembering incidents wanting to sit next to one or two numbers of the proposal and then following it. I have no reason to think otherwise. Now I'm neither the president of the Left Green nor the members of the State Department, so I speak more for myself. But I know something about my people.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u52	The conscience of the party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u53	I have no reason to believe that our emphasis will be in harmony with what was in the commission that we worked very hard. May I remind you that then, the chairman of the State Department of State, the Árni Þór Sigurðsson, former senator, now the ever-growing Ambassodor of the U.S.A. Foreign minister, and then at the beginning of the God-Guðfríður case, Lilja Grétarsdóttir and later daughter Katrín, Jakobsdóttir's daughter, the current president, were at that job and went to a lot of work. We are very interested in following this. I say for my part that although it's not 100% like I had it and we, it's as 95% as I would have liked to have it. The only thing, except for those two numbers we're paying attention to, would be to some degree the order on the numbers that I thought could be better in line with the risk categories, like what I was doing. In fact, a senator has established several comments today. [[The president calls.]] I'm still waiting for what. A senator will give a speech, but I have determined his position from the answers.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u54	President. As mentioned by the last speaker, a major issue of international politics was seen in the middle of the last century, depending on the foreign differences, especially on defense and security issues. The world changed, and five or six years ago, or in 2010, the world had so changed to the highest. At that time, a minister of the State, Össur Skarphéðinsson, made a decree that a Senate commission be formed to prepare and shape a national security policy called. The proposal was adopted on September 16, 2011, and all classes voted for it except independence. They did not sit by, a respectable president, they were opposed. Nevertheless, the committee was set up and worked well until the end of the season. We had actually completed a physical discussion at the end of the season, but for some strange reason, that I never understood--I was the president of this committee--then we couldn't put the dot behind us. I feel like the highest. The secretary of state Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson is worthy of much commendation for being willing to accept the decision of the committee in February 2014. This is not always so that although the committee has completed its work, another minister, who has accepted, is willing to accept something that his predecessor started. I think it's the highest. Minister to a great deal of praise. Now we look at a proposal for a resolution on national security policy for Iceland, and it's based on members of the Parliament's Committee. However, I must honestly say that I find the emphasis a little more armored, if I may say so, but the work of the committee went on. We worked on and spoke specifically about three things. We had a comprehensive view of national security policy. We said that foreign policy should be based on active foreign policy, and there we speak of international cooperation, national cooperation. For example, we put emphasis on the development of a peace - and - human bond. Thus we tried to highlight a softening attitude, not that militaristic view of safety. We stressed that the Icelanders should give up their share to support economic and social development by developing cohesion, civil contribution for peacekeeping and humanitarian care, and emergency assistance. These were emphasises, so I mention a few, in the active foreign policy, which was so called. Then we talked about defense policy. It was certainly based on involvement in the Atlantic Community, its defense agreement with the United States, the cooperation with the North countries, and two - side work, which may not be as formal, as well as cooperation with, such as the British and the French. There are these factors, defense policies, and this old emphasis on the security concept - I must say exactly as it is, I can well sign this council-sense proposal. I'll join my platoon brother. Skarphéðinsson I think that the attitudes needed to be adjusted, such as in our report for climate change, have to be explained. Other than that, I agree that there are pillars like the Atlantic Alliance and the deal with the United States. However, I still feel a little focused on this in this council concluded proposal so that I am completely honest with it. Third, we said that foreign policy needs to be based on public security and that the public system needs to be supported and Internet security is crucial. It is specifically stated in the synonym, so there is no need to complain about it. Now the risk assessment has been changed, and terrorism has now become the type of event that needs special attention. Of course, it's clear, from the late winter when disaster occurred in Paris, and I don't talk about the horrors we spent last week in Paris too, that we have to look to it. But I want to agree with those who have spoken here earlier today because of the terrible terrorist attacks that it is very important that we do not look at it very narrowly. A respectable president. I'm gonna let me tell you that it's very important that we keep our ball, as kids will say. There is another clearly stated in the work of this committee, for which I had the privilege of being president, and that is exactly why we must understand that our civil institutions, whether it would be in the rescue that would happen, need to cooperate with an army. It is usually armies that these civil institutions need to contact, such as the police or the National Guard, if they are in contact with foreigners. But it must never happen that these civil organizations of ours will come to the fore of an army. It's a thing that can't happen. We need to be very careful of that. We need to remember that - especially in the atmosphere of today's countries around us and in part around the country because we all feel scared when such tragic things happen as they did in Paris for the weekend - that we are not to be forced to go into action. We're supposed to speak for peace, and that's what I think we're trying to do, and that's what we're supposed to do in our national security policy. It is to be held in such a way that it leads, not to conflict, but to peace.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u55	Mr. President. When the senator himself is sick. paritaprevir Steingrímur J. Sigfússon complains that I did not give a speech, I now feel happy that I make a silent decision to make a brief few things. In short, I express my support for this council resolution. I was at the time the founder, since the committee that established the proposal was put on order, and I still want to say the highest words. Minister for what? paritaprevir The Valgerður of Bjarnadóttir, chairman of that committee, is to be commended for having managed to sail that vessel almost whole - souled. It takes at least an almost political miracle to have achieved such an extensive solidarity over a matter that is in its nature as complex, difficult, often leading to the deepest dissensions we have seen in Icelandic politics, to have been able to build a bridge that carried the packs all together within the table to the country. I find that to be an amazing conclusion. I don't hesitate to say what men grinned here a little earlier today that I believe it will make her a foothold at least for a long time in Iceland's safety story. I have already declared that although I support this proposal, I feel that there is some difference between the content and nature of the proposal on the one hand and the other, the subjugation as well as the subjugation of the committee. paritaprevir Valgerður Bjarnadóttir was. As we have studied in the discussion, we have built the strategy presented here as a suggestion for the dilation of the security concept. It is no longer the narrow ancient concept of security that was primarily responsible for national and military threats. This tour, it can be said, began with the fine report that Professor Ingimundarson Ingumundson worked for the Ministry of his time and was a risk assessment report in a situation far different from what is today. That report was important. At that time, with great peace in our part of the world, it became clear that fighting lines were no longer around Iceland. They had moved everything else. Under these circumstances, there was a set of steps to consider other national security factors. In order for everything to be done, it is proper to recall here that the man who first chose the new security concept was a man who later became president of the forward party. It was Jón Sigurðsson who published a very nice report. In fact, the State Department published it, but Jón Sigurðsson, later the industrial minister, was the man who first developed the new security concept here in Iceland. It involved not only the threat of military warfare at that time but many other factors, such as Internet security, that many thought to be a strange concept in their time, disease, epidemics, food security, climate cover, and, of course, a number of pollutions in the sea. In that light, the very point is clear. paritaprevir The cognition of J. Sigfússon in his speech earlier that, of course, one of the things that are to be expected here is the acidification of the sea, which is far more devastating to Icelandic society than people in general seem to realize, though well. paritaprevir Elín Hirst too is not to be commended for having brought the council to its attention in a very thorough way in a form of church eulogy that she has proposed. I believe that it is also historic after all the conflict and the dissension that defence - related issues have led to an Icelandic community that the former chairman of the left movement has a green offer, and the former chairman of the Common Community is coming here in a speech room, stating that he feels that there is no limit to the fact that his class can accept this proposal with reasonable warnings devoted to the special policy that he has in foreign affairs. But he added that he had 95% agreement. It's very important. I don't think that ever before in the history of the Generals, not at least in the Republic Times, there was the seeming solidarity here. Of course, there are differing opinions about how we should defend Iceland's sovereignty. I am well aware that there are many, or at least Some in these council halls who believe that we have no reason to remain within the Atlantic Community. I want to make it clear, however, that the group I am part of, the Convergence, has developed a policy there. We believe the safety of Iceland is the best safe city by means of the Atlantic Community, which is primarily referred to in Article 5. and also on the basis of the two-sided defense agreement we have with the United States. Of course, it is an important part of each government to defend its own country, and it is a vital part of the sovereignty to stand up for such defenses. We have chosen, Icelanders, in this way to hand it over, in effect. We've made deals that are important. In the past 15 years, many have felt that it most likely was an out - of - date assembly. The great peace that prevailed near Iceland led to the idea that people living in a time of cold war, far warmer than they could find, had disappeared. But the world is as it is, and we have seen it in the Ukraine conflict where the Russians have done a great machine, using new methods, that governments, even in Iceland, must do what they think is necessary to ensure safety of the citizens. That's why I say what I think, and I don't necessarily want others to share it, that I think it's bad enough that Icelanders continue active participation in the Atlantic Alliance. I think it's very important. Other than that, the discussion that has been conducted has shown that there is a potential for great solidarity in this regard. There's one particular particular thing I'd like to discuss. There was something in contrast with the Independence Party at the time when people were trying to settle for Iceland's nuclear-free country, in effect, with the warnings in the proposal. There's nothing new. That has been a course for a long time. In Iceland, 74 rural societies have declared that they do not want nuclear weapons within their own ranks. Of course, I know that such consents have no material consequences because it is a foreign minister who has the authority to command them. However, this illustrates the will of those in charge, and this may indicate that 94% of the people live within the ranks of these rural communities. It is also true at the end of this talk to recall that all streets since 1985 have been a clear policy of the Icelandic government that nuclear weapons are not stored here on land, and it also takes up military ships in Icelandic jurisdiction. It was an attitude not shaped by any left control. The two political commanders who developed that direction were none other than Hermannsson's Steingrímur, one of the most magnificent leaders of the forward party, and Geir Hallgrímsson. They were totally smart about it. And on April 16, 1985, Geir Hallgrímsson, then minister of the Independence Party, published a clear statement on this. This declaration has never been made any further, and other foreign ministers who have subsequently sailed have not needed it, and I don't think there is any special need for it. But that is still the case, and it is important to realize that in spite of all of this, historical harmony has been evident regarding this aspect of foreign policy. That's why I was pointing an answer to the question earlier. Secretary of State on why Iceland would have voted against the ban on nuclear weapons. And just to make it clear on my part, I'll give an explanation to the highest degree. A minister of absolute values thus making it clear that the current government has not changed its view of nuclear weapons from the past.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u56	A respectable president. It is not my intention to extend this discussion specifically, but it is a kindly and obliged me to come up here and say I'm happy to recommend here for a proposal for a national security resolution for Iceland. I was one of those who was rather sad that this council proposal was not all the way through the council during the last council after a good and extensive discussion with a foreign committee. I'd like to state that I am looking forward to taking the proposal back on the subject. It is vital that we set our course and that it is the General who is working that way. Therefore, I especially want to celebrate this course and its origin, how it will come into existence from the decision of the then-to-be at the highest. Minister and then senators of all council groups who were then serving at the council. It has been said at times during the previous discussion that things are different, it is referred to as a risk assessment, that it may have become old and out - of - date since 2009. I agree that it's important to do the first job of making a new risk assessment. There are other changes, including the politicians, and now that this body of Congress proposal, based on the work of a committee who worked in the last term, appears before the council are two classes, which are new ones, who were not participants at work, and the Piranha was involved in the work at a foreign committee at the end of the council and are coming back to do it now. I see no sign, at least not from the hand of my party, whose future is bright, that there cannot be a broad and good convergence on the matter. It is important to set policies, though relatively general, and, of course, they will always be in some way dependent on what happens in the world. I think it's important that the introduction of the motion be made to a certain statement that I would like to read and agree, by permission of the president, ▪ The government's standards for national security are the commitments of the United Nations Continental Convention and which guide the nation's baseline values, democracy and respect for national and international rights, human and human rights protection, the equality of all and sustainable development, disarmament and peaceful solution of issues. I think this statement covers the baselines that I think we all agree on, as it was so good in earlier conversation about the horrors of Paris. Otherwise, I can accept suggestions or criticism that have happened in the past. Councilmen today. Hv. paritaprevir Össur's Skarphéðinsson has made it clear in both talks and objections that we could make more of the catastrophe that the climate is for us. This provides a basis for the safety of Icelanders to say that climate impacts will not result from disaster. Despite the importance of Iceland's environmental and security concerns in the north, the climate is international and Iceland is not just in the north, but on the whole earth. Of course, the sea that surrounds the country, the health of the sea and the currents is a key to safety and Iceland's survival. So I can agree with this, hoping that somehow the committee's discussion will help us get better involved. I can also agree with what. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir, who thinks the safety and protection factor is a bit prominent in the document as it is presented. This may be explained to some extent because, of course, it is the highest. Minister of state with the help of his Ministry, who has prepared the motion and is in charge of the council. It is suggested that this is not a permanent implementation of national security policy to the whole future but that all kinds of meat will be added, as well as that in the discussion. Or I'll celebrate the development and look forward to the work of the Foreign Affairs Committee. I think there's a set here that we're both going to build well on and, like, example in practice, has shown that we can likely make peace over important issues that are relevant to everyone.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u57	A respectable president. I welcome this council proposal for national security policy for Iceland. It is long time to establish such a policy that ensures independence, sovereignty and immunity of Iceland's border, the safety of its citizens and the protection of society's governance and infrastructure, as it is said. The task is certainly big, but it is not insurmountable. In a changed world, we must take care of security more than we have. We are waking up to our new world and new demand for threats to us and to other countries. The Parliamentary Committee for Conventioning National Security Policy for Iceland, set up in the following issue of Congress adopted in September 2011, is widely applicable in its report. It discusses foreign policy, defense policy, and public security. In fact, the material is so extensive that it is difficult to fulfill in a brief talk. I'm just gonna kill on a few points. The Commission concluded that if national security was defined broadly, it would be a reason to examine the establishment of a special National Security Council, which looked to all these factors. It's an opinion that should be considered. The project is big, and it is clear that the various factors needed to be harmonized. A National Security Council or another member of a similar role could play a key role, but it would also have to define the lines of communication between the Council's Office, the Council's State Department, other committees, and the council as a whole. The Senate Committee on National Security did not specifically define priorities when we were faced with threats and dangers, but it defined three categories, which have now been revised. Then the State Marshal's office released an updated assessment of the threat of terrorism and other massive attacks this year. There the danger was divided into four categories, followed by a timely and positive change in the original ideas of the committee. First, there are dangers that take into account the management and the resources, the environment, or the accidents caused by increasing northern activities, the Internet threat, and the vandalism of society's infrastructure and natural disasters. Here's a good choice. Here are dangers that can cause great damage to our society and can be widespread and costly. A second category of organized crime, financial and economic security, food and food security, health and terrorism, which have been brought up here in another category, well in view of the latest events in Paris and what has happened before in our part of the world. A third category then presents a threat to military threat, which at the moment is considered unlikely to hit Iceland, but it would weigh the national sovereignty and independence. It is important that national security policy continues to be revised, criticized, and discussed as open and critical. We also need to weigh the sensitive balance between personal protection and research. We need to ask questions about how far we should go when it comes to personal espionage, privacy, etc. I would like to say that the British government has recently provided a bill that has authority to look at all the Internet sites that are visited by individuals who become Internet users or services to save such information for one year. It's gone very far in person's espionage. The argument behind that suggestion is that terrorism will be prevented in the country. Similarly, there must be authority available to law enforcement officials and other such individuals in order to carry out their duties. We must make sure that law enforcement officials have enough funds, tools, and tools to care for such tasks. There's a lot of work to be done. We must strengthen our surveillance and protection. We must also make sure premeditated sources of research are in place. We can no longer close our eyes to new ones and change landscapes around us. The safety of the city is a key factor. We must sharpen our public defense system, our response plans, and get information to the public if we face natural disasters or such. The responsibility of the media needs to be cut when it comes to communicating information to the public. This has been a broken pot. We see, for example, that private workers have often done better than the State Radio itself when it comes to sharing information about a disaster. When it comes to Iceland's defence policies, our main defenses will continue to be our defence agreement with the United States and Iceland's involvement in the Atlantic Alliance. In addition, Iceland continues to have an active share in the activities of NATO and continue to contribute to its common defences. This is a cause for rejoicing. We cannot stand by the power of imaginary neutrality in all matters. We must take a stand, make our voice sound, and participate. As a result, since the Middle East, there has been a great change in the security work of the United States, and now, as a result of an agreement with the United States in 2006, there is also a need for cooperation and survival. The Atlantic alliance has also changed. Today there are 28 Member States, 16 toward the end of the Cold War, and dozens of countries have agreed to cooperate with the alliance. Russia is now an active associate country, but it was previously defined as an enemy, although the situation in Ukraine had undeniably affected the last two years for the worse. Like the Internet threat, environment, terrorism, energy security, and the spread of mass destruction weapons, the Atlantic Union is increasingly looking at threats and risk factors, such as the Internet threat, the environmental climate, the energy security, and the spread of weapons of mass destruction, as indicated in a document by this synonym. We must also take an active look at such countries as Russia and the United States and other Arctic states when it comes to the affairs of the north, as the committee rightly points out. Such cooperation has never been more important than right now. It involves not only right but also environmental matters. In this country, it's important here and here, both in defense. The Schengen negotiation is closely related to security, and in a talk earlier today, I criticized its position of cooperation and lack of discussion about Schengen's future. This cooperation provides us with access to data requests for individuals who have violated laws in other countries, information that is important to us when it comes to fighting the law of every name called. However, the Schengen community has not had a shockline, and it is necessary to take a lot of discussion about its benefits and defects. That discussion must be balanced and open. On the whole, I think this is a good connotation proposal. I think her goals are good and her approach is good. The relevance of the individual joint in the proposal of the Committee or the order of risk factors can be debated. It is reasonable that they will be organized in the coming discussion. Global unrest has increased, as noted in the case of the day. paritaprevir Ármannsson, son of a year ago. Security issues are in the limelight, the global system has changed, and it is sufficient to point out the situation in Ukraine, where the sovereignty of that country was grossly disregarded and still exists in the European nation. What has happened in Syria and Iraq has had a direct effect on Western countries, and we cannot stand by and pretend that this is none of our business. Thus, it is absolutely necessary to take good care of this language. National security has to do with many different aspects, and we have a lot of work to do.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u58	V.E.G. President. I've observed some of this debate from a distance today, but it's been about a lot of interesting things like this proposal for Congress, but it contains a number of excellent factors, especially the first element mentioned as a focus of a new national security policy for Iceland that will be considered specifically for Iceland's environmental and safety interests in international cooperation and domestic services, environmental and security interests there. I have to say that, topv. President, in some respects I feel that this document and the debate over it do not reflect the world that is coming into existence before our last losses, and we are very strong to confirm in these last days in a tragic way. There I refer to the acts of terrorism in Paris, which were barbaric and all but scrutinizing words. Similarly, I have been shocked to hear the response of the officers of various states who are in our alliances, where I look to the French, I look to the Americans, I look at the recommendation of President Obamas of the United States who said that he was now riding on to humiliate the enemy, ◯degredrade Humš, and destroy him. Similarly, President Hollande of France has been talking about rooting out barbaric ides and walking between the bull and the head of the opponent. We've heard all this before. We heard a similar comment at the time from the mouth of President George Bush, who once spoke of the importance of the Western countries under the lead of the United States, that was his word, against -- he now did not speak of heretics, but against the opponents of the United States. I'm told that in the week he made this comment, more recruits are gathered in al-Qaeda sequences than ever, before or after. This is the context of the parts. Then we're discussing here a motion from the government based on a parapolitic agreement. There I refer to the aspect I mentioned here as the first on the general security issue in which we are suggested that we marry harder into these people's arms, into the NATO family with the Americans, among the French who immediately responded to the trouble with the hardened air raids in Syria, and nowhere to reduce the mismanagement of the Americans of the Yemen, who have been under their attack from Saudi Arabia now for several years, the so-called relief attacks that have killed far more people, innocent civilians, children, and innocent people ahead of years than were killed in Paris. This is the context we have to look into. Where are we going to locate ourselves in this world? Here, the second emphasis on the proposal to make Iceland's involvement with the Atlantic Community will remain a key factor in Iceland's defenses. First of all, I object that this will be done and referred to an arrangement that has already been established, where I am the first carrier to be established as a national law on our presence in NATO. I don't think we're gonna agree with this. On the one hand, I am very doubting how true and true this is about its continuing support, continuing to support Iceland's defenses. Is this a defense? What is that defense? I have often commented that in view of the changes that have taken place in that coalition and took place in the 1990's, we were confirmed at our birthday meeting in Washington 1999 and then again in Prague, where the emphasis was changed on the path of NATO, that instead of viewing an attack on one state, all would be attacked, as indicated by the basic covenant, that there was a threat to one state all of us. Then I ask: Who is most likely to be threatened in a cruel world of interests? Is it not the most attractive countries in the resources? I have made it clear that for that reason, it was more important to us than ever who are the dominant and what forces are ruling in the strongest military powers in NATO. Who's President of the United States? How aggressive is he? How greedy is it in other people's resources? Unfortunately, the threat of Obama has not been better than U.S. President George Bush in various ways. The arms trade to Saudi Arabia or that part of the world is more than in the past four years than in a few four years since World War II. It's just reality. This is reality. Then there is the possibility that humans can ask whether we are closer to war. We can also turn the question around and ask: Are we doing our part in bringing us closer to war? We do so by joining these nations, who are primarily defending their military interests and the interests of capital. The interests of wealth. They don't care about anything called human rights. Or don't they know that Saudi Arabia, probably after China, has more people killed in a barbaric way than anywhere else? But people focus on the ISIS villas that are rightly mentioned. But they're just friends. Then, as they often say in Iceland, "Tell me who you're associating with, and I'll tell you who you are." We are converging with these kingdoms and with these forces. Then it's a miserable talk about the non-communicative Iceland in a civil partnership in NATO. We are willing to join a military alliance and participate in sending young ones of other nations into the field, but we are not involved. Either the Icelanders are to set up an army and stay within the confines of this alliance or to resign from it. That's what we're supposed to do. Of course, we're supposed to get out of there. This makes our safety more secure. But the habit is strong. It is inconceivable even after the Americans became aware of horrible torture in Abu Ghraib Prison and even after the world watched that operation of illegal torture camps in Guantanamo, even after that it does not affect humans here. Nobody moves. That's why I say this second team, and actually the third team on the National Defense Convention, is something I'll never agree with. And the minimum requirement is that we shoot at the people to decide whether we will stay within the armed alliance of NATO. That's a minimum catch.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u59	Madam President. It's not surprising. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson is consistent with himself in the present time as a past and hard opponent of Iceland's involvement in the Atlantic Union. What's in my mind, though, is what's wrong. A senator wants us to secure the outside security of the country if he sees his dream that Iceland will walk out of the Atlantic Alliance. Hv. A senator speaks as if the Icelandic government were totally out of control at the scene of the Atlantic Union, on the direction of NATO at any given time. Of course, it's just like any other nonsense. Right away. A senator was serving as a minister of justice and, later, Minister of Internal Affairs in the government of Left Green and the United States, had a golden opportunity to mark his work and policy and the activities of the Atlantic Community. But he chose to accept the silent action of the Atlantic alliance against Libya when air raids were launched on Libya. So I ask myself, " Isn't it a question? ' A senator, since we are in the Atlantic Union, that we try to use our influence there, in contrast with that of others. A senator and his government did in the last term?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u60	V.E.G. President. First, one historical correction. I didn't sit back under the attack on Libia. I objected to them and explained it to the government. But how naive it is to imagine that while the shape of the Icelanders could have stopped the attacks on Libya, that would have been so. Of course, we do not know what to do. Or what did he say? Secretary of State on the decision at the end of July to provide green light for Kurdah's air raids? This was done at the meeting of NATO. We were there. We criticized a lot of the government, I did, and we made it a lot of people from the left movement a toil, that it had been bad. Of course, we realize that while we, an armyless nation within the walls of NATO, there we are, in effect, no good at all. We won't. True, in the stream of time, we have found ourselves in such a situation that we matter, as in the land - wide wars, it is true. But in this big corridor, it's the highest. The minister of the state of Gunnar Bragi Sveinsson, with all due respect to him, no effect. He is different from the fact that he can have language on a variety of subjects. In fact, I have criticized Ukraine for how hard he has gone there and in ways that I have not considered to be measured. That's true, it may matter, but the major mechanisms of this military machine are not powerful for Icelanders. They're not. If the senator imagines that the left movement ◯ green supply could have stopped the air raids on Libya at the time, I think it's a misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u61	Mr. President. This time we'll be able to distinguish Ögmundur once more and there's no particular news. Of course, Iceland has influence within the Atlantic Community wall. This is only an attempt to excuse the silent consent of the left-hand green to the 2011 lesbian air strike. In their anguish, members of Congress made the left green, including ministers in the United States and the left greens, suggest a conquistador a few weeks later, for the brother of the current chairman had made himself known from the left green because he realized what the left green had done.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u62	She's not here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u63	- I'm talking about Sverrir Jakobsson. [[Up front.]] No, I said that the brother of the current chairman of the left green had left the green. So he sat at the platoon council in the left green. In their anguish, members of the council made left green, including the mighty. paritaprevir The count of Jónasson, then minister, along with other councils of the left green ahead of the council decree that Iceland resign from NATO. It was to appease a conscience and backland of green people because they knew the blame, the shame of not having used their influence to prevent the air raids on Libya in 2011. Well, there's no way that this is going to work out. paritaprevir The Ögmundur of Jónasson.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u64	V.E.G. President. I kind of have a tongue about a tooth. [[The point is, it's not often.]] That we in the left movement, which for a long time, have had more than doubts about Iceland's presence in NATO, and believe it to be evil, and have spoken on the way at the council and outside the council, and have made many Congresss there, and now at the last, that there will be a national law on our being in NATO, that all of this is due to our failure to stop the use of NATO's air strike on Libya at its time. Does anyone believe this? [[Up front.]] In other words, left greens in Iceland did not stop the United States and the British and French, and all the military forces in the field of NATO, in war against Libya, that we are so terribly guilty of not preventing this, which we would naturally have done, that we are turning against NATO? I'm just going to leave this question in the air for the audience and for those who can read the chapter. [[Take it up. You're coming out of the way.]] I'm not turning out of anything. We are speaking fully of our doubts, and more than our doubts, our opposition to being in the Atlantic Alliance, NATO. I have often reasoned that I think in this changed world, with changing emphasis in NATO and in the modified world that our safety is threatened in the Atlantic Alliance.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u65	A respectable president. First, I want to thank you for this discussion, which has been about national security policy, and the interesting discussion here during the last few minutes and would have been relatively tempting to blend in with them, but in view of the good spirit that has existed here, I chose not to do so. Now the proposal for a foreign committee will be discussed, and there we will probably continue to discuss the matter. It was well discussed at last council, but it was not possible to complete it, as we have seen. In fact, some have taken place since that discussion, and this issue was last discussed, and unfortunately, the situation has been very much worse. It is quite remarkable what happened this morning that may describe how the world has evolved and what conditions have come to pass because for the first time in history, one European Union will apply a law in the EU covenant that other Member States are obliged to offer their assistance where that nation, the French in this case, believe that they have been attacked and that they have gone to war. I think that situation really describes the state of Europe and world affairs, the world's security. I believe it is important, though, that even though all the European states have become part of the war against ISIS, we are realistic about the threats and dangers we face as we must be prepared to protect people's freedom and privacy at the same time. We must find the balance between them, how we can secure the security of the citizens of this land that we are to protect, and at the same time, how we can guarantee their freedom and privacy in order to live their lives. It is good to find the solid basis for the suggestion, although there are differences in opinions about individual factors. I hope we can make it. paritaprevir J. Sigfússon's rock mask and the current president spoke so well in their speech that we get together through the back of the spine in this arrangement, although something is going to go through that we'd like to make a special report. Finally, I thank you for the discussion, and again I thank you. paritaprevir Valgerður's Bjarnadóttir for leading the work that actually laid the groundwork for the proposal here.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u66	A respectable president. The Constitution of the Government for the current 145th legislation is announced that five prime returns will be submitted to the conversion of authors, No. 73/1972, with subsequent changes. Three of the elements involved the introduction of the author-sized ships to the EEA Convention. It is first of all the bill of the implementation of European Parliament Directive and Council No. 77/2011 of September 27 of this year's review of no. 116/2006, the protection period of authors and certain related rights. Second, regarding the implementation of the Council of Europe and Council 2012/28, there is the principle of the practical use of orphans, submitted at the General Assembly as Council of No. 334. Third, the European Parliament's Regulation and Council Directive 2014/26, dated February 26 of this year, refers to the joint management of authors' unions and related rights and cross-border licences as a result of the use of music on the internal markets. Other bills are the bill for the specific change to Article 11. The author's album on the private use of a private document to request a solidarity company that will take account of the 6 mgr. 1 1. The law and then the bill that has been proposed to the Council as a 33rd Psalm. Fifth, there is a bill for the change in Book I of Author's Act on the Constitution of the Treaty, which is part of the overall review of the author's review. No. 333. A review of authors' laws of technical and social change has been under discussion at the General Assembly since 1991. In October 2009, the overall review of the modern author's law began. On that occasion, my model introduced to office, my boy. General senator, then supreme. Minister Katrín Jakobsdóttir, so called a guide for a review of authorial law. These are the words: 1st Dolphins need to be clear and easy to understand. 2. Emphasis is placed on a legal harmony with other Norwegian authors. 3. In view of its cultural and economic significance, respect for authorship has to be enhanced for society. 4. The rights of the court must be efficient and have a preemptive value. 5. The users should be supported by a legal advantage over an illegal type. 6th Dolphins should promote a balance between rights and users. 7. Guidance and instruction on authorability for rights and users. 8. Emphasis is placed on the importance of universal cooperation in the sector of authors. Initially, the overall review of the author's law was made in stages and was completed in 2012. But their plans did not work out, including Because of the lack of money, but the project has not had any special financial resources. Thus, I expect to work on the overall review of the writers of the Law will continue for some time, yet I would like to say that the work is doing so well, although, of course, it will still be discussed at the council. The first breakthrough of author - law review was shown in a bill that became the law of No. 93/2010 considering the library work environment, the use of visual and hearing impairments of the authors' products, and the inclusion of effective resources for dealing with author-bound fractures, including permission to establish a ban on access to web sites considered as the source of illegal distribution of author-based materials. The bill recommended here includes a second and third stage in the overall review of the author's law. The purpose of the bill is twofold. On the one hand, it is suggested that I chapter I of the author's song that discusses the rights of authors and authors. in line with the development of author-shaped states, particularly with respect to the Directive of the European Parliament and the Council of 2001/29/EC dated May 22, 2001, on the coordination of certain aspects of the authorship and related rights in the information community. However, the purpose of a review of the law is to legalize the changing arrangement of contract breaks. The terms of the contract mean that users of works which are protected by the author's rights that have made a deal with a author's body on the use of members or their members, e.g. with a copy of the photocopy, it is also permitted to use authors outside the organization. This arrangement facilitates the use of jobs for rightholders and users in situations where there are a lot of work to be used. For example, there is a photocopy for the teaching or transport of music on the radio. You should point your tail. Parliaments are required to consult Article I of the bill as a comparison between the requirements of current legislation and the changes that will occur if the bill becomes legal. This comparison should help. Parliaments to understand the subject of the bill and its effects. A respectable president. Now, I come to the individual branches of the bill. For Article 1. is so that the term copy generation gets a new definition. It is also suggested that the expression be used to make works available to the ◯ substantiate of the term. For 2 g. it shows when a work is legally published and what is considered a version of a work that has meaning for Part II. the chapter of the law on restrictions either legally published or published. What 3. The recommended dose is 3 and 4 mg. of 6. valid laws dealing with databases fall away. For Article 4. it confirms that things that are protected by design protection laws, No. 46/2001, can enjoy concomitant protection by authors. A respectable president. I'm going to say a few words about changing contracts and new contract regulations. The bill is suggested to legalize four new protocols. It is then suggested that the terms of a contract license be adopted for the access rights to use by users on the basis of a contract agreement. In the 5th. is a new law. It suggests that public archives and libraries will be given permission to digital copies of their collection and to make such copies available to the public, e.g. on the world web, to meet the terms of a contract agreement. About 6. it discusses the reimbursement of art in general educational material regarding criticism and scientific discussion. This law involves a substantial change and an expansion of the contract from the current law. Making the contract makes it possible for the user to obtain a warrant, e.g. as a result of a reimbursement of many works in one way, such as the publication of encyclopedias. The authority to negotiate by Article 6. Among other things, the bill is designed to solve long - term issues between museums and Aspects for the release of archives on the website. I'll make it to 8. The provision for publication is intended to replace the agreement on photocopies found in Article 15. a in current legislation than with a broader set of values, which now includes copies of publications for use within institutions, organizations and enterprises due to their own activities, including audio and television recordings. In the 9th. is a new law. It is suggested that government agencies can negotiate permission to produce copies of the audio and broadcasts and TV programs for use in the blind, in sight, and in the deaf. In the 10th. will be discussed on the broadcast of publications on the radio because of another public transport that does not involve the exchange of materials. In 1 1. is covered on audio and television broadcasts about cable systems. 12th degree. is a new law. It suggests that radio stations can negotiate permission for remake of works from their collection. The purpose of the directive is to facilitate the implementation of radio stations to the state of the state when access is granted to previously distributed materials from their collection, e.g. by reservations, by making it available online or for reimbursement. From a cultural point of view, I consider it important to reinvest the older material of radio networks, both the state radio and special radio stations. I want to draw special attention to the 2nd party. 14th par. There is a new law. It is suggested that a general authority be agreed on a license to use for work in designated, well-defined cases. The development of the network and its new mediuming options make it clear that more and more cases may be involved where simple means are needed to negotiate widespread usage, e.g. Within collections due to the preservation and decoupling of the culture without the need to be legalized. 14th degree. b The bill is a measure of the rights to be satisfied with the use of their actions on the basis of a contract agreement. 14th degree. c is a new declaration of reconciliation if the next non-employment contract is passed. Conspiracy must be required for the specific reconciliation that is designated by the minister. 15, 16, 18, 20, 21, 23, and 26. includes updated references between authors' rules based on other changes under the bill. In the 17th. The bill is excommunication 45. g. a in the law. He will be replaced with a reference to 3 mgr. 45. g. The law to the 23rd. a As suggested, it will be modified by Article 11. The bill. Twenty-two. The bill includes the removal of the 53rd str. a in the law and instead of a new 4 mg. Twenty-six. a in the law, compare with section 4. 14th par. The bill. In par. 24th. The bill is submitted to the conversion of 57th par. Authorization of the decision-making committees in authoritarian cases in agreement with other changes resulting from the bill, including the provision of the Council of the Conspiracy Committee in Article 14. c The bill. Now I'm following the discussion of a review of a 59th exposé warrant. a in the Authors' Act. Twenty-fiveth. The bill tells us that there are two changes in the 59th grade. a in the Authors' Act. One is an updated wording in 1st. Fifty-niner. a with respect to other changes included in this bill. However, a 2 mg change is recommended. Fifty-niner. a to provide services in the sense of electronic and other electronic services legislation, No. 30/2002, an option to protect your interests in the pre-commission procedure should be taken as appropriate. For explanation, the term service servant is applied to the person representing the alleged non-statutory distribution of the author's product and closure of Internet access sites. After loading law No. 93/2010, who accepted the authority to require an international ban, such as telecommunications companies, have suggested that the services of services are not sufficiently cared for by a judicial hearing requiring a ban on the central communication company media data from a particular website. The basic premise for such a third party to care for their interests in a legal matter is to inform him of its decision and decision. If he receives an announcement of an initial legal hearing directed toward a service he provides, he may make an informed decision to take his rights according to Article 14. track No. 31/1990 or by requesting an average verifying of a ban on the courts, compare Article 20. Treated Privately, No. 91/1191. It should be noted, however, that often an answer to a Web site is not available or where to find it, so it is not possible to meet the required notifications. Therefore, the arrangement for action is set out according to the procedure it will take. As attributed to chapter V in general comment on the bill, comments were made in the consultation process of the bill from composer organizations and the text authors of the law of the intermediate service that came up by law No. 93/2010 would have been a challenge to the rights and would have specifically referred to the court's treatment in the city of Reykjavík. This discussion has made me think about it, and I have previously mentioned it at the Hall of Congress, whether there is reason to do so. The General Department of Education and Education Committee will take a special look at the treatment of this bill and, in consultation with the State Department, whether or not there is any reason to legalise a direct access to a local court has to rush treatment in such cases without first seeking a member of the county. In this regard, I would like to justify the belief that it should be an assignment of courts to measure access to websites considered the source of illegal distribution of fossil-based materials. It is at least very thought that some type of censorship or closing on the Internet is the work of the administrative institutions. However, it should be kept in mind that time is important if there is distribution of illegal material. If this is to be the case, then the changes I recommend must be made. A top-of-the-art Board of Education. It must be ensured that the verbal and verbal treatments are sufficient but that all interests are guaranteed. Hence, it is suggested that the interests of those who are servants and that they have information about the situation. A respectable president. As I mentioned earlier in my speech, this bill is the product of a second and third phase of the overall review of an author's law, which has become urgent because of the rapid development of technology and society. It also counts that there will be a follow-up for development in neighboring countries of Iceland. A detailed paper with the bill will help you to analyze each paragraph of the subject and the points that I have covered in my speech. Then I continue to remind you again of the follow-up with the bill, which compares the laws of current law with the changes included in the bill. After that, I suggest that the bill be after this 1st. Pointed to why. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u67	A respectable president. I want to start by thanking the highest. Minister for his history. I'd like to make some comments. First of all, like the highest. A minister mentioned, is being in line with the Authoric Code of the Norse Authors. However, I immediately see that chapter 1 is actually just a direct translation of Swedish authors. Therefore, I would like to know why Swedish authors were selected and what status the Swedish Authorship Act has in the Icelandic court, especially under the guidance of the development of this law, or minister. Why the Swedish Authorship? Why not Finnish Authorage? They're also Norwegian. They are considerably more progressive than Swedish people. So I'd like to call attention to the 2001 European Union Directive, InfoSoc Directive, as it is called in English, that it is being revised. I'd like to know if it's the highest. Ministers know what work is taking place there and why it is being brought to us closer to the 2001 directive when President Juncker, the European Commission, has already said he intends to revise the authorly and consistently in the European Union. I'd also like to know if it's 9. is in accordance with the Marrakesh Convention which should ensure the bioavailability of the blind, visually impaired and readable material, or whether further introduction of the Marrakesh Convention is required. Let's start with this.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u68	A respectable president. Thank you. A senator for the questions she has directed to me. I would like to state that as known as the Minister doesn't make laws, as was said. Of course, it's the council that agrees with the law. It's only a bill. With regard to role models, it is quite true. A senator who looks at the waters of this field is a highly secular law in the nobility and the Norse Authorage. I refer, among other things, to consideration 5th paragraph. which is on page 17 of the bill, which discusses a law allowing a contract license, which is the key element in this law. It says, by permission of the president: THE corresponding authority is proposed to be recorded in other Norwegian writers' laws, but its regulations are miscommunicative. This suggests that there will be a Finnish, Norwegian, and Swedish role model guided by the fact that parties have room to negotiate on the use of tasks. Of course, you can find in the bill places where you apply for Swedish legislatures. Other locations of Finnish and Norwegian are available, but these are the three countries that we have seen in particular. The main purpose, as indicated in my talk, is to coordinate Icelandic with what happens in the northern countries. With regard to this review, like cognition. A senator declared, at the scene of the European Union, that there is an unstupulous trend in this. That's how it's gonna be here. We will again and again see these matters coming in some way because the technological changes that will require us to be very alert to the changes in the circle laws. Regarding Article 9. I don't want to state exactly how well it reaches the purpose of the Marrakesh Treaty, and I can't declare anything about his condition. [[The president calls.]] They are looking for ways to ensure the best of the rights of those who are blind, blind, blind, or deaf.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u69	A respectable president. I thank the Minister for a good answer. However, I give a question mark to the degree to which a direct translation is made in the current bill for authorial legislation in Swedish legislation. I find it strange that the Ministry can't create and localize these lyrics to fit in Icelandic lyrics. Why don't we all interpret the Swedish law? It would save the council a lot of time if we could just do it. Second, it is not so that author laws are constantly being examined. This happens once every 20 years. It is urgent that we now take place in the European Union. I think it's very important that we keep pace with that, since we're just a small island north of the Atlantic. We're part of a much larger context. I make a comment to what I remember is at 25. The need for prompt treatment of excommunications. I'd like to know if it's the highest. Ministers believe it is in harmony with a constitution. This is a censorship. I think it's very serious to turn it into a law. I'd like to know what the minister's position is about, especially if this is in harmony with a constitution and if the rights of expression and if this is a practical solution to the problems that authors face when it comes to getting paid for their work and being taught by their work and receiving the rights of their authors.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u70	A respectable president. First of all, translations or references to the Norwegian language are correct. You're right again. A senator that we are a part of a larger context and is being made to ensure that the Icelandic court calls it the Biblical term. Therefore, places in this legislation can be found using Norwegian legislation. About what question? The senator, about 25. The bill, I think there's some misunderstanding here. They are not making the changes from the laws that are already in effect, which are involved in the use of regulations or measures that are already laid out by the county. The changes mentioned here are that the service servant, the candidate, should be informed if such closures are to be used in order to ensure the correct safety of the individual. They're going further in that direction as a boy. A senator speaks of, i.e. ensuring that those who are closed after they have made sure that they can contact the individual for protection. On the other hand, I gave my speech that I thought it was right for the committee to consider whether the government should change from the fact that this authority is in the county's office to go directly to the courts, including the courts. with regard to the viewpoints as strong as ever. A senator spoke. I think there was some misunderstanding in this regard. These changes are not being made, but I am suggesting that men consider that such authority has been taken to the courts, it is not the authority to do so. On the other hand, it must be ensured that this can be done quickly, quickly getting the decision of the court, and not waiting for it for long, since the damage is done in the case of an illegal distribution of materials, which is the fossil record.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u71	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Minister on Level 1. The bill. If I may read it, with the permission of a president: With the limitations of these laws, author has the exclusive right to make copies of his work and to make it available to the public in its original or modified form, into translation or other adjustments, to another type of literary or list, or with another technology. Each single type is considered to be a direct or indirect, temporary or permanent type of a piece of pain, whole or part of it, by any means and in any form. What I'm worried about is asking the highest. A minister to see if he is not concerned about making a whole generation of youths involved in this crime. In fact, there is something called Remix rout, which is the right to reconstitute, to witness a job, to ridicule at work. This is a way that young people use today to communicate on the Internet, express their opinions, and use what is happening in the community by mixing and putting together. This is common. I find this law so strange, i.e. ... likeI getit. I'm asking the highest. Minister if he agrees with this and if I understand correctly that this is being banned. Now I'm talking about people who are using this and they can't pay for it, they don't make any money on it. It's just a form of expression.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u72	A respectable president. I don't really trust myself in the accurate interpretation of it as well as anyone. A senator was asking about it. This is just one of the matters that need to be discussed on the committee and that call for deep discussion. The primary purpose is to ensure that the rights of those who have created and owned a creative act are protected. For this reason, there are powerful reasons, both when it comes to humans'creating them and also the evidence that authors have the exact same rules, thinking, and approach as they do about human property in general. What I'd be worried about, if we were to indulge, or relax in, authoritarianly when it comes to the distribution of hard work on the Internet, which is overcrowded, if a discount was taken off, would soon happen that artists who had their work and goods would be able to collect from that income would increasingly need to consult the government's mercy when it came to their arrival. If the basis for the revenue disappears because it has become a dominant cool so that people can take the rights of other people and use them, I think we need to worry about that. The other, ridicule, ridicule, ridicule, or talk about them, is just part of the public discussion. However, there must be rules that apply to the penalties. It is not possible to give a discount on human property in this respect.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u73	A respectable president. I'd just like to celebrate if it's the best. A minister will be moderate in these matters and will consider some balance in this matter. Of course, it is necessary to think of the penitentiary so that those who create the project get money for their work. Also, the freedom of expression must not be restricted. What I especially worry about is if this has cultural effects, i.e. if people are no longer able to communicate in the form available in the age of information and technology. We must be able to do what is happening in our environment, using what is available and in our culture, what we love and want to share.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u74	A respectable president. That's what I'm talking about. At the end of his talk, what we love and want to share - we must respect the property rights of those who created the things we love and love. They need to be paid for. I can see what it's all about. A senator is up here. I understand exactly where this discussion is being discussed. You're right. You need to find the lines that need to be lying there. The important thing is that we agree that creations are protected like other property rights. If we can agree on that, I think that humans can work from that point of view and from that point of view toward making sure that there is no too tight for humans to express themselves. I think these two things should just go together, like other things for the Internet, i.e. the rights and rights of others to express or express their rights or rights. I think you should be able to find this line. Again: The purpose, or purpose, is to look to the countries to which we live and work in great cooperation with, for example, regarding the publication of art, books, and music, and so forth, and look especially to other northern nations. I think it would be wise for us to have our legislation in good shape with the legislation that is in other parts of the North.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u75	A respectable president. A review of writers' laws and secondary rights of authors is timely, and one of the cornerstones of the political organizations I belong to, Pirata. You can see a legal example of laws that were created at the time in a particular bed to protect a particular industry. It's a law we've inherited since our old age and we need to reevaluate the bases on which they live. After all, there are two types of thoughts that can be handled within the family circle. On the one hand, it is the moral right of the authors to be taught by their work and the right to control the first display of their work. It's moral right. In French it is known as '-droit moral,' and in English as'sort'rights. There is a philosophical basis behind which, at the time of the author's birth, is presented in a European suspected discussion by the restoration and enlightenment of the 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries. That each one is the author of his word and always becomes the author of his word is a philosophical ideal for time and space, words and customs, and something that can never be taken away from anyone. No one can take away the words from you. That's the foundation of freedom of expression. This is the foundation of all the authors, and the part of the authors I want to protect; the moral rights of the authors to be taught in their work. The rights are not delivered, but the same cannot be said of the secondary rights of the author. Another player here is economic rights guaranteed by the secondary rights of the author, author-bound. These secondary rights are what is known as the English form of "temptusright" which may be called in the Icelandic distribution dish or copy rights. These secondary rights of the authors are numerous; exposé rights, transfer court, medium right, version right. This is what is actually called a right to court. All of them in common should be intertwined with some kind of economic gain. Thus, it is an economic right which grants rights to the rights of these special rights patents to move, distribute, publish, or publish or publish specific tasks according to authors' agreement. It is not an author's right in the moral sense that the basic concept of authorhood is based, but can be traced back to the Middle Ages, to the city of London, where patents were issued to print books. In time, it was intertwined with the moral rights of authorial rights, which have produced the question of moral and economic rights, and it is difficult to discern the difference between what is what. So capital law has many privileges in Icelandic law, ranging from those underprivileged to being taught by their work and its secondary rights. With the permission of the President, I would like to read from the bill's report on the main purpose and purpose of revising authorships: - Uh-huh. - Uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh-uh. Dolphins need to be clear and easy to understand. 2. Emphasis is placed on a legal harmony with other Norwegian authors. 3. In view of its cultural and economic significance, respect for authorship has to be enhanced for society. 4. The rights of the court must be efficient and preventative. 5. The users should be supported by a legal advantage over an illegal type. 6th Dolphins should promote a balance between rights and users. 7. The instructions and training of the authors should be stressed for the competent authorities as well as for the users. 8. Emphasis is placed on the importance of universal cooperation in the sector of authors. There is no mention of authors' rights or rights. It says that authors should promote a balance between rights and users and that guidelines and education need to be typed for rights as well as for users. A respectable president. Justice is not necessarily the author. Some authors are justifiably, but not all courts are authors. To a greater extent, authors hand out the economic rights they have, to publish, distribute, and publish. That is what we call rights and is one of the secondary rights of writers. The entitlement of the Court is more often than a publishing company or larger units. This is the part of the author song I'm putting on question marks. Authors are to serve the interests of authors and to strengthen them in their relationship with the executives of the publishing rights and distribution rights. The court has been given too much importance, and it is too thoroughly mixed with the author's weight by putting it into the author's law. In this area, we often differ from other interest groups, and by not explaining it properly, we make the authors of bear favors. By not placing enough clear boundaries between these rights, we weaken the position of the authors and strengthen the position of strong publishing companies, distribution agents who have some rights that are either purchased or that authors have renounced by poor contracts. In 2014 a European Commission report was published after a discussion with the general public opinion on copy rights, or in English. There, authors and legalists were classed, not in the same group, but in each group. Ten o'clock. a man responded to the Commission's questionnaire on his position on this case, of which over half were ordinary people, so-called legal users. What was very strange about the answers was that users and authors agreed on a number of things, but justice and publishers were more often against users and writers than you would expect. The questions about whether the authors get their share of the cake were the users and the author agree that they did not. The authors complained about a bad contract, since the rights uprooted them so that authors would find it difficult to find out what was normal in the market. It was noted that new authors especially find it difficult to get paid for their jobs. On the other hand, the courts, the publishing companies, the body members, and the other intermediate groups felt that authors could do just right, that authors would get enough for them, that authors and courts were in good relations, and that equality was being guarded. Users agreeed with authors. Users want to pay for the use of art, for experience, reading, and hearing. However, they are not prepared to pay unfair middlemen to give their authors a dollar in return. The bill on this subject would weaken the position of authors if it was currently approved. I'd like to explain further, and that's why I need to explain the meaning of the word "contraction." It has been called the Scandinavian Academy, where it was first adopted in the Northern States. Whether the artist is a member of this body or not, the contract is that one body of retail organizations has the right to collect fees for the transport of a particular kind of work. In order to qualify for contracts, the body of the body of the body needs recognition from the Ministry, and they have a market share in their special collection. I'm putting a question mark on that because of freedom of society, especially since it's written by authors and that all writers are automatically members of these body groups unless they choose to resign from them. Even so, the body has the right to collect for their work. In fact, it is being given to certain congregating organizations the right to get paid for other people's work, even the work of dead people, that doesn't matter. This is actually making sure that some organization that is insensible in its nature gets the right to collect money. They're a body of collectrs. Also, I give a question mark on whether this arrangement will be out of date after a few years in which Iceland will inevitably introduce the 2014 European Commission directive for a collected body of bodies, by permission of the President, on the basis of the laws of the Relations Association. It includes the prohibition against limiting competition in the body of retail organisations. The current bill is, in fact, limiting competition with the body of retail organisations, allowing only one body of collectees to take money for transporting other people under one form of art. Those with Photos get to collect for all the uses of any kind, but there is no competition. I think it's time for me to revise authorship. It's time to separate all these different rights, and it's time to bring some of it into a special law. The law on a judicial body is absolutely entitled to it. It may well be that a contract license is practical for a country like Iceland that is small and limited. However, it is important that authors have the primary interest in authors. I believe it is more likely to create a law on contracts in a special body of body trust laws and that it belongs, not in writers' law, but in special contracts or contract contracts. By enforcing a contract in this convention into authorship law, the rights of body trust, rights, and authors are being mixed together. There's a line to be explained. It is a major problem today that authors do not have a clear and strong voice, since authors' interests and rights do not always go together, let alone the interests of collected organizations and authors. Pirats and I are always ready to have a civil conversation with a minister in addition to authors and rights on this important matter. My team has a lot of expertise and interest in these matters, and I'm here talking about Porta's international movement, which is now working to reevaluate the European authorial law. We do not have extreme views. Rather, we try to be realistic, but the reality is one of the problems that have been severed in authorial policies in the changing world. I'm offering ministers and stakeholders here for a good and perfunctory conversation about real realistic policy in the category.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u76	President. Thank you. A senator's speech. I wanted to say something about 5. Article 6 of the publication The European Court of Auditors, published by Jehovah's Witnesses and the European Parliament, published by Jehovah's Witnesses. But then it is proper to state what is presented in a consideration of 5. ... withauthority of the President's permission: ▪ The authors of the non-contracted contract license have the same right to the approval of the organisation as those who have granted a contract offer to represent them and can also demand that the organization be paid directly to themselves, dr. 1 1. The bill.How's it going? Of course, they can also use resources to prevent the release, but such measures need to be taken. So it is not quite that an individual organization has somehow been handed over to the author's rights contract. It is a simple thing to speak of a specific example in which the contract agreement is applicable and is therefore not obliged to be included in such organizations, on the contrary. As explained in the article, people can remain out of the organization. On the other hand, if they do not want this publication to be published, they will be assured that they will be paid for it and as well as that if they do not want it to be published, take action to prevent the release. But they must take the initiative.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u77	A respectable president. It's not exactly about release, it's about getting paid. If the law on contracts enters the Author's law, it does not mean that we are in the interest of authors, since it really is a deal. If we look at contracts and collect organizations as authors of a union, we need to create a special law on this. Another thing is, even if people can resign, what do you say? [[Up front.]] Yeah, but they need to be made up of specifically, so it's an active deal permit. Once specific rights have been passed to a certain court or body members to sign a contract, this applies to all the books published. In order for a writer to not be a part of the organization, he has to make a special statement, so he has to sign a contract. It does, and that's the problem. The fact that someone else can negotiate on your behalf and even if you can get paid is the question that you go into a certain form, which is the problem. It's just a question of it. Yeah, great. They can be made out of, you can stand outside, you can get paid somehow different. However, granting a pass of contracts is actually a permit to take money for other people's jobs and later to distribute it to some body members of the body. If so, I would like it to be done in the most transparent, safe, democratic way possible by the access of writers, by the access of the people who are to be paid. It has to be done and in my opinion it has to be guaranteed by a special body of collectrs.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u78	A respectable president. I'd like to reiterate what's being discussed about 5. g., by permission of a respectable president: ▪ The authors of the non-contracted contract license have the same right to the approval of the organisation as those who have granted a contract offer to represent them and can also demand that the organization be paid directly to themselves, dr. 1 1. The bill.How's it going? Then I'd also like to draw attention to the consideration of Article 5. is shown by permission of a respectable president: If the parties fail to agree on the basis of the provisional agreement, they can seek treatment for reconciliation. In other words, I think this is how it's done that it should be for the benefit of everyone. I reiterate that it does not require that men be within such organizations. But it is absolutely true that when they stand outside, such a deal is made, they will be paid. Of course, they can cancel their payment, but they can also respond and resist the publication, but they must take the initiative in doing so themselves. It's not that everyone's under orders. In my opinion, men have full space not only to refuse payment if they want to or to respond if the project is to be published. The important thing is that since this is also a distinct phenomenon, i.e. The contract license, based on the corresponding requirements and the Norwegian rights, I think people can be reasonably certain that this is a donation; for those who have discussed this in the consultation process that it is in some way a weakness of the author's position.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u79	A respectable president. I'd like to make a decision that the contract is not about whether anyone is allowed to decide if anything is published. This is about the fact that when a work is published and there are some fees that can be collected, the body can collect the fees despite a person's being outside the organization. [[Up front.]] Then the organization will pay it out. In order not to be a member of the body organization, they need to be exonerated. [[Up front.]] Yes, that's the point of making contract plans, that's what it's all about, that they're doing all the work that's in a special art form. It's what the contract permits is about, and that's what I'm putting on question signs. That's why I want a contract license to go to a special body of collecters, simply because I don't feel it belongs necessarily in author law. Of course, I think writers should play along. It's not like it's either a ball, it's an eight. But I want writers' laws to revolve around the interests of authors, and then we can create other laws that are involved in the interests of retail companies or the duties of collaborators and how everything should take place in their lives. I think it's a lot more natural than me to be mixing it up once more, one more rights, another leave in the Author's law, instead of strengthening authors' status, instead of strengthening their right to do what they do if no one gives it away, even if they later give up their rights. Dolphins are crazy about the present arrangement because we are always adding instead of separating things and doing them well.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u80	A respectable president. The Constitution of the Government for the current 145th legislation is announced that five prime returns will be submitted to the change of Authors No. 73/1972, with subsequent adjustments, as mentioned in the discussion of the 333th matter. Three of these primary indicators are related to the implementation of a European Parliament Directive and the 2012/28/EU Council of 2012 on certain authorised applications for orphans. The objective of the bill is to implement the European Parliament's Directive and Council 2012/28/EU for the specific authorised use of orphans in the EEA Convention with the decision of the European Committee No. 29/2015, of 25 February 2015, of the change in XVII. Annex to the EEA Convention on May 2, 1992, shall be included in the Convention Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council No. 2012/28/EU from 25 October 2012 on specific authorised use of orphans. Foreign Minister has proposed a resolution to the 144th Parliament for the confirmation of the decision of the joint EEA no. 29/2015 on the change in XVII. Annex (Multibility) to the EEA Convention. The implementation of the directive was to be completed by August 6, 2015. The Icelandic government has already received a warning from the EFTA Institute of Taxism as a result of neglect in its introduction within the specified period of time, No. 76946, letter dated October 1st, 2015. A respectable president. For example, cultural institutions that preserve Europe's cultural heritage are in the confusion of the stratosphere of their collections to preserve and make them available online. Much of what is found in cultural institutions depends on the rights of authors. To produce digital copies of a work protected by author - law, either a warrant for rightholders or a special exception to authors. For jobs considered orphans, i.e. work that is widely used but where authors or other rights are not known or known, it is not known where to find them, it is not possible to consult the relevant source for spelling and making them accessible. The directive is designed to solve this problem facing the cultural institutions of many Europeans in order to ensure that Europe's culture is not a digital waste. In order to achieve that goal, the directive allows certain cultural institutions to use a project without a warrant, if after a thorough search, they conclude that they are orphans. Section 12. Authorized songs allow museums to do copies of works that are in their collection of use in their own activities and to loan such copies in part without special rights approval. There is no provision for authors of sources that provide public media services to make copies of works found in their museums and/or make them accessible. In Congress No. 702, which will be submitted later and previously explained in advance, is proposed to take up a specific contract form. It's in the 333rd case, a respectable president, so it's being conducted, a special arrangement for museums that will fit into Article 12. which would be 12. (b) According to Article 5, what must we do to survive the end of Christ's Thousand Year Reign? the bill that was discussed here some time ago. They will be authorized to make copies of their publications in their collection and make them accessible to the public if there is a contract agreement with them by a local legal body. If such a contract is available, the warrant includes all the works that fall under it, as well as the actions of non - members of the legal organisation, such as the 14th chapter. that bill. If a bill in Article 333 is met, this law will allow such collections to produce digital copies and make it available, e.g. On the Internet, according to the terms of the contract contract. Similarly, it is in the bill to suggest that a law of agreement that would become a new 23rd. ................... the bill that allows radio stations to reimburse activities from their collection and also to make them accessible to the public, including in that each one can approach the work at the place and hour that he himself chooses, if a contract is made to that city's rightful organization. The directive would ensure that if a radio agency had a contract, the Agency could use a piece of work in its collection, which would have been considered to be its own product and had previously been sent out by that institution, whether the rights of the task were members of the rightful bodies of the rightful organisations in which they were living in such a contract or not, as Article 14. The same bill. A respectable president. Definition of what is considered an orphan's job: 1st. a-arms 1. The bill provides the definition of the concept of an orphaned task written in written languages, audiographs, hieroglyphics, or films, in which no judge has been found despite a thorough search. B-jords 1st. The bill is the authority of public libraries, educational institutions, museums, archives, and responsored films and audiographs, along with institutions that provide public media services for the use of orphans. The first preamble of the Directive makes it clear that these are the institutions that are dealing with the European cultural scale for building digital collections in Europe. A respectable president. Then I'll go back to doing what the bill does. First, the bill includes works published in the form of books, magazines, newspapers, or other written languages. Second, the bill includes recordings and films as well as audio recordings that have been published or have been broadcast. The bill takes only action belonging to the organisations authorised for the use of orphans, i.e. An agency that is authorized solely to use a piece according to the bill found in its collection options. The bill also includes acts or related rights, which are part of an orphan's work, either inserted, e.g. Drawing in a book, or as an unbreakable part of a job, e.g. The musician's artist's performance for a piece of work. A respectable president. The concept of a thorough search: The prerequisite for the use of orphans is that a thorough search for right heads has been performed before the work is used, as c- team 1. based on Article 3. The order. The directive obligates those institutions that carry out detailed search and use orphans to maintain a record of the search and use as well as information on the position of orphans and contact details of the local organisation. As with 5 mg, documented information should be sent to law-made governments in the Member State. Section 3. The order. They should also be made up of a central European database to be expelled by the internal competent authority in accordance with Regulation No. 386/2012, which should be available to the public, as per 6 mg. Section 3. The order. The purpose of the central database is to prevent double action in the search of justice as well as to help right heads and others to find out what to do as an orphan. A respectable president. On the basis of permission to dispose of orphans. Two. b-joins 1. The bill is authorized to use orphans by making copies of them in order to place them in digital shapes, make them available, and record, classes, preserve, and repair them. It is then permitted to make them accessible to the public in that each person can gain access to the work at the place and at the right time. However, there is no other way to make tasks accessible, e.g. by radioing them. Use on the basis of the directive is only allowed if they are due to the Agency's objectives regarding their role in the public service. It should be noted that in the bill of the 333th Conference, which has been previously noted, the recording of a common contract agreement is expected to allow an organisation of rights and users to make a contract for the application of work on a specific and well defined field when a contract permit is permitted, and it is essential that the use of it be possible. Then, in the same bill, we expect access to museums falling below 1.mg. Section 12. in authors' songs to produce copies of printed works in their collection, making them accessible to the above conditions. Together, the source of this account can be used for the use of orphaned jobs and a warrant planned for the use of other initiatives, which are still dependent on the author's rights, with the passed license, to establish their collection on digital form and make it available to the public. A respectable president. At the end of works considered orphans: At any time, a righteous act can reverse the position of fatherless work in their rights. 3 mg. a-arms 1. The bill shows that no more works are considered orphans and that the use of works is no longer allowed without approval if it submits to the agency that uses the task. Court rulers will also be able to send a requirement for their right to work through the central OHIM database, which continues to send the reports of the Court's institutions to the institutions that are using the project along with the agency that carried out the original precise search. Copyright That an orphan has been used correctly before use, as 3 mgr. a-arms 1. The bill. A respectable president. The bill I recommend here is an important factor in creating a legal basis for the work ahead of us in public security and media institutions in putting the cultural element on digital form and making it available to the public. For further explanation of the bill, I refer to a series of articles and comments to the unique regulations of the bill. So I have completed my history on the matter of Congress No. 334. After saying this, I suggest that the bill be followed by this discussion. General and Education Committee.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u81	A respectable president. I'd like to ask the highest. Each minister should conduct a national patrol with this and whether or not something has been looked forward to in Britain. Now I know that there is a special office that can be arranged when looking for the right heads of orphans and if it reminds me, only 500 requests have been received in the past year. I'd like to know what the advantage of a minister is that this special law will have, if anyone. Who will supervise this operation?
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u82	A respectable president. Of course, the benefits are the one involved in this bill, to make sure that there are no gaps in transporting Europe's culture into a digital form. As for the surveillance, I just want to reiterate what I said in my speech earlier, that there is a requirement for a thorough search for correct heads before the work is used. So I now grab down here into the bill, by permission of the President: The directive obligates the organisations that carry out detailed search and who use orphans'work to keep a record of the search ~ - first, it is that there is a record of the search - ◯ and use, as well as information on the position of orphans and contact details about the institution. [...] As with 5 mg, documented information should be sent to law-made governments in the Member State. Section 3. The order. They should also be made up of a central European database, which should be fired by the internal market conformity occlusions, and that basis should be available to the public, as per 6 mg. Section 3. The order. The purpose of this central database is to prevent double action as well as to help rights and others find information about jobs that are considered orphans. I believe that by means of this arrangement it is certain that those who have jobs have access, and that if they can monitor whether jobs are owned by them are considered orphans, and that they will recognize them and be paid if the work is published and they earn money, they can act on it. It will also be carried out on a detailed registry, carefully reviewing how the search has been conducted and until such information was obtained by the competent authorities. Together, I believe that the rights of everyone on this matter are being taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u83	A respectable president. Thank you for the answer from the highest. Minister. Actually, I didn't find it clear who should supervise this procedure. Will be made up of an institution to handle this, for example. In Britain? Similarly, in a thorough search, I assume that this term refers to the term "popularyance" (e.g., in English of the directive). If I don't forget, it's not exactly a unit on what that means, how much search must take place before we can talk about a thorough search. When will a careful search be made? There really is a bit of a questionable concept, in my opinion, although it is a natural thing to keep a record of this and put in a central database. I'm not going to put anything into it myself. It's a natural European directive that we have to implement, so I will do it with joy. On the other hand, I would like to hear from a minister, away from the fact that some institutions in the country need some reports on how much was searched, who is in charge of the observation at home.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u84	A respectable president. This is explained by some of the articles in the bill that it is expected to record information about the search to be sent to law - abiding governments in the same state. [[Up front.]] For example, if any work that is considered an orphan is intended, a thorough search should be carried out, and a record should be held, and it should then be reported to the local government so that it will go to a database as prescribed in the directive. [[Up front.]] I therefore believe that there is sufficient security to ensure that those with the author's condition will have the opportunity to respond to the author's knowledge of this database. In the case of a new task, which then reveals that an author and author submits to the writer's right to reform. I believe this is an improvement because the purpose is to provide museums, i.e. those dealing with the cultural resources of Europe, a better opportunity to ensure that these cultures are placed in digital shape. The dangers that may arise, the lack of success, and the actions considered to be orphans are failing in the way described here. Of course, this can never be ruled out, but the very least has been established that a writer who is responsible for considering an orphan's actions will respond. As soon as the author shows up, the project is no longer orphaned, and it has rules that apply to the author's weight in general. I believe in the bill there can never be any danger to the writers or to those who have the right. This would include the basic idea of making sure that Europe's collections and those with our cultural figure can transfer it to digital form so that it will make the best use of all the peoples of the continent. [[The president calls.]]
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u85	A respectable president. I'd like to start by celebrating that we're finally introducing this directive from the European Union, about orphans. Just like it says in 1st. He'll be on the 12th floor. current author song, 12 g. c, i.e. that by an orphan's work, there are works written in written languages, in recordings, in recordings, or in films that have not been found despite careful search by the court. The Bible does not necessarily belong to the work. I think it's very important that we show up. According to a joint European understanding of the authorship or what we really are, the entitlement may be someone other than the author. Although we know who the author is, we do not necessarily have the right to publish or distribute the work. So this is really not adding the rights of authors, but it is being added to the rights of rights. It is very important that it be presented in the discussion in which this will crystallize, the intertwinment between economic rights and moral rights that author law should maintain. What I would like to say about the laws discussed here is that in itself it is not bad. It's nice that we're holding a file, but it's important to realize that, according to the law and the sense of what's the rightful sea, it's not necessarily the same as the author. That's what I wanted to say. Otherwise, I'm glad we're finally about to introduce this order. It's just that.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u86	A respectable president. I recommend the Committee's Committee of Foreign Affairs as a basis for proposals for interpretation of the decision made by the Joint EEA on the Change of XIII. The addition of the EEA Convention, which is involved in transport operations and entering the contract of the European Commission Regulation No. 452/2014, technical requirements and management measures for air management. The committee discussed the matter and was contacted by the Department of State and the Ministry of State by Bryndís Kjartansdóttir and Rúnar Guðjónsson. This synonym provides permission to enter the EEA Treaty on technical requirements and management treatments relating to the third country flight control of a pilot into the EEA area. In this regard, a third - country flight driver's application procedure should be simpler and more efficient. Thus, the European Air Safety Agency, EASA, will be responsible for certification for those pilots who want service to fly into the EEA from a flying safety perspective. This service will be central to the EEA area, but in the past it would require the national airport authorities to perform an independent assessment of the national flight security. The state can still refuse such a request, but if the Air Security Agency withholds permission for flight, the state will not be able to go against it and authorize flights within the area. Thus, the change presented here is not in itself a change in nature. It is increasing the efficiency and simplicity of government work. EU Regulation No. In addition, 452/2014, which is proposed here to be included in the EEA Convention, includes more detailed guidelines for third-land flier pilots as operating in a third country or in Member States that have committed third state security monitoring. Already there have been changes to the law No. 60/1998, through the air travel, which will improve with the implementation of the Regulation through administrative instructions. It was added to regulations allowing Ministers to set up regulations to implement EU types relating to projects in the European Air Safety Agency, EASA, which are subject to the EASA institution Regulation and have been implemented in the EEA Convention. The implementation of the Regulation therefore does not require legal adjustments. The induction is expected to have a positive effect on management and to improve flight security. Hence, the Foreign Affairs Commission suggests that the proposal will be adopted and its names written under the circumstances. Senators Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, chairman of the Committee, signed Karl Garðarsson, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Sigurjónsson Sigrisson and Björn Gíslason. Hv. For the officers of Elín Hirst, Óttarr Proppé, and Össur the son of Skarphéðinsson, were absent from the case.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u87	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision made by the Joint EEA Committee No. 122/2015, about the change in XX. Annex to the EEA Convention. The Commission, as is repeated in these matters, discussed the matter and was present at his meeting Bryndís the Kjartansdóttir of State of State and the Ingvarsson of Environment and Resource, in this case. This proposal aims to confirm the determination of the joint EEA committee on the change to the Annex XX, as previously observed. The directive assumes a specific change, but its very limited impact on land, if any, will affect only one fuel station in the whole country. Induction of this Directive or 2nd Directive No. 2009/126/EC required conversion of chemical laws requiring improvement for the mandatory management of fuel stations to install a second degree steam storage device in fuel pumps. The Environment and Resource Minister has provided a bill for the implementation of this Directive at the 144th legislation Council adopted by the General Assembly as law No. 63/2015, about the conversion of chemical laws, which are now stored to improve as a result of this induction of 2014/99/EU Directive. This is why the induction does not call for law change, has already taken place, and is not expected to result in changes in administration or cost to the person leading to the above directive since 2009. So it was the Commission's evaluation to suggest that this form be approved and that the proposal be accepted as unchanged. Signed by the one here, Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, president of the Foreign Affairs Committee, and why. Councilmen Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Karl Garðarsson, Frosti Sigurjónsson and Björn Valur Gíslason. Other committees were not present when the matter was taken care of.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u88	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a proposal to be agreed on by the State Department's Committee on Council Reconfirmation of the Co-ordination of the European Commission No. 143/2015, about the change in II. An Annex including technical regulations, standards, testing and certification of the EEA Convention. As in other cases, the committee discussed the matter, and this time she was contacted by Bryndís Kjartansdóttir from the Ministry of State and Rúnar Guðjónsson from Internal Affairs. The proposal is now to consult the Generals' authority to confirm the determination of the joint EEA committee for a change in the state of II. An Annex to the 1992 EEA Convention, and to enter three types of the contract. It is first of all, a dignified president, the Council of the European Parliament on recognition and marketing control of motorized vehicles on two or three wheels and four bikes. Second, the Commission's Regulation from 2014 on improving the Commission's Regulation and the Council on vehicle safety requirements due to recognition of vehicles on two or three bikes and four bikes. Third, the Commission's Regulation from 2014 regarding improvements in European Parliament and Council Regulations on road construction requirements and general requirements due to recognition of vehicles on two or three bikes and four bikes. As usual, on the EEA Convention, a six month delay has been made to defuse administrative notice and was granted until mid December 2015. Therefore, the presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee to be in accordance with all rules and guidelines. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The primary change in these types and the primary objective is that the manufacturers now give up themselves, i.e. Manufacturers of the driving vehicles, the opportunity to handle the certification and fulfillment of documents relating to these vehicles. In some cases there should be a strict violation of a misbehavior. The European Union's Member States are thus required to set up its own legislation against such offenses. For this reason, a legal license is needed to introduce this type in Iceland. Sources of Regulations for the European Union No. 3/2014 and the European Union No. 44/2014 is set in accordance with Regulation No. 168/2013 and further updates on it. Regulation No. 3/2014 is presented with technical requirements for the L-class manufacturer and L-class testing, particles and separate technical units for them and their marketing monitors. Regulation No. 44/2014 is provided with technical requirements and methods for the testing of vehicle production and the general requirements for the controlled L-class motor vehicles. It also provides standards for technical services and assessments. L-class vehicles are for making motorcycles, three - wheeled trucks, and four - wheeled cars weighing less than 400 kg. The weight of an electric vehicle is determined by its weight without battery and three-wheeled vehicle that goes no faster than 45 miles/h. A respectable president. Induction of Regulation No. 168/2013 here on land calls for a change in traffic law No. 50/1987, with subsequent changes, due to certain guilt laws presented at 76rd. The type. Where regulations are dispensed No. 3/2014 and No. 44/2014 Further implementation of the First Regulation is improved to their induction not also in place. In this way the Minister of Ministers is expected to provide a bill for changing the above - mentioned legislation during the current council. The impact of the implementation of the species in this country is only indirect, since the types of vehicles that make up the species are not produced here on land. So the committee suggests that the proposal will be accepted. Under the opinion of Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, president of Foreign Affairs, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Karl Garðarsson, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Sigurjónsson Sigri Sigjonsson and Björn Gíslason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u89	V.E.G. President. I hereby recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the decision of the joint EEA no. 15/2015, as the president came in, about a change in II. Annex to the EEA Convention. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Ministry of State by Guðlín Steinsdóttir and the Department of Health at Stein's Office. This proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the determination of the joint EEA Committee for a change of II. Annexes to technical regulations, standards, testing and certification, to the EEA Convention since May 1992, and to implement the Commission's Regulation on Pharmacovigilance activities prior to the Commission Regulation and Council Regulation as well as to the European Parliament and Council Directive and the 2001 No. 83. As normally, we have six months off on the EEA Convention to defuse the controls in advance. He has been granted to be granted until August 25, 2015. The proposal is submitted by the Committee and after review by the Committee in accordance with Article 4. Conventional regulations on how to handle matters. In accordance with Directive 2001/83/EC of the CHMP, the CHMP of the medicinal products intended for human use was agreed with the Regulation No 37/2010: 1235/2010, which changed prior pharmacovigilance regulations, was laid the basis for increasing human health and implementing a population pharmacovigilance system that has become valid in the European Union on July 1, 2012. It is intended to increase, as I said before, human health, improve the effectiveness of the European pharmacovigilance system and increase the safety of drug distribution and use in the European Economic Area. Based on these measures, the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH) shall be obliged to maintain the basis for pharmacovigilance. European Commission Regulation No. The format, content and content of the core pharmacovigilance system, defined as the minimum requirements for quality of the conduct of the pharmacovigilance programme on the part of the Marketing Authorisation Holder (MAH), the National Competent Authority and the European Medicines Agency, for human resources management, monitoring for rules, document control, preservation of data and assessment. In addition, minimum requirements for monitoring of data are specified in a fixed database and the use of dictionaries, formats and standards, reporting of adverse reactions, Risk Management Plans, Safety Reports, Studies, etc. The procedures of the procedure further support the implementation of Regulation No. 1235/ 2010. Their induction required a change in medication, No. 93/1994, with subsequent changes made in the law No. 52 from July 8th, 2015. The change then made, a respectable president, will also improve before implementing the implementation of this protocol. 520/2012 with administrative instructions. The implementation of the procedure calls for this not changing the law. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Under it writes Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Björn Valur Gíslason, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Karl Garðarsson, Elín Hirst, and Frosti Sigurjónsson. Other committees were not present at the hearing at the hearing. Birgitta Jónsdóttir, an officer of Porta's office, said she agreed to this committee party.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u90	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal for a hearing from the National Affairs of State for confirmation of the decision made by the Joint EEA on the Change of XX. An Annex to the Environment on the EEA Convention. The Commission has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the Department of State by the National Affairs of Charles Bryndís and Kjartan Ingvarsson from the Environment and Resource Ministry. Using the proposal, the Council's sources are requested to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee from April 2015, the change to the EEA Convention and to enter the Convention of the European Parliament Directive and the 2014/52 Council from it in April 2014 on the change in assessment of effects made by the public or private bodies may be responsible for the environment. On October 30, 2015, a panel of six months off the EEA Convention to defuse the administrative notice. The presentation of the proposal is entirely in accordance with Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The 2014/52/EU directive is intended to simplify management and to facilitate assessment without reducing existing environmental rights protection as well as strengthening decision-making and environmental protection and harmonizing and streamlining rules. The directive changes the earlier directive for the definition of environmental assessments, the factors to be considered in the evaluation of environmental impact and the definition of maximum payoff time for decision-making, as well as other rules. Environmental assessment is defined as having a warrant. The management period for determining whether an environmental assessment should be carried out is defined as a maximum of 90 days. In that case, consultation with the general public should be a minimum of 30 days and the result of whose case is still valid when granting permission that should be clearer to the public than before. This gave special emphasis to those who were involved with the committee on the matter. Member States may also limit the time of the results and assessments they provide as part of the environmental assessment. If tasks have severe negative impact on the environment, the Agency will be required to minimise their impact, while monitoring is earlier carried out by the Member States itself. It is also aimed at ensuring the quality of the assessment report with the access of relevant specialists and in the setting of expertise in the administration of the competent authority. Assessment reports should be more accessible to the public than they have already been in the past, particularly in assessing the current state of the environment and options other than those available for which the proposal is available. V.E.G. President. The implementation of the directive calls for changes in the law of No. 106/2000, environmental assessment, with subsequent changes. Iceland must implement the directive no later than May 16, 2017. It is therefore assumed that the Environment and Resource Minister will provide a bill for changing the above laws in the autumn of 2016. As mentioned earlier, the committee proposes that the proposal be accepted. Under it writes Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Karl Garðarsson, Frosti Sigurjónsson, and Björn Gíslason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u91	A respectable president. I would like to recommend a proposal to be agreed on by the State Department's Committee on Council Reconfirmation of the Co-ordination of the European Commission No. 9/2015 on change of II. Annex to the EEA Convention. Guards it like the President of the Supreme Court. The introduction of technical regulations, standards, testing and certification. The committee has discussed the matter and has been Bryndís by the Ministry of State by the State and the Ministry of State by Bristís Kjartansdóttir and Rúnar Guðjónsson. The proposal is to consult the Council of Parliament to confirm the decision of the joint EEA from February 2015 on the changes to the EEA Convention to internalise the European Parliament Regulation and the Council on recognition and marketing monitoring for agriculture or forestry. Six months, like other such proposals, was allowed to defuse administrative notice until August 25, 2015. The presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. Protocol No. 167/2013 aims to strengthen the rules and to increase harmonisation with the phrases of the EB modeling machines, focusing on the guidance of security and environmental considerations. The protocol is considered a simple rule, so that there is no need constantly to update existing EU technical legislation, it is referred to international standards and rules available to the public. The Regulation recommends basic principles of safety, security at work, and eco-friendly and covers the EU Commission with the authority to support technical formulas in the forward-to-dates. Protocol No. 167/2013 comes from 1 January 2016, in place of the European Parliament directive and the Council's Council of May 2003, about the theory of deforestation or forest development, their waste, and their commercial, decompositional devices, and their systems, components and separate technologies, and its secondary forms. With the regulations discussed here, the current framework for repairing theories is replaced by the Community's formal teaching method, which is based on the principle of complete coordination, as well as with proper consideration for the viewpoints related to the cost of benefits with special emphasis on SMEs. The Regulation cancels all special directives, but instead they are made in the corresponding EU Commission directives for Europe, which have been approved or submitted to, and are being replaced by them. Implementation of the Regulation calls for changes in traffic laws, No. 50 of March 30, 1987, in which Member States are required to provide guiltys for manufacturers or operators who are guilty of violating points listed in 2 mg. 72. g. The Regulation. These are fractures such as presenting false statements that can lead to the induction of vehicles, the presenting of counterfeiting test results, and the keeping of technical information is secret or denied to deliver it. Internal Ministers are expected to provide a bill for changes in the above laws during the current council. Since the action is only reversed to tractor manufacturers, only indirect effects are expected here on land of the type's sentence. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Under it writes Hanna Kristjánsdóttir Kristjánnsdóttir, chairman of the Foreign Affairs Committee, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Silja Dögg Gunnarsdóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Sigurjónsson Sigursson, and Björn Valur Gíslason.
ParlaMint-IS_2015-11-17-35.u92	V.E.G. President. I would like to recommend a proposal for Congress resolution on the determination of the joint EEA Committee for a change of II. Annexes and projections, such as the highest. The President entered, technical regulations, standards, testing and certification at the EEA Convention. The committee has discussed the matter and has been contacted by the State Department of State and the Ministry of State by Kjartansdóttir Kjartandóttir and Rúnar Guðjónsson. This proposal requires a review of the Agency's sources to confirm the decision of the joint EEA committee from 25 February 2015 for a change in II. The Annex to the EEA Convention and to enter the Commission's Commission Commission Commission Commission Directive since April 2014 to establish a linking system for fireworks products under the European Parliament and Council Directive. As with other such proposals, on the EEA Treaty, a six month delay was made to lift control plans, provided for August 25, 2015. Therefore, the presentation of the proposal is considered by the Committee according to Article 4. Conventional Conventional Treatment of the EEA. The 2007/23/EC directive established the safety principles for fire fires and provided a basis for tracking them from the manufacturer to the user. By Directive 2014/58/EU, a registration system is set up as detailed in Directive 2007/23/EC for traceing fires from the manufacturer to the user. This is to increase the safety of users and the public by identifying manufacturers and immigrants of such products. In particular, fireworks should be marked with a registration number, included in the language of the state where they are placed in the market and are CE marked, as well as additional requirements for meaning. Witness caregivers are required to keep a record of all the fireworks they've tested and provided a CE label. The directive contains the information that needs to be included in the registry which needs to be minimally maintained for ten years, updated regularly, and made available on the web. The producers and importers are then made to keep a record of the records of the fires they produce or import, as well as their business names, species and site of manufacture, for at least ten years after launching the product. If they stop working, they will move files to the competent authorities. Finally, their obligation to provide details of their records to the competent authorities and the national competent authority of the market is required, following a reasoned request. Manufacturers have the expense and effort to keep files and marking products. The manufacturer in such an arrangement takes on the responsibility of the immigrants. In the United States, immigrants under current legislation are required to ensure that the measures provided here from the EU are marked and expressed in accordance with EU rules. A product derived from non-EU countries is also responsible for immigrants, such as current consumer trade laws, No. 48/2003, Code on Harmony, No. 25/1191 and Public Safety and Marketing Authorisation, No. 134/1995. The Commission further regulations on the implementation of Directive 2007/23/EC. Their introduction called for a change in weapons law, No. 16/1998, with subsequent changes made by law No. 77 of 9 July 2015. This change will also improve before implementing Commission 2014/58/EU with Regulation. The implementation of the protocol therefore does not require adjustment of the law. Effects from the introduction of the species here on land are negligible as no fires are produced here on land. The committee proposes that the proposal be accepted unchanged. Under it writes Hanna Birna Kristjánsdóttir, Director of Foreign Affairs, Elín Hirst, Vilhjálmur Bjarnason, Silja Gunnarsdóttir Gunsóttir, Karl Garðarsson, Sigurjónsson Sigursson, Valur Gíslason. Birgitta Jónsdóttir, Porta's lieutenant, expresses himself as an intertwined member of the committee. Other committees were not present.
